ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the legislative work, let me first announce to the House the updates of Friday 16 October 2020, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Chania of New Democracy Mr Manosou Voloudakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on "Border of the North Road Axis of Crete (BOAK)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 39/9-10-2020 by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingpoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Support measures for artists and workers in the field of culture". 3. The question by No 40/9-10-2020 from MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Development and Investment, entitled "Aid for operations in the midst of the pandemic". 4. The Question No 45/12-10-20, by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The necessary maintenance work at the swimming pool of Chania and the immediate reopening of the swimming pools." 5. The 30/5-10-2020 topical question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Olympic Real Estate in absolute dismantling and abandonment". 6. Under number 33/8-10-2020, a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Confirmation of a solution to chronic problems, when drafting the draft law, on the modernisation of spatial and urban legislation". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under number 53/12-10-2020, a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "A civil non-profit company manages funds from the Ministry for the operation of the National Museum of Contemporary Art EMST". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 44/12-10-20 by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The liquidity tools that are not available to small enterprises." 3. The question asked by MP B1's North Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Civil Protection, entitled "Increasing and inappropriate police violence against peaceful protesters". 4. The Question No 56/12-10-20, by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Annulment of the unfair and unjust and unjust exclusion of thousands of beneficiaries from the programmes of the Ministry of Development financed by the European Union concerning the strengthening of small and micro-enterprises'. 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, entitled "Avilly without an environmental impact assessment in the Egyptian Trikala due to "salamation". 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Stability of repression and asymmetric violence against citizens gathered at the celebration of democracy against the crime organisation Golden Dawn". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 October 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. Is there any objection in this key part of the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Of course the State Secretary, Mr. Tagaras, is present. Mr. Hatzidakis warned that because of a course he's stuck on the road. He'll be here. He's late, but we don't want to be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u4	At the same time, because it is Thursday, and after a debate we had with Mr Famello there may be another party roll-call vote, I would like to ask the parties, which are meant to be roll-call, sometime by noon, to have tabled it, to make it easier for the services to prepare the infinity of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u5	And from us he'll be testified.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u6	You didn't tell me, but, because I figured it out, that's why I said it, Mrs Manolakou. Depending on when and how many colleagues you will sign up, we will see how long the draft is to be debated and, by noon, you will know the possibility - up to a certain time - of the roll-call vote to arrange for everyone you intend to leave. That's all right. Mr. Famelos has asked for the floor. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, good morning. I have taken the floor on a point of order, and we want to raise an issue in plenary, which has also been discussed in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u8	Not in the Bureau. You mean the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u9	Yes, at the Conference of Presidents. Forgive me for the expression. Mr Hatzidakis informed us at the end of the fourth committee that there would be several amendments, which he summarily presented, and informed us that they were not ready and would be here later. It was discussed by other parties as well as by the Conference of Presidents. There, Mr President, the President of Parliament had taken us there to the point that, after communication that existed - obviously informal and which is not in practical terms - Mr Hatzidakis was finally only going to come on with the amendment on LARCO. Instead, I would inform the House and you that this proposal has not finally been complied with - an exhortation, which is in line with Parliament's rules, and we have 90 pages of amendments from the New Democracy. These include the sale of "DEDEFOP", the sale of "DEPA", the question of correcting electromobility, the question of correcting too many previous laws and, of course, the question of "LARCO". I think that at least we have to formulate Parliamentaryly that it is unacceptable that the practice of the Minister and the Government, after four committees, should bring essential issues without committee meetings, without bodies, in breach of the Code of Parliamentary Ethics. It is an insult to Parliament. You do it repeatedly. Mr President, we must protest to you too. It is inconsistent, and as far as we are concerned, the President of Parliament and we do not really know what to do with this government. He doesn't have sacred and loyal. You sell everything out of committees. This is unacceptable and we must put this in plenary. We do not know how to continue this meeting. You are launching a meeting on a substantial reform with a genuinely public-owned property sales back from the House and by violating a debate that we have had at the Conference of Presidents. This procedure is unacceptable, Mr President, and I have to put it before you. We do not really know how to react with this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Buquoore, you're the last one. You'll be closed. Mr. Loverdos has the floor, as I have seen now. I don't take it in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u14	Look, I am assured by Mr Arvanitides that what Mr Famelos said about the Minister's assurances in the committee is true. If it is true, there is a question of debauching Parliament. There is an issue of debauching Parliament for reasons which will be revealed during the debate. At the moment, I still cannot know why this instrument has been transferred by the Minister. We are, in fact, at a strange phase for the country, because of the pandemic, but we are not in a memorial phase to adapt our legislation to creditors' requirements, to the commitments of the country through the memoranda, which forced the ministers - I, too, have this experience - to bring amendments to many pages. Here, we are living in a situation where there are no urgent problems in this ministry, but the amendments, if I have heard Mr Famello correctly, concern pandemic. It is therefore an inappropriate anti-parliamentary problem and I do not know what else. I cannot accept the point made by my colleague on sales. I cannot accept it because so far, as many times as he has sworn it, the government stands up and brings him documents and says: 'You have done the same'. I'm hanging on. I'm looking forward to it. I want to see the amendments. Mr President, however, we call on the government to withdraw them. If he does not withdraw them all day long, instead of dealing with the issues raised by the draft law, in general and in particular, we will denounce the government for this conduct. Her behavior is suspicious. Get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u15	Mrs Manolakou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u16	At the end of the second reading, the prestigious Minister informed us of this amendment. He obviously knew her. This amendment is a separate energy bill, which incorporates into a bill incorporating a plastics directive. From the outset we have expressed the view that the plastics bill is an alibi in order to bring this amendment that speeds up the death of LARCO and workers' redundancies - which is why they are on the streets - and to pass it without any discussion. Because at the moment, we are talking about another bill that has not been invited by bodies, has not been discussed and within a few minutes we need to be placed. We also asked the Conference of Presidents not to accept the amendment. We are now asking for it to be withdrawn and come as a separate bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, we really mean it: if we're bothering, we should go. You don't need us. Do what you want on your own. I am not going to take part in this matter, nor in LARCO, nor in doing the good to the workers, nor at all. We're not for voting, really. But you don't respect us as we respect you. Mr President, it is not just today that it is saying 'plastic' and that it brings an amendment to the mountains for 'Larco', a huge issue. It came to us twenty - four hours ago Banking Code, the second opportunity with six hundred - four - four pages and two hundred - seventy - three articles. And now, at 10:00 we need to talk about this thing? Do you bring it twenty-four hours ago? What are you doing? If we're inconvenience, tell us not to come. Come on your own to legislate, vote for us to do our job and go to our districts. It's awesome. What are we doing in here? Is that a respect for parliamentarian? For God's sake! And it is not just LARCO. Bring a bill with a "plastic" wrapper and inside it has bombs. It's unbelievable. And you keep doing it. And it is neither the first nor the last time. You don't respect us. Respect is won, Mr. Colleagues and gentlemen of the government. That is the reality, Mr President. This is now being discussed. How can a parliamentarian go up and talk, suggest or buy in a bill of six hundred sixty - four pages and seventy - eight articles. Is that how you're gonna save the economy? So you're gonna sell Larco and everything else, what's there, the attendant? It is really a disgrace, Mr President. We are expressing our strong protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Gregoriadis is missing. Mr Arsenis, the speaker from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. It is impressive that these amendments come in a bill that had the opportunity to pass with relative consensus. This shows that there is really no government interest in this bill. Otherwise, how does it explain that it really blows up this climate of consensus, bringing so many amendments? LARCO is not a random industry. It is a key resource for nickel in Europe. A significant percentage of nickel is produced there. It is a very important industry. It has issues of environmental pollution in Evia and elsewhere. It has huge issues with what the government is preparing to do with the workers, as well as the other amendments. These are distinct issues of enormous importance. It's illegal not to go through consultation. It's illegal not to be heard by bodies. It is illegal to circumvent parliamentary procedures. And it's a suspect. We invite you to withdraw them. Come to discuss this bill and make improvements in order to pass - if you like - and with broad consensus. Otherwise, I am sorry, but this whole profile of Mr. Mitsotakis is a 'green Prime Minister' for ligniteification and for the reduction of plastics is crumbling today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, it is a characteristic feature of our Parliament when a political force is in the opposition to denounce the amendments, the legislative acts and, when it takes over the governance of the country, all these things must come unannounced, unannounced, in the last minute without any information. There is no doubt that the way of legislating is being discussed by the parliamentary world. And all views in the alpha or beta way have a right. However, I would say that it is good because the popular verdict fourteen months earlier remembers how it was legislating on very important issues. On the regulation, objectives and long-term and long-term regulation within the period when the assets are required to be used, to transfer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u23	We are not talking about the substance of the amendment, but about the procedure. Everyone didn't get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u24	Of course, Mr President. But you will allow me to say that the substance is often the one that defines the procedures. There's an emergency. We need to look at a few issues. After all, the amendment does not come to the end of the bill. There is, if not sufficient, enough time to study from the opposition parties. If the Minister, of course, told the committees that he would not bring any amendments, it is clear that he meant feasibility amendments and not necessary amendments regulating major issues. On the substance, and the sales and all of this, we believe that history in these types of businesses that leave a large print on the Greek taxpayer and many millions of losses has justified us. All the views heard are respected. But I think that in all such cases, our party has been justified in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u25	First of all, I would like to give a quick answer because it referred to Mr Heta. The draft law, Mr. Heta, was filed in the House on Monday night, and today is Thursday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u26	The invitation came Wednesday night, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u27	He came to the House on Monday night and today is Thursday. I'm saying it. The world isn't broken. That's not why we're gonna fight about it. From there on, as far as the objections you have are concerned, I must not make the position I have made in the Conference of Presidents, which at some point coincides with yours. Today, I chair. On behalf of the government, as soon as the Minister arrives, he will be informed and answered. I told you he was on his way. Just because of the steps that have been taken, it has been delayed. And at some point we'll all have to decide. Because those of us who are old in this Chamber don't tell me that this is the first time that this has happened. Those parties that have exercised power have done the same thing. Whether or not to be done is a matter. I agree with Mr. Loverdo. We have to see it and stop it sometime. We're starting with Mr. Katsaniotis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, one clarification. I raised a matter and why the matter was discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Femelle, I understand what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u30	I didn't just say about the process. You've been judging the process yourself. With regard to the fact that, in the Conference of Presidents, the President of the Parliament has transferred to us that no more will be tabled, only one for LARCO and the government is coming today and is violating what has been agreed, it is not only a matter of great concern to the Conference of Presidents. You are also insulting the functioning of the Conference of Presidents and all of us, not you, but the government that insists. Did Mr. Hatzidakis lie to Mr. Tasoula? He'll give it back to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Famelle, can you hear me? And you speak English well and I know English well and I understand what you said. That's why I said when the Minister comes over the complaints you made, he will be informed and answered. He just came in and will be briefed by the State Secretary of State what has been said so far. The first rapporteur will be able to come and the Minister will be able immediately after Mr Katsaniotis, if Mr Hatzidakis wishes, to answer you and I am sure he will reply. Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor. And I would ask that the electronic registration system be opened and closed as soon as the SYRIZA rapporteur Mr Mamulakis comes down from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing these days on the relevant committees of this House, and today we are recommending in plenary the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment on reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. This draft law on the environment has been tabled by the present Government at a time when societies and economies have been tested more than ever since the most serious health crisis in recent years. The consumption of sanitary materials is high. According to a Turin polytechnic survey, Italy needs about one billion masks and half a billion gloves every month. The WWF office in Italy has estimated that if only 1% of these masks are released uncontrollably and ends up in the natural environment, then it will create additional plastic pollution for forty tons of plastic a month. But even before the pandemic, data speak of thousands of tons of plastic that flood the Mediterranean. In Greece it is estimated that every year ten and a half thousand tonnes of plastics we consume come to the Greek seas. The main cause of the problem is overconsumption of disposable plastics, uncontrolled discharge of plastics, small recycling rates, poor collection and disposal of garbage bins. Each year it is estimated that we consume more than two billion plastic water bottles in Greece, more than three hundred million plastic glasses of coffee and refreshment and more than two billion plastic squid. In addition to this, we fly to Greece every year over twenty billion stings, many of which end up in the beaches and shores. Ladies and gentlemen, the House today presents a draft - a national reserve for the future of the environment in our country. For all of us, the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, for the Prime Minister, the response to the challenges of the next generation is a new model of behaviour for consumers, producers and businesses towards our planet. It is yet another important part of the country's environmental legislation. It incorporates effective national and Community rules to achieve our debt to the next generations, which are the protection of the natural wealth of our country with the main aim of combating plastic pollution. We are still implementing a central political commitment. It is not an opportunityal policy exercise, nor is it a green communication fireplace. This government, and especially as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has left the ecological footprint and has set too high on the pre-election agenda to protect the environment. Despite the pandemic, the process was started by the Ministry for a single-use Greece without plastics, and this bill becomes a state law. The bill aims at informing, raising awareness and changing the lifestyle of citizens and businesses. That is why, in addition to what the directive stipulates, we are taking national measures to send a clear environmental message that the environment in Greece is our national wealth. In particular, a contribution to plastic glasses and food containers is introduced 4 minutes plus VAT, corresponding to the environmental end of the plastic bag, from 1-1-2022. It is collected from the Green Fund and attributed to municipalities and regions for environmental protection actions. Measures shall be adopted for mass focus companies, such as the obligation to sell reusable alternative products to the consumer, as well as the obligation to deduct to the consumer who bears his reused glass or food container from 1-1-2022. The citizens will, however, also have incentives to recycle and reduce expenditure on disposable products. For each plastic bottle returned by the citizen back to the retail point, it is returned for participation in recycling, a specific amount of security per piece. Ladies and gentlemen, in our policy there are no longer the stereotypes that industry cannot be environmentally friendly. The environment and business can go together. Investment in the green economy needs the business world as an ally and not as an adversary. With this green bill, we are also helping industry. We promote her transition to the circular economy. We provide funding for the creation of innovative products and materials for sustainable business models. In the transition to the new era, the role of citizens, the plastic industry and the academic institutions of the country is important. In the past few days I visited the Department of Chemical Engineering in Patras, a department that works very closely with the plastics industry, a department where teachers, students and industry together are trying to find solutions for plastic more environmentally friendly, for products more user-friendly, for food packaging products, for plastic products in our greenhouses. It is a huge industry that if we manage to change it through research, we will have gained a great deal in both the country and industry and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, Directive 2019/904 aims primarily at dealing with marine pollution from plastic waste. At European level, the quantities of plastics result in the marine environment being calculated from 50 000 to 50 000 tonnes per year, burdening a coastal and marine environment. Thus the deterioration of the marine and coastal environment affects, in turn, basic economic activities such as shipping, fisheries and tourism. Apart from the effects on the economy, however, the environmental impacts of marine pollution from plastics also emerge in one of the dominant environmental problems with unknown size of the overall impact on life and the environment, especially in the light of long-term consequences. For example: Ingestion of plastics by marine species in 1997 was 27% of the observed species. In 2014, 44% of species recorded ingestion of plastics. You understand how much mortality grows. The growth rate of these kinds is at stake. And according to estimates in 2050, 99% of marine birds will have swallowed plastics. There is a trapping of marine life in the whole. Helicopters, seals, whales are involved in nets with consequences for their survival. We have balance disorder of local ecosystems and biodiversity, pollution of bottoms from plastic waste with adverse effects on aquatic organisms. With this bill we come to harness the path towards total ecological derailment. Circular product management is established where plastics are not discarded, but reprocessed, and the labelling of the composition of each product is important. Also important is the creation of'markets' for disposable plastic products, which expands economic activity and brings new jobs. The digital transformation of the domestic plastic manufacturing industry is necessary in order to increase their competitiveness through the maximum possible ecological transformation. We were accused of having such an important bill earlier than Europe. But our main aim was to prepare citizens and businesses better, to adapt to new data both the market and the consumer. We do this ten months before the law was formally implemented in July 2021 and the technical specifications will be added by the European Union until November. The State Secretary has already submitted to the last meeting of our committee and the roadmap for the implementation of the directive. It is seventy-five pages with a full guide to how the directive will be implemented when we have the technical specifications. Ladies and gentlemen, the reasons we have now brought the bill are specific: Firstly, to prepare for the industries better their transition to new production of products, to the machinery market and to protect thousands of jobs. The government is already drawing up a plan in cooperation with them to strengthen these businesses. We will exploit the NRP in order to motivate the industries that are adversely affected by the application of the directive to make the conversion of their production process. At the same time, we are introducing incentives for producers of plastics in the direction of increasing recycling. The more recycled content has their products as much as their compulsory contributions will be reduced to the extended producer’s liability system, in which they participate. The second reason is to inform consumers of the new reality. The citizens must be aware of the great change that comes with the abolition of certain disposable plastics, and that is why time is needed to make a targeted public information campaign. Already on May 30, four months before the deposit of the bill, the "Greece without plastic disposable" initiative was launched and this initiative will continue. Ladies and gentlemen, all the bodies were with us and a bill was drawn up with the agreement of the overwhelming majority of the bodies involved in a large consultation. At this point, I would also like to refer to strengthening local government to take steps to reduce plastics. The municipalities will exploit the special value and the only clean water we have in order to prevent citizens from buying plastic bottles. Public taps will be installed for free supply of drinking water to all public sports facilities and playgrounds to reduce on the one hand the cost to the citizen of excessive consumption of bottled water bottles and, on the other, the burden on the environment and, as I have already told you, on every plastic bottle, which the citizen returns to its retailers, are returned for its participation in the recycling of a specific amount of guarantee per piece. This is the system of return and guarantee, a system that exists in Europe. Finally, local government will be encouraged to build plastic deposition sites for the municipalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. With the proposed draft law, our country complies with the European Directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. This ensures the timely updating of the market and of the citizens and sets out important bases for combating marine pollution by plastics and promoting the objectives of the national maritime strategy. The provisions of the draft law shall include the following main axes: The first axis is to prohibit the placing on the market of 10 products from July 2021, such as cutlery, dishes, strawberry, fencing beverage containers, flax cups, filtration food containers, beverage reservoirs, batteries, balloon supports, all kinds of products of low quality plastics, oxidising plastics. This prohibition will apply to the public sector six months earlier. The public must show the way. The second axis is to reduce the consumption of two products, namely beverage cups and food containers, with a target of 30% by 2024 and 60% by 2026. In order to meet this requirement, as I have already said, the following measures are being adopted with effect from 1-1-2002: a 4-minute VAT on the consumption of these products, a requirement for reuse of alternative products in the mass catering industry and, in addition, the obligation to supply water to public taps free of charge. Third axis is the new design specifications for beverage containers and bottles, so that caps are attached to bottles from 2024 and bottles produced from recycled plastic by 25% in 2005 and 35% in 2030 and ensured through the European standard. Fourth axle is the separate collection of plastic bottles by at least 77% by 2025 and 90% by 2030. In order to achieve this objective, a universal Greek system of return of a guarantee to citizens for plastic bottles is created from 5-1-2023. Citizens will return to market points the plastic bottles for which they will be charged with a few minutes and receive additional money back. The amount of the security will be determined by studying the application of the system. Fifth axis is the creation of extended producer liability systems for new product groups such as tobacco, fishing gear and other eight product categories: beverages cups, food containers, beverages containers, packages, wrappings, thin transport bags, liquid scarves and balloons, to cover costs of collection, management and cleaning. The third axis is labelled for the environmental impact of products from 3-1-2021, as well as an extension of marking from 3-1-2022 for citizens to know which products are intended for reuse, recycling and composting. Seventh axis is the information and awareness programme for consumer information on reduction actions, the availability of reusable alternatives, the labelling and best management practices of plastic products covered by the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Catsaniotis, look at the clock across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u34	Yeah, I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u35	You asked for a minute and I've given you three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u36	In the context of the draft law, however, sanctions are imposed and apply to the following cases: Producers of products which have been prohibited or which do not meet the required specifications, objectives and designs or which do not bear appropriate environmental marking, as well as participation in alternative management systems, mass focus and retailers for the non-performance of the levy on plastic cups and food containers and for the non-reusable or alternative products, in alternative management systems for non-compliance with the provisions on extended producer responsibility. We must not stop trying to curb plastic waste. We have to be careful. After using not to be ashamed of going to the supermarket with our own bag - as we did - and on our walk with our own cup. Ladies and gentlemen, environmental degradation is already taking place with people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Catsaniotis, will you please finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u38	We must do everything possible to prevent the destruction of our planet. We owe it to our children. It must become a common vision of a wider business plan promoting innovation, which will reduce pressure on the environment and bridge the gap between innovation and the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Katsaniotis, I can't leave you any more. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u40	Sustainable development, economy and entrepreneurship with respect to the environment are not just words and announcements. It's a national need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u41	Minister, would you like to answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u42	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u43	Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u44	It is very interesting to invent some of the members of the counter-population, how they discover problems that do not exist. What are they denouncing us? That in the committee of Parliament during the second reading I said that an amendment would be tabled, I described its content and then proceeded to the statement. What are they telling us? They tell us that instead of tabling an amendment, as I said, two were tabled and they are also telling us - if I were correctly informed - that the amendments are almost a whole bill, that is, ninety pages. First of all, for all these rather fun to start by saying that obviously every government has the right to table amendments. These amendments, quite rightly or wrongly, do not have to be tabled to the committee. I have informed you - and I believe it was right - that colleagues should be prepared. Instead of acknowledging that the Minister has rushed to inform before the testimony, he is critical. Secondly, the Government has the right under the Rules of Procedure to table up to three amendments. We as a ministry finally testified two. And we tabled two, because it was legally decided that, instead of including all the issues in an amendment, it would be advisable to have a relevance on matters, on the one hand, the issues of demilitarisation, on the other hand, on the other hand, on all other issues. Thirdly, there are so many comments which, in fact, seem to me to have lost our contact with the numbering. I remeasured the pages of the amendments, it is four pages one, five pages the other. If I'm not mistaken - I'm not cheated on the arithmetic that I learned from primary school - four and five is nine. For you four and five is ninety. You put a zero on the back, and you reach ninety. Let us have discussions at another level, ladies and gentlemen. You add the recitals and all that we as a government now include in the tabling of bills and amendments all the specific reports, which are, however, not the body of the amendments. In addition to the fact that I informed the committee, as I did not have to do, we tabled our amendments in due course, except that the amendments are entirely relevant to the bill, except that we have amendments that are cumulative and both nine pages, we want to forget what has happened for many years in this House, but also to the days of the SYRIZA that today moves the finger and criticizes us. There were whole bills actually coming here, not just causal reports and reports of consequences - even then there were no reports of consequences - there were whole bills as amendments and you are criticising two amendments which are always daily practice! What is bothering you, that is, especially in these two amendments? Are you trying - let's say - to face your boredom, inventing any problems? I can't figure out what this conversation is. It's a surreal political conversation. There is always room for one to be surprised in life and this is confirmed today. In other words, it is not worth losing time in the Greek Parliament with such discussions. You are politically disturbed, you are politically disturbed about the content of the amendments. Very well. I do not know what an amendment is bothering you that provides for a simplification of the connection between renewable energy sources. I would also like you to vote against it! Do whatever you want, if you are in favour of bureaucracy in the connection of renewable energy sources. The other amendment is an amendment which expresses the government's policy, and it is for privatization. That's what we told the world, and that's what we're doing. We didn't say we were going to tear any memoirs, and then we're gonna do the opposite as you do. We are bringing about the privatisation of LARCO, the DEDEE and the infrastructures. And it is not on the basis of privatization, because we have announced these, we have already made arrangements for these amendments. Here are a number of procedural amendments, which are absolutely essential in order to proceed with an already proclaimed and voted by the Greek Parliament. What's that? It is indeed an absolutely incomprehensible and surreal opposition, which, of course, makes SYRIZA and all the others who are placed in the same way. That's not a government problem, it's your problem. Manage your problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u48	Irrespective of what is typically not predicted - but in any case - since I have already informed you that there have already been forty colleagues - to count the nominal after 20.00 at night - I will go back, beginning with Mr Arsenis for two minutes on what the Minister said. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the big question that has been raised here in this Chamber is whether you have committed yourself to the President of the Parliament that you will not table amendments other than the amendment on LARCO, because that is what has been transferred to the Bureau, to the Conference of Presidents. And that is obviously a big political issue. The second question is whether you mean that you are interested in reducing plastics, because it is obvious that with what you are doing you are blowing any climate of consensus in what you say you are interested in. So you give the impression strongly that all this profile you want to create in the Prime Minister, the 'green profile' for the reduction of plastics and liberation, is crumbling today in this Chamber. Is that the choice you make? Because that's the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u50	To prevent another Member from repeating this, I should like to inform him that I now have the minutes of the Conference of Presidents before me - that President Tassoulas said on the following point: 'As the Minister gave me the assurance by phone, it is not a bill. You haven't seen it..." - he says - "I haven't seen it either. It is about seven pages, but it is not a bill." In any case, this was telephone consultation with all the ambiguities that a short telephone consultation might have for a full picture. The difference is between the seven and nine, that is, the President said to him that the Minister, who obviously did not have it ready and nine, was indeed the pages which I have here. The main body of the amendment is four and five. I've got them here. The others are accompanying reports, which are the General Accounting Office and the others, and we go to the number ninety, but the amendments are four pages one and five pages the other. Now let's go to Mr. Heta. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I will not stay on counting the pages in fact and it is not the essence there. I return to Mr. Hatzidakis the ironic style. You speak to fellow Members, Mr Hatzidakis. For six minutes you were ironing. We are glad that you have fun with us, because you said "it's fun." It is shameful to say such things, to have fun with your colleagues. If you're having a good time in the Greek Parliament, having fun with us all! - it's a disgrace. As far as Larco is concerned, either an amendment or without an amendment, it is well known that you are an expert in such a business. You'll get it, you'll take it, PPC, P.T.A., everything to sell. There's no doubt about it. I am not going to stay on this, Mr President, but only in the ironic style of the Minister, as if he were talking to children in kindergarten and returning to irony and wishing him fun, if you have fun with us, Mr Hatzidakis. You speak to Members of the Greek Parliament. You ask for all of us and respect and you make observation and tell us that this is the Greek Parliament and you behave as if you were in a park if you were having fun with us. And get it back, please. It's not a fun climate here at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u53	The Minister's attitude is challenging. Funnyness and effort to entertain the whole picture are unacceptable. So, Minister, if you'll excuse me very much, are you joking at the agony of workers in Larco? Is that so simple? And you're a page browser? Is that the point? There is a specific issue here. You have brought it without having debated it on the substance, on the mosquitos, on this amendment, precisely so that you can stop the reactions. You are laughed if with these jokes you think that you will stop workers from "Larco" and hand over our country's mineral wealth to the interests they want to take advantage of him. Minister, it is very funny that you are pressing bureaucracy by presenting a gift to companies in renewable energy sources several million, in violation of the texts on placement of these wind parks and environmental protection measures. This is the bureaucracy you face: the gift to business groups for renewable energy. Otherwise, your jokes characterise the government's policy, which essentially serves the interests of business groups and sacrifices with the smile the needs of our workers and people. That is unacceptable, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Loverdos has the floor. Mr. Buquoir, don't raise your hand. I said the word would be given in turn. Would you like to join any other party? Oh, no. So stay where you are. Let's also say something to break the monotony!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u55	He is an excellent colleague and because we are living here, Mr President, he is not worth commenting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u56	He knows I've got a weakness for him! Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. Mr President, because the Minister was not here when our objections were lodged and our request to withdraw the amendments, the man replied with what he was told. I don't get it. But there are two issues, Mr Minister. First theme, you cannot compare this period to the period of the memorandum. Unfortunately, for my political course, I was Minister in three ministries during the time of memoranda, and I know what pressure we have brought to amendments here. Fortunately for us, you also ruled, and SYRIZA ruled. All the governments took these instruments, because the needs of the country were pressing, the lenders were pressing, and the agreement of the country that was going through with the Prime Minister was pressing, so that we could adjust, take the loan without great interest rates and leave the country from this crisis. Don't compare to that because that's what you're doing. You have to deal with the new problems arising from the pandemic itself from the recession. We understand. We have said, firstly, that there is no similar situation to that of the memorials and, secondly, you have not brought any amendment of another colleague to the pandemic. We'd understand you. What makes you go a week behind your legislative initiative, bring other provisions, nine pages, seven, five, one I tell you? What was not there ten days ago and there were these ten days to bring the amendment here and make us toys. We don't agree. First of all, there are opinions, criticism, sometimes reproach. The government will hear that. Do you consider them absurd? I want an explanation for that. What is the farce that has come up in the last ten days and forced you to come here unobtrusively and bring the amendment. I did not understand from your words that there was such a thing. If you're sloppy, Ministry, it's not the House's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u58	Mr Socrates Famelos, representative of SYRIZA, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I think we need to re-form the context of the debate, because I think Mr Hatzidakis has not understood what we are talking about. The first issue, Mr President, concerns you and all of us. The irony and the style of Mr Hatzidakis is challenging and unacceptable for parliamentary data. He must apologise to the House for the way he has addressed it. It underestimates the process and the history of this space. And he does that because he has another mission. Mr. Hatzidakis' mission is to sell out the public wealth and wealth of our country. There's no other mission and it doesn't stop in front of its implementation. The DNA at the heart of its irony shows that it does not respect neither Parliament nor the processes of democracy, because it is only its task to sell to a small elite, satisfying interests to the detriment of the interests of the country and ironing the House because it wants us to discuss these matters democratically and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, it is unacceptable that Mr Hatzidakis' irony and irony prove his weakness and his mission, his dark mission, which he hides behind communication fireworks already said by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. It's a fireplace you've got. But the mission is to sell. And you prove that, Mr Hatzidakis, and you now prove it publicly here. Mr President, the Conference of Presidents discussed the issue and told Mr Tasula that only Larco would come. We have all heard this through the Conference of Presidents and have also discussed it in the perimeter. Secondly, is it a matter for you to see the number of pages? Are or aren't ninety pages we have? Do you want us not to read the report from the General Accounting Office and the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u60	The body.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u61	The body. It's ninety pages. Good. But can we say a little what these amendments contain, which bear one? First of all, how will renewable energy stations be linked? Secondly, the extension of the right fee. Thirdly, the extension of tenders to the territory affected by 'Janus'. Fourth issue, the exemption of an environmental charge for electric motor vehicles. Fifth question, the procedure for placing environmental assessors. Sixth issue, the sale of 'LARCO'. Seventh issue, the sale of the "Supply of Infrastructures". Eighth question, the sale of the 'DENUE'. Ninth theme, the issues of the daily energy stock exchange. Is that a little bit? All of this is in these amendments. It is not just LARCO, if you want to talk about this. I don't know if I forgot one, 'cause I said it fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u62	But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u63	So, Mr President, the question that we raise and put in the institutions is as follows: in the Conference of Presidents, it has been committed or transferred to us that there will be only the issue of 'LARGO'. And that's a mistake, but it just had to come in. Mr. Hatzidakis carried incorrect information, or misinformation was transferred to us. It is unacceptable - I have told you at least nine seriously - to enter without the bodies, without the committees, from the back door. He obviously informed us in the fourth committee. And? This was done at the end of the day and did not give us the amendments which did not even come to this sitting on Thursday, but they came to Parliament on Monday. Do we forget that? Not even that day they were testified, just to see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Femmelle, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u65	I would like to close, Mr President, by saying this: Mr Hatzidakis, it is very easy to make political opposition to SYRIZA. In other words, you are telling us that this was done both in SYRIZA or in a New Democracy on a memorandum. Mr. Loverdos said something about the Memorandum Obligations. But I want to tell you something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u66	You won't say anything else. You don't have any more time. Finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u67	We're told by the press of the Pecha list, Mr. Hatzidakis, now we're going well. We're not going well and you're forced to bring amendments out of the window? Please tell us what's going on? What memorandum obliges you and you to bring amendments to the sale of public property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u68	First of all, I have read very clearly what the President of Parliament said. The word 'LARCO' only put it in the Communist Party at the Conference of Presidents. The President of Parliament did not say that the amendment would only be 'LARCO'. I read out of the Minutes what the President of Parliament said. The difference is two pages. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I imagine the Minister himself will then speak, because during the secondary years a dissatisfaction, aggressive and insulting speech has been made on the part of the Minister. And these are much worse elements than any humor is contained in the political speech and, in any case, shows some intelligence. But it is obvious that the attempt of anti-population parties to throw the ball in the platform, distort reality and create impressions. This is not a serious approach to issues such as the one we are discussing today and the environment, but also the contents of the amendments. First, you read us the Minutes. There is no undertaking from the Minister that he will bring an amendment. Secondly, the Minister has explained sufficiently and in every detail how these legislative initiatives have been taken and, indeed, a careful approach without exhausting the entire right of the government. He's also accused of that. And when we talk about the body of the amendments, we talk about the fishing industry, about the scarce, ladies and gentlemen, about the bills. And that is nine pages compared with seven pages, as the Minister has assured the Conference of Presidents. Why this conversation? Why this distortion? As regards the political aspect, Mr President, the Minister said very well and not for memorials that are torn apart by a law and an article, he said that for this privatisation policy the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy was democratically voted by a majority of the Greek people. It saves and well wants to join their policies that have not been justified. Our policies are right. How do we do it? Let us stop twisting reality in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u70	I will give the floor for three minutes to the Minister. This first cycle of controversy will be closed here, because I am sure that during the debate the subject of the amendments will be brought back to the vote, so that we can then move on to the rapporteurs. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u71	And now that I have heard them with my ears, Mr President, I still do not believe in my ears. I am still very keen on this original, so let me say, criticism which is being made and which is worthy of study for anyone who has been involved in the future with this short-lived procedural debate we are having. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that I am compared to the Memorandum. They're in the Minutes, check them out. I didn't compare to a memorial period. I said that this is another procedure dictated by the law on the final state, which also leads to all these multi-page reports and so on, and I said that everything is timely and all in accordance with Parliament's Rules of Procedure. However, I added that those who make criticism are those who were taking advantage of the practices of the past five years. That's what I said. I did not compare because these amendments and the procedure followed by SYRIZA are obviously not compared. I had no reason to compare. Comparing what? Something that is modern and European with something that was anachronistic obviously and opaque? I have no reason to compare. Secondly, I asked what was the reason why it imposed on us to bring the amendments. But I explained him to the committee. It wasn't you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u72	I've been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u73	All right, it was Mr. Arvanitides, but there's the Minutes, because here we keep doing the black white. I explained the content of the amendment, and I said that they are provisions which result from the course of privatisation and the need to regulate various issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u74	For ‘LARCO’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u75	And because you specifically served as Minister, excuse me, when you brought a bill, brought a bill, and you don't bring any amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u76	I was only a minister for memorial purposes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u77	If we accept this logic, I would ask you, Mr President, when the Rules of Procedure are reviewed, to take into account the views of colleagues and to ban the amendments. Because the ministers will have to predict everything when they table the bill and then cancel only within the Greek Parliament, unlike all the parliaments of the world, the procedure of the amendments. That is why there are amendments to deal with issues. Obviously. Is that something new? Is that something that should surprise anyone, what I'm saying now? Thirdly, I do not understand where this 'only LARCO' arises. I spoke to the committee, it was Mr. Arvanitides, Mr. Famelos, Mr. Arsenis, Mr. Tagaras, who took the Minutes of the House. It is precisely what has been tabled as the content of the amendments that I have presented. Let's find someone who says I didn't refer to a chapter or a matter. All issues one by one. What do you think? And why do you do this to yourself? What kind of opposition is that? And, in any case, to close, the questions are very simple. Did I or didn't I? I informed the committee. Have the amendments been tabled in due course? They've been filed. Are nine pages or ninety, as the Opposition says? It's nine pages. Is it different from what is going on in memorandum periods and so on in normal parliamentary debates? Is he different? Is this something different from what other ministries do now, ten years ago, twenty years ago, what happened last week, which will take place next week? We're doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u78	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u79	And the last thing I want to say is that all that remains as a point of disagreement, because the others are inventions and tricks, is the content of the amendments. Excuse me very much, we disagreed before the elections, people heard us, listened to you, voted for us. We too, unlike the SYRIZA who applied exactly the opposite of what he promised, are implementing the policy that we voted on. That's all and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u80	The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. That's too bad! I begin with this word because the government has really had a golden opportunity today in an emblematic bill in the sense of harmonising with a Community directive otherwise radically environmentally, to achieve the consensus which is essential for environmental issues. It seems for the Minister when the truth is not convenient for him, the worst for the truth. What happened today and also in committees last week, I think, does not honour parliamentary customs. I am referring to this because the famous amendments to which my colleagues have already referred are of a specific character and are in no way related, are not interlinked with the environmental bill, the draft law on the abolition of plastics in our country. No link to the bill has the sell-off of the "DADEE" which has not yet been legally shielded and voted, the sale of the "LARCO" that has been advanced by the process and no relationship has with this bill and the issues relating to the "DEPA" - and I stress - the "DEPA of Infrastructure", the dowry of the Greek State, the whole of the infrastructure of Athens, and the "DEPA of Thessaloniki" and, in any case, the entire infrastructure system and not the "DEPA of Trade" - we have discussed, we have analysed these issues in the past, I will not expand now - but I am sure that what is clear and crystal clear is that they have nothing to do with this bill. So it's the epitome of bad legacy and not just that. You know, many times the style counts in life and counts a lot, much more in this Chamber. I am speaking as a new Member of Parliament who has truly been amazed by the Minister, who has a long experience of parliament, with extensive and intense arrogance, with a style otherwise large, but suspected and curious for Parliament to behave in this way to a number of Members present in the Chamber a moment ago. I really do not want to extend to the present stage because the issue and the threat today is to discuss the draft law, to discuss the right of parliamentarians, which is, anyway, a Community directive, known as 904/2019, a Community directive which has been brought into force for days by the SYRIZA Government, which has matured. At ministerial level of the European Union, meetings have been held since 2018-2019 to reach today's vote. But let us say a little what has been done so far in the country at waste management planning level, because when we talk about plastic we all know that it is one of the most difficult waste management we have to deal with. We have been called in a number of years ago and, unfortunately, as a country other than the last few years, I cannot say that this attempt has been successful. The government of SYRIZA, however, has gone into radical and specific areas which first took place in the country. First and foremost the gospel on the environment and waste management, which is of course the National Waste Management Plan. It's an incision. The regions and local authorities, the local authorities, as the Commission says several times, have been called upon to implement the law. Because at this point, I would particularly like to raise this issue for my fellow Members, it is very important when we legislate and, in particular, for the environment to know who is the final recipient, to know who is to be called upon to carry out this very important project. It is the local society, local government, it is the state-of-the-art people, that is, the social partners themselves. We are, of course, legislating, but the question is what is going on at the base. Here there is a strong government-sponsored uncertainty. You have had fifteen months to prepare the ground for this sudden abolition of disposable plastic, which will take place in days. In interrupted days we will have an instant and sudden stop, complete stop at disposable plastic level, single used plastics known SUP, and production. And if we're not ready, then there's a huge risk of getting boomerang back otherwise in the philosophy and spirit of good bill. Good bill, however, is what has created the predictions so that we can have a good practical dimension in our everyday life in two days from today. I stress this in order to understand this in this House that it is something that we will soon find in front of us. And one would expect that there will be information campaigns, public awareness, local societies and bodies throughout this period. In fact, many of the bodies that will be called upon to take huge responsibility - for example, to remind us of the area of focus - are not at all aware at the moment and in two or three days' time, a huge amount of environmental obligations will be charged, but even urban ones. So, coming back to the facts, because it is good to compare measurable sizes: National Waste Management Plan, abolition of plastic bags. Even this directive is the work of the previous government or, in any case, it started from there. I want to pay particular attention to the need, and I say this really well to the Ministry, to be able to ferment and achieve the appropriate essays with the bodies, regions and municipalities, which, although most of them are blue, have strong complaints from this deficit of communication and cooperation. I say this as a former self-government I have a knowledge of. I think that the account of the greenest Prime Minister of Europe or, in any case, the attempt to create around Mr Mitsotakis, this environmental communication wrap, I think, is crumbling day after day, hour after hour, and not because they are intentions or not, but because there is no real faith around it, there is no real inspiration, a little bit, an appetite to do something that will actually achieve a green transition. In any case, there is no harmonized amendment, depending on this bill, which will be able to improve it in law. The amendments - once again I shall say - are heterogeneous and nothing to do with this environmental bill. Perhaps in some energy bill they could have a special label. Now, for the basic principles of the directive, I think it is very crucial to realise that the increased quantities of plastic in our country have actually sparked the problem. Even now, in the days that we are talking about, in the midst of the coronary crisis, you see how cumulative the quantities of masks accumulate, a very difficult waste. The mask has a combination of plastic and other elements that require standardization and, of course, very difficult management. So it's a dynamic situation. What does that mean? It means that simply legislating in a cold language without us being able to understand the individual difficulties of this legislation, then it creates conditions that are very insecure to achieve our goal itself. So hurry, particularly on the part of the government, without - we stress this - has previously created the right predictions and, above all, information, information and information. In an area where the rulers have otherwise given it all, namely the communication profile, to what the country really needs, to what the citizens really need, which is to inform us and our children about the management of the plastic and, more generally, the cyclical economy. We are talking about a circular economy, and at this point let me make a reference to a point in the new National Waste Management Plan, which is of the utmost nature of plastics and is no other than this famous subject of heat treatment, essentially burning, which it is doing? Before entering the technical conditions, the way in which the subject of the heat treatment or incineration of waste is violently reintroduced, you know that it is crumbling at the same time as all the efforts that have been made in previous years to achieve the culture change towards the cyclical economy of all of us have emerged. The linear, consumer model of "I get something, I use it, and I reject it" is a past. The attempt at a cyclical economy, to give our products a second chance, is something that we have built as a government in the past with concrete projects. This is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. We have run as many European programmes as possible, we have used as many weapons as possible in our patronage: 'URBAN' serious problems. ‘Urban Innovative Actions’ for plastic prevention, ‘HORIZON MED’, sustainable urban actions that through the top municipalities of the country ran for disposable plastics and plastic recycling even bioplastics. I am telling you in particular Crete, which was in line with its regional planning - the former of course of the SYRIZA Government - did a really great job with both the costs of the municipalities and the government, something that is absent from your planning. There have been many things in the right direction. That is something I cannot endorse, because that is where the difference in attitude, perception and politics seems to be. So, then, the culture of reuse and a circular economy by knowing that we will always have the easy solution of a combustion plant next to us, you know it's falling apart. And it collapses because, at the beginning, the waste incineration casing, but later, 'what's the point, will each citizen think, 'to recycle, to operate with the norms of the circular economy when I've cared for a mass burn factory, which is a whole burning plant?' Let us say some examples of disposable plastics and the directive. We have also told the committees that there is no guideline at the moment, even now that we are discussing what constitutes a disposable plastic. In order for everyone here in the Chamber to understand this, it is, for example, what many of us get coffee during the day. It is essentially paper base, paper frame with plastic thin sheet thin. This, for example, is not known either by the Commission itself or, in any case, has yet to determine whether it is paper, plastic or something hybrid in between. So it is very important to know the directives. And what are we doing here? We are legislating without the guidelines. The notion was meant! Well, in terms of strategic communication I think that this too is very important. We have a end-deadline for its application in two days from today and the news campaigns are still far away. As far as the design of plastic recycling is concerned, it is very important that when you move into a rational legacy of stopping the creation of disposable plastics, you be able to have the foundations for regenerating plastics, motivate local society, the productive fabric of the country so that those who are involved in the plastic market can have a chance, a second chance through funding and targeted actions, and not a sudden death. As regards the introduction of a fee, the Government introduces it to reduce the consumption of disposable plastics. At this point, of course, I am invasive to say how important the effort was, with at least exceptional results by 2018, which we had as a government by abolishing the thin plastic bag, excellent results based on measurements and data, which we have now also asked for in the committee, but we do not have. Because without data, without information, how is it possible to evaluate, measure and possibly change your policy along the way? It's very critical. We have also referred to the committees, and I would stress that. The question of public fountains has already been referred to by my fellow Member, namely the element of drinking water in many public areas, public areas, where, when you really want to dilute the quantities of plastics through bottled bottling, you must give a great deal of generosity to such liquids of drinking water. He said how important this is. Do you know that 22% of the country doesn't have access to drinking water? The city of Heraklion, the fourth city in the country, has no drinking water. What are you guys talking about? With what logic? And most importantly: if there were any, we all know that this requires a spatial approach, a study of maturation, construction, management, operation, maintenance. Who will do this and most of all, with what resources? This logic of handing over responsibilities without before I have made provision for me to shield myself through resources from the one who will be called upon to take up this responsibility, with what this implies, is criminal and that must be stopped. Finally, they must come out of the ministry's housing, understand what is happening in local society, a society, a local government that we have seen and recently with the draft budget that its resources are being cut by EUR 265 million. In other words, we have a sudden reduction in resources and are constantly increasing the obligations on which it is called upon to harmonize. So we have a clear conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, to the effect that the government does not really believe in this visionary, otherwise, bill that is in line with the Community directive. Because, if he believed, he would have predicted, he would have done so accordingly. Finally, I would like to say this. We all know that this place, this country, this land we have not inherited from our parents. We've borrowed it from our children, and that's very important, thinking about this logic to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u82	Prepare the Step. Close the record system. As the services inform me, you have registered about fifty colleagues. The exact number I'll tell you in a while, but there it is. By making a clipboard calculation, I think we can agree that at the latest at 22.00" the vote should be taken and, if necessary, that, in order for you all to speak, seven minutes to be reduced by what, but we will see it along the way. We're talking about the denomination, because the rapporteurs and the services for the other articles will be here by midnight. 22.00' is for everyone we vote and we're leaving. For the others who stay behind, it's not 22:00. So don't say 'go over it'. And so I did! The Step is ready. Mr Georgios Arvanitides, a special speaker from the Change Movement, is therefore invited to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm impressed with the way you handle things. If you wish to arithmetic 1989-1990, I can tell you that the bill has twenty articles, and you have brought amendments with nine other articles, so half of the bill, in order to approximate numbers. Of course, this tactic isn't the first time you've done it. If you've done it for the first time, I think you could understand it, but you're a friendly tactic in every bill, and that's what it's said - if you have to be described - regularism. Because what you bring with an amendment is downgrading to Parliament's debate time, firstly. Secondly, you are avoiding consultation where not only the parties are placed, but the institutions and people to whom it relates are placed. Thirdly, the debate in the committee is not taking place, not all sides are being told. That's democracy, that's the point. I am therefore impressed that you are exemplified, as if we do not understand the way in which you are trying to avoid the problems that your policy creates. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation requires that I begin with a reference to the European Council, which is taking place today in Brussels and which is of particular interest for two reasons. Firstly, because substantial sanctions must finally be put in place for Turkey, which should already be on the table and which can only be imposed by a decision of the Council of Foreign Ministers. Unfortunately, under the responsibility of the government, this still remains in the sphere of consultation and not of acts, so that the European Council does not have the issue of Turkey's political behaviour on the agenda. Secondly, the current European Council has a special, 'green' interest, because the leaders of the European Union will discuss the Union's climate targets and the progress made in achieving climate neutrality for 2050. And, indeed, this is two days before the UN communication, which highlights the failure of political leaders internationally to stop turning the planet into a dwelling hell for millions of people. The UN, on the occasion of last year's World Natural Disaster Reduction Day, sounded not just a bell but a regular bell for climate change. And, of course, the bell also concerns Greece. That is why we, in the debate on the preliminary draft budget yesterday, called for horizontal integration in both the budget and every government's policy on climate change, with better planning and more effective coordination. And that, because we are seeing all around us more frequently and with greater intensity the catastrophic consequences of climate change. At the same wavelengths we call on the government to formulate a more ambitious national climate policy and to introduce climate change legislation, with a 65% reduction in emissions by 2030. I now come to the draft legislation incorporating a European directive 2019/904 on the withdrawal of disposable plastics. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had to summarise the position of the Change Movement and the messages we want to emit, in voting in favour of this bill, I would say this. We want to reduce plastic pollution and we want support for businesses to find accessible and environmentally friendly substitute materials and products. With more than 80% of the marine waste being plastic and the Earth's bottoms filled with about fourteen million tonnes of plastic, the marine ecosystem and the human food chain are in great danger. The Change Movement has been positive from the outset and we have forced the relevant directive to be incorporated in time, so that both the public and the private sector and the citizens can adapt and prepare better for these very important changes that come to our daily lives. However, the question remains: What will replace disposable plastics and what impact will this choice have on the economy, society and the environment? It is not only enough to stop a very bad practice and habit by legislating incentives, counter-incentives and bans. We need to make sure and convince citizens that the new practices and practices that we propose as alternatives will be accessible and at least have a smaller environmental footprint. At the Change Movement we focused our criticism and our counter-proposals for demolition in Greece in eight main points, calling for the first emphasis to be placed on reducing and reuse of plastics. On the "reduction-reuse-recycling", the first two arms are more important. Secondly, the possibility should be explored so that all activities related to prevention, reuse, recycling and composting are put at lower scales of VAT on the basis of environmental and social criteria. Thirdly, provision should be made for urban regulation for a separate collection of materials and articles and for plastics within the limits of each building, in a separate housing area, in addition to exploring other charging methodologies and not only to the cost per piece, which do not take into account the collective environmental burden of each plastic product, and this is because the methodology, but also the objectives set, raise a great deal of discussion about their effectiveness, such as the end of the four minutes per piece, which is disproportionate to the value of each product. This approach by piece underestimates the actual environmental burden of each product. It seems that a general horizontal rule of four minutes per piece is imposed on the ground that it is for the sake of equality and that the YEN does not bother to see more thoroughly which plastic products at the end of their life cycle are more burdening on the environment to impose a more proportionate burden. Fifthly, there are no distortions in the market by promoting monopolies. It is a word which I do not think is as friendly as you in alternative plastic management systems and that the issue of creating one or more such systems as we pointed out in the regulations referred to in Article 13 is open. Sixthly, to give priority to the transition to the cyclical economy of plastic-producing enterprises with the financing of new infrastructure and investment to create new products and not to lead to closure. This sector, Minister, should be supported in order to adapt properly, meet new standards and be able to offer new alternative products. Besides, the plastic industry in Greece, but also worldwide, has itself admitted that there is a matter of plastic pollution. Seventhly, the information and awareness of citizens must be better organized to reduce the use of plastics, which must of course be started by schools. There should be better and greater cooperation between the Ministries of Education, the Environment and Development with local authorities and environmental organisations. The regulations of the bill, Mr Minister, are inferior to the requirements and circumstances and the choice will be ineffective to leave the responsibility for implementing measures to inform and raise citizens' awareness of the reduction of the use of plastic only in alternative management systems and the Greek Recycling Organization. Finally, eighth and eighth, for the proper measure of the compulsory construction of shared taps with drinking water in the municipalities, Minister, let us ensure drinking water first in all the settlements in the country. I will bring you the example of eight thousand inhabitants, fifteen kilometers from Thessaloniki, the Kymins and Malgaras that if the mayor goes to put taps, they will laugh, because even the water they use for their individual hygiene needs is plastic. So the mayor's going to put taps. Still in 2020 in many parts of Greece they do not have access to drinking water and I have not seen any initiatives, no plans, no funding to finish these issues at last. As well as the amounts going to the LAGs should remain exclusively for measures to combat plastic pollution. As in accounting, not all data and data of the alternative management collective systems should be checked. All measures should also be monitored at regular intervals by continuous evaluation and measurement. As will be a review of the ESDP, Minister, because there are new data and new targets still need to be set for 2030. So the key to the success of this bill will be to find and establish operational, accessible alternative practices for citizens. And this is where your ministry will really be judged. In this context, we urge you, Mr Minister, to adopt, even then, our proposals so that there is greater effectiveness in the common objective of reducing plastic pollution. The challenges are great. And this incorporation of the European directive is only the beginning of the fight against plastic pollution. So the road that has been drawn up by our small islands with their initiatives such as Sikinos, Donusa, Alonissos must become the avenue to reach a more rapid reduction in the environmental burden of plastics in our ecosystem and not just to have a horizontal economic burden, assuming that we have solved the problem or another bill which simply serves the green account of the government. So, here somewhere, we should have finished with the bill. The Minister does not leave us because he testifies. It takes initiatives in general terms on market regulation and has tabled the two amendments, but I say nine articles. Mr Minister, the criticism you are being made is because, as I have said, this is not the first time you have done. It is your dear tactic and here at Step, every time, we start our placements precisely because you choose such tactics. You are bringing arrangements on important energy issues to amendments. And while the political sewers - which you are watching are already causing great market side effects and I list some of the side effects you have already brought, side effects that lead us to the optimistic scenarios and narratives of the government in the deadlocks of the real economy. For example, the huge deficit you have created in the EIA special account, with the result that the RES market is at risk. In ELEPE you followed your favorite tactics to fly the ball elsewhere and create crimes and debts to others. It is well known that a huge deficit has been created in ELAP due to the government's lowering of EMEPAR in September because you wanted to balance increases in PPC's tariffs. You were trying, as you were saying, to save PPC. Of course with communication tricks and now you are thinking of charging this effort to investors by differentiating market rules, the stable rules that you consider them to be a prerequisite for the country to go ahead with growth on a net basis. You reduced the EMCDDA last year without any opinion from RAE and the opinions of the other bodies. At the same time, you increased PPC's tariffs in order to increase its profitability and to be able to speak today of a success story, while PPC is delaying the performance of the EMCDDA and has come to owe ELAP three hundred eighty million today. But ELA must be a public body. Are these the rules you promised us with the state that you would follow? Because the other behavior, referring to the opponents, is the one that brought us here that brought us. Isn't that what we're supposed to change in the country? What, should we have an alibi, because the previous ones, the former ones or the next will have the same arguments? This means new adventures following the project that SYRIZA had unfortunately started two years ago, as it had stopped charging the supplier, ELAP had lost this revenue too. Recently official studies of the PV-producer Association, the SEE, prove that the pandemic for the ERA deficit has not played a part, but the reduction of the EMEMPAR that you did, Minister. What do you respond to this documented degradation of last year's energy? Unfortunately, you have, in our view, put the RES industry in adventures while it is more necessary than ever. Example two. You have brought a huge turbulence to the real estate market and only on your initiative to consult the spatial planning bill. Do you know what's going on, Minister, today at the banks? With the possible write-down of the value of agricultural parcels, which cannot be built in two years' time, banks consider that the guarantees of those agricultural parcels they hold for borrowings they have and ask these people to either build them in two years' time if they can or can bear other guarantees. Stop these initiatives. Stop these behaviours of the banks if you really want to achieve clear rules and promote the development of the country. As you must intervene as I said immediately to stop this new blackmail to the owners of the banks. As, of course, you must also speak to Imathia, where citizens are faced with public claims on the Risoma farm, for which I have asked you a question, which I am still waiting for an answer. The third example of side effects. It was in your knowledge the unreasonable article 47 in the recent bill on what municipalities could do using the end of RES, taking this money to use it for another reason. You withdrew it. We're happy. But can we constantly change the rules and seek from local societies to formulate consensus in order to move forward the issues of RES investment? Nor do I understand why you deny the fee that we have proposed to you, the fees for the municipalities, its arrival for the municipalities of mining activities. As you also refuse to rethink the role of networks in the new energy landscape, especially after the experience of the pandemic. In essence, with your responsibilities under Amendment No 512, the privatisation of the 'TEN', 'DEN' and 'LARCO' is speeding up the privatisation of the 'LARCO'. Your choice. You'll be judged for that. We continue to say that we want the public to have the first say, and for the networks relating to public goods, such as energy, because they were made, built with the Greek people's money and it is the property of the Greek people, who cannot dismiss his right. To have a say in how they will be projected, with what synergies, with what work. It is his choice, but it cannot be that the Greek people have no say in these networks. So we do not share your ideological obsession with these privatizations. These privatisations will be economical and nationally inconsistent in our view. We have repeatedly spoken about the need to democratise energy and the need to promote decentralised production and storage of RES by citizens. And what we are seeing today in your amendment is that, unfortunately, the energy transition is done on old terms and outdated perceptions. We're hitting the alarm bell once more. You need to change watch, correct course on many energy and environmental issues. You must stop the policy of'seeing and doing' with a view to temporary communication. All of this is inconvenience to the market for citizens. I shall, of course, speak more thoroughly when I take the floor for the amendments. So stop, Minister, the old recipes before they are too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u84	Come and prepare the Step, please. Until you clean it up, I give the floor for two, three minutes to the State Secretary, Mr Zavvos, who wants to make a clarification on a tabled ministerial amendment. Mr. Zabwe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very briefly like to support the amendment by the Ministry of Finance on the interpretation of Article 4 of Law 4557/2018. As you recall, a few days before the adoption of the fifth Community directive on laundry by amending Law 4557/2018, that is to say, when we discussed on 6 October, then responding to the request of the President of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority, as presented in a memorandum to the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, we extended and tightened the scope of the main offences, taking into account the new Criminal Code. In particular, by adopting the proposed wording of the laundering principle, we predicted that the main offences of Law 4557/2018 include all offences from which there is an advantage and that they carry out imprisonment and not just a custodial sentence of more than six months. However, it is necessary to clarify the meaning of Article 4 of Law 4557/2018, in order to remove any questioning that all offences of a criminal nature, including offences of a malicious nature, are included within the scope of that provision. In our interpretative provision, it is clear that the main offences of n. 4557/2018 shall include all offences resulting from an asset benefit and shall carry at least a prison sentence. It is clear that the purpose of the legislature - after all, we have discussed it here - is to cover all offences for which a custodial sentence is provided for in the sense of imprisonment or imprisonment, without any possibility of escaping from the regulatory scope of the provision. Any other interpretation - you understand - would give rise to unauthorised evaluative objections and lead to the paradoxical effect of its application only on offences of a delinquent nature, with the exception of the most serious felony of criminal offences, which in no case arises from the ratio of the provision. This is confirmed not only by the submitted memorandum from the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority to the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs in the Greek Parliament, but also by the minutes of the debate before you on the provision that we had here in plenary. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of it, demonstrating the firm commitment of this House to increasing transparency in the fight against money laundering in our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u86	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u87	At this time, there is a great demonstration of pupils, teachers, parents, students, public strikers claiming health safety measures because of their pandemic and their rights. And yet, the authoritarian catapult of the government has no bottom. They are offended and terrified even by physical checks to reach the Propylaean protesters and students. The subway station's closed. It's unacceptable. It's a disgrace. Terrorism won't pass. On the contrary, it's bleaching. I come to the bill and the amendments, starting with the LARCO. Why did we put what it has to go to a separate energy bill? Because the content has nothing to do with what we're talking about. We also wanted representatives of workers and other bodies to be invited. You are telling us, Minister, that you have informed us. You informed us, but you strangled the conversation. It's a practice of yours and the past. You're competing with each other. But you do not want it to be heard that the thousands of five hundred workers will be found on the road and areas that are to be devastated. Of course, you do not want to have a debate on LARCO so that the possibilities of production are not heard and how they can be exploited for growth in terms of the people. Neither you nor SYRIZA and the Change Movement do you want to reveal your time-consuming responsibilities. You have contributed to its depreciation in its dismantling plan, by stepping up, step by step, the directions of the European Union, which, of course, also fines, just to put European monopolies more easily into the wealth of LARCO, in the wealth of Greece. No one speaks of this wealth. LARCO is a real gold mine. We have also proved this within the House in the amendment tabled by our parliamentary group on the full operation and development of the company and on the protection of workers who can be employed. At the same time, it is passive proof that our country has huge productive potential, mineral wealth, a skilled workforce. You rejected the JRC's amendment without debate. It was expected. And yet this company is the only company in the European Union that produces iron and steel through processing its own domestic ore. Our country has 90% of the registered nickel deposits throughout the European Union. These ores because they are cobalts are difficult to find worldwide. We have chromium deposits that together with nickel create stainless steel, a product of huge value that is used in many applications and is currently imported into our country. Many possibilities exist even for the use of thousands of cubic hot water per hour by the process of district heating. And a number of other possibilities are being opened. This company, with these great opportunities, the government as a follow-up to the previous ones wants to get rid of it, of course, with the workers. That's why he's cutting it to dive it, considering that it's going to be more attractive to big capital. And now, with this amendment, you are speeding up the procedures. And as usual you distort reality by slandering even workers. LARCO is a strategic operation. Most of it belongs to the Greek state and you give it to the teeth of business interests without any commitment to the fate of the workers. And at a time when the value of nickel and cobalt in the car industry is expected to bring enormous profits to those who own them and exploit them. That is why the JRC unites its voice with the employees of LARCO in their fair fight against the solvent plan and redundancies. And we call on the Greek people to express their solidarity for the modernisation and development of LARCO with state funding, measures for its full operation, protection of all employees in the company and their rights. At the same time, we are applying for a roll-call vote, but also for the Minutes, we are giving an announcement from the Miners' Federation expressed and analysed the value of this operation. [[At this point Mr Diamanto Manolakou presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the bill is concerned, it is essentially incorporation of the European Community Directive on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. This directive was not created by the need to protect public health and the environment. Just the biggest importer of plastic waste, China, in 2017, announces its new policy called "national sword", and gradually stopped importing plastic waste. Up to that time China has been the centre of the global recycling market, constantly introducing huge amounts from every corner of the world and exploiting them as a raw material in its industry. In fact, growing demand has pushed recycling in the western hemisphere, which has emerged into a profitable business for large groups and has been widely supported by the state and us, with the encouragement of recycling, with the decisive involvement of the municipalities. I'm talking about blue bins. After China's change of policy, the European Union launches a campaign to ban the use of plastic products and most of them are normally imported from China. The reason for the creation of the European directive is therefore not to lose ground in the trade war between them, since Chinese monopolies have stopped buying from Europe plastics for recycling. Well, then, the European Union is closing its market in Chinese plastic products and this shows us that there is supposedly an interest in the environment. You are therefore coordinating in this direction. You are presenting us as a major problem, in our view, the serious risk to marine ecosystems, biodiversity and human health, but selectively only this category of special plastic waste contained in the European directive. And we say in advance, because there is no reference to the number one dangerous enemy of marine ecosystems in terms of dispersal of plastic waste, which is small and large logistics. Once again, his environmental effects are unavoidable. There is deliberate selectivity. At the same time, only the logic of individual responsibility is deliberately cultivated. The only factor that can, in fact, contribute to speeding up some climate change is the activities of monopolistic groups itself. So it is provocative for the pollution of the sea to mark the coffee caps and straws and to take the foam a responsible, logistical and industrial capital into the foam. The figures themselves say that ninety large groups are responsible for two thirds of global exhaust emissions. Twenty monopolies are responsible for 35% of global carbon emissions. Ten countries produce 72% of carbon dioxide pollution. And the energy monopolies "EXXON MOBIL", BP, SHELL and TOTAL advertise their green programmes, while at the same time making up the largest polluters. But also in our country, in Drapetsona, oil waste treatment industry throws waste water right into the sea. This decision also contributed to the positive opinion of the Ministry of Shipping, which is supposed to protect the marine environment and the Ministry of the Environment, has obviously agreed. I am referring to this, because there are findings of studies from the Research Centre 'Democritus' and the Observatory, which demonstrate the polluting effect of this company on the atmosphere and now extend to the sea. Similar situations and protests we have from institutions in Keratsini, Perama, Thessaloniki, Aspropyrgos for ELPE. Also, action is taken by the PPA, i.e. COSCO in the Piera, which creates a pier for cruise ships that could make it elsewhere, but that is where it is of interest. But that's how it is, in the face of the profit, what are the needs of the people's strata? They're being trampled. The scope of the draft law does not concern all plastic products, only some single use which are the main target of which are the oxidising agents. We distinguish them because there was a need to abolish them for environmental reasons. It appeared before 2010 from scientific work. Indeed, the size of pollution caused by Greece is truly shocking. The emergence of such issues by global research is not relevant to competition between business groups that are constrained for larger market shares in the production and sale of plastic raw materials, to replace it with other innovative ones or even to the profits from the use of plastic after the product has been expelled. After all, what prevails in all the investigations is the individual responsibility of the consumer, choose other materials than plastic and take care of himself for its safe recycling or destruction after use. However, another type of plastic money with significant effects that are not discussed is the plastic microfibre derived from the erosion of synthetic fabrics. The problem is so extensive. According to a study in 80% of the samples of drinking water tested worldwide, microfilms were found. Although these are known before 2010, they did not go any further because there were reactions from the monopolies of the industry and, above all, Britain, and so the removal of the occult plastics was delayed. Only with the satisfactory time-consuming return on the investments concerned with the expected profit is now allowed by the European Union to establish their abolition. But also the disposable plastic products and the supposed responsibility of the producer eventually ending up? In an expanded charm at the expense of the populace, since there are arrangements for a category of such products that are available as a food and beverage packaging when they are sold by catering businesses, as well as retailers. Finally, they end up in a tax-spiriting mechanism at the expense of the people's strata as consumers. It is the 4,96 minutes per piece, separately the cup, separate the cap, the straw on a case-by-case basis or they are identified. At the same time there is an extension of the environmental contribution in favour of the Green Fund, which SYRIZA also imposed on plastic bags. You have the same path as you do in privatisation and in LARCO. But here I would like to say that you are showing a hurry in the application areas without being clear about what will be replaced, unless you have some information about a big company that is already ready to fill the gap and, of course, to make crazy profits, since it will at least monopolize for a period of time the needs that will be created in the area. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] At the same time, they circulate paper glasses enriched with plastic, which occupy a significant market share. And what does that look like? That, ultimately, public health protection and environmental protection are being used as an alibi. Environmental hypocrisy prevails for profit and only for profit. The JRC is therefore confirmed when it says that the framework of the 'green' economy, which is a dominant urban line at global level, is the new profitable way out for the development of the global capitalist economy. So plastic waste is also treated as an opportunity to expand their profitability and create an accelerated pace for new 'green' capitalist enterprises, whether to recycle plastics or to gain from new ecological products. Finally, capitalist growth, capitalist profit and environmental protection are incompatible. There can be no capitalist development and 'green' investments that respect the environment. They're not going together. Sustainable for the people of development cannot secure the state of capital and its governments. Integrated environmental protection and management, including waste management for the benefit of the people, presupposes a abolition of the power of monopolies, because human needs will then be abolished. In this sense we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Please prepare the Step and call the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to introductoryly say to my fellow Parliamentary spokesman of KINAL - unfortunately, he is not present - of PASOK, which led Greece to the IMF by embezzling the 2009 elections with 'the money', accusing the Greeks at the same time as corrupt, who signed the PSI by empowering foreigners to dominate our national sovereignty, the first, second and third Memorandum, thereby condemning us in the worst form of bankruptcy that exists, in the rolling, international, that his accusations against us about dark circles because we have always been in favour of the lifting of immunity of MPs, are at least unwise. It is incomprehensible that Members should be treated as all citizens without any special privilege. As far as his statements on the existence of a Turkish minority in Thrace are concerned, they are unacceptable and dangerous. So we think it should be repacked, thanking him in advance, of course, since there is no minority but Greek Muslims in the religion. On this issue we will now have to start from the two amendments - bills, which of course we will vote against and which the Minister has coerced. At the end of the committee, after announcing them, he literally left as a thief, apparently in order to avoid their discussion and especially the invitation of bodies, much more after his recent achievement in PPC, where he managed to create a "black" hole in the fund for the payment of RES producers. This hole is estimated to close at 287.6 million in 2020, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. In particular, after increasing the electricity price, it tried to reduce the increase by reducing the EMFF, an irresponsible energy, which ultimately led to the above deficit. As far as PPC's profits are concerned, with the aim of selling out, of course, as we have established in the debate with the SYRIZA question, it is, on the one hand, due to the reduction in the cost of energy internationally because of the pandemic and, on the other, to the increase in the price of electricity instead of the lower cost for consumers at lower prices. In simple terms, if these two had not changed, PPC would have about the same damage as in 2019, as we will testify in the Minutes. So her relief is another government legend like so many others. This is another incredible predicament of a ministry that does absolutely nothing right, and it seems clear that the Minister has undertaken the task of selling out the entire energy sector in our country, loyal to the foreign orders. The amendment now to 'LARCO' in Article 1 relates to the sale of mines along with the factory from the TSED, which is owned by the supermarket, so foreigners, who participate at 55%, as usual with the invoicing of damage and fines by the European Union, such as the OSE. We suspect that buyers will only take the looks and close the factory, probably transferring it to Turkey, which recently built, in 2013, a new one - we will submit it in the Minutes, of course, to always document what we are saying - as PitsOS recently announced, after PIRELLI, IZOLA and so many others. Why are you looking? Because nickel is an extremely valuable metal, with the honor of constantly growing. There are fluctuations, but today it is increasing due to the fact that it is used for batteries in electric cars and for storage, such as in RES systems or in homes, which we will be tabling in the Minutes. Greece, however, is the largest producer of nickel in the European Union with a 40% share. And if LARCO, which employs directly a thousand two hundred sixty workers and indirectly twenty-two thousand contractors and others, as we will testify in the Minutes, is able to produce two thousand to three thousand tonnes a year of cobalt, which is also used in electric cars, covering with Finland as the only producers on our continent, 10% of the European Union's needs. Therefore, there are prospects and there was no reason to close the company. Unfortunately, there is no time to cite the economic elements of LARCO and our proposals. Besides, that's the reason for the Minister's rush, for nobody to be heard, for nobody to say anything. With Article 2 of the amendment on TENs, the network's criminal outlet is being accelerated by setting a deadline for the setting by the RAE, by the Energy Regulatory Authority, an independent authority which will deal with the performance of capital. This will obviously affect the selling price of the DEDENE, and neither the calculation method nor the desired percentage is mentioned. If the percentage is high, the selling price of the TENDE will be higher but the energy cost of Greece will be more expensive, while the exact opposite will occur if the percentage is lower. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, However, we do not think it is possible for the State to intervene in an independent authority. Only in Greece do such things happen, in any other country! On the issue of DEPA, it is legitimate that the buyer's stay for five years but, of course, it is not acceptable to sell it, while it usually uses the claim that SYRIZA did something similar to DESFA, of course, that no Greek cares. No one cares what SYRIZA did in the past. After all, that's why he voted against him. There is, of course, a fear that the buyer would be a hostile company, a company from a host country, which the Minister did not take into account at all. As far as target is concerned, it is a Community directive, but we have already expressed our reservations about the Energy Exchange, considering it extremely dangerous, for example, by the ENRON scandal that went bankrupt in California. Finally, the amendment concerning the RES is clearly photographic, and we would like the Minister to explain to us whether it helps PPC or others and who it really does. In the bill now, as mentioned in the first committee, we have another European directive which comes for ratification in this House, from a government which simply carries translated orders - many times in bad translation - without actually legislating itself. The fact that we are the first countries to come to ratification, since according to a document tabled in the Minutes, only France, Slovakia and Lithuania have precedented, gives us the impression that we are again being used as experimental animals, particularly when large countries such as Italy and Spain appear hesitantly, while Germany does not impose mandatory measures on producers. If one reads the original text of the directive, one will see that, in order to put it into practice, some directives should be adopted, for example, how the targets of the reduction should be counted, in accordance with Article 4, until 3-1-2020, while the application to Article 13 of the directive or to Article 16 of this directive on how to refer to the European Union should be issued by 3-7-2020, without, of course, knowing or have been informed if this has happened. Is it not true that in order to commit itself to objectives one should know beforehand how they are defined? So how would it be wiser to wait for them to be issued and then ratify the law, instead of bringing back amendments, as usual? Is this also asked about the consequences of the very important domestic plastic industry and the focus? Are there alternative products or will we again create more unemployed? On the other hand, is it not immature to place restrictions on now when we do not yet know how the pandemic will develop? Are we not aware that, because of the pandemic, the use of plastic packaging has increased in food, has plastic bags, food disposable packaging and protective masks, plastic gloves, which we are importing, and everything else? Shouldn't it take time to answer all this? Why - unlike all logic - does the Ministry speed up implementation for central government bodies from 1-2-2021, before the date set by the European Union - defines the European Union - which is six months later, on 1-7-2021? We're just wondering why we're in a hurry for everything. Of course, the Ministry, as we have said, has already given us several samples of handshake, since it has done absolutely nothing about the car charging points for which the directive of the European Union has been adopted since 2014. It has recently legislated on electricity, without a charging network or a pan-Hellenic coverage for a long time. The specifications for the municipalities have just been published, as we tabled in the minutes in committee, with a view to setting up rather to the end of 2021, if not later, and the TEDEFE would have started it if it were not excluded for reasons that only the government knows. Something similar has also been found on the issue of defoliation, where the closure of the units was announced, without there being any plan or business plan of PPC, which we expect from the end of last year. There has recently been no draft of a fair transition which is in consultation, and at first glance seems to be insufficient with investments - wishfulness, as with jobs. Why does the Ministry not draw up a corresponding transition programme for the plastic industry, which will be greatly influenced by these regulations? Why is he so rushing to ratify the bill? Then we talked about the committees, about what is happening internationally in the problems of recycling itself, and about the fact that companies and countries claiming to recycle plastics have been sending them to China until recently, while others, despite the fact that they are being paid a great deal for recycling, are polluting the environment. We've seen a lot of fires in the plastic industries in the last few years. Lucky, in our view, it's probably not. In particular, we said that Sweden is often mentioned as an example of recycling, but only about half of it is recycled, as we have tabled in the Minutes, while the rest are either burned or exported to other states. As far as the rich Norway is concerned, which is also projected as a model - we have filled standards in Greece - it has imposed an end from 13 to 30 cents on plastic bottles. How many countries - especially the third world - are they able to pay 15 or 30 cents higher price in one bottle in soft drinks? Norway, however, also exports part of its waste to Germany, which in turn sent it to China until recently. Since China has not been accepting such quantities recently, they are being channelled to other countries, such as Malaysia and Turkey. Is this really a recycling to protect the environment, or is it another way of exploiting the poor countries that are turned into garbage? Isn't it a shame? We also recalled the scandal resulting from the revelation in Greece of many tons of toxic mercury in 2016, which came from recycling in Germany, as we tabled in the Minutes. It should not surprise us, of course, that the memorials have turned Greece into a third world, into a substitute for its lenders who use it even as a dump. From the above and from many of the articles that we have analysed in committee, it is easy to conclude that this is an environmental hypocrisy, simply an environmental hypocrisy that we will naturally vote against, while recycling creates more problems with regard to policing, toxic by-products, fraud and so on than it claims to solve. We stressed that because we are certainly in favour of sustainable development and real environmental protection we would propose the alternatives that exist, such as by-products of corn and sugar. We also stressed that, apart from combustion and recycling, there is a research activity to compost plastics with various bacteria, even non-bio-degradable plastics, as we will present in the Minutes. It is something that needs to be taken into account in terms of the cost of plastics management, and of course it promotes our primary sector, as well as in terms of whether they will have to stop their use. In addition, we have noted that there is an explosion in investment in biodegradable materials, which should be investigated, since the need for our country to invest is enormous. With the world plastic market at $234 billion, it is obvious that such investments will have a future. In conclusion, I should like to say that according to a study by IOBE Greece has a significant plastic industry, the overall - direct and indirect - of which is estimated at EUR 3 billion or 1.6% of the country's GDP in 2018, not today's because it has certainly collapsed. This is therefore an important sector, one of the few that we have left. The Association of Plastic Industries of Greece has, however, made proposals for the bill, which we have tabled for the Minutes, while it is only natural that the link and the industries it represents should be protected. Finally, we said that the only costing cost of the General Accounting Office in the State is 5.9 million from the end of 4 cents. It says absolutely nothing about the effects on the consumption or profits of businesses from changing the way products are handled, which we consider to be unacceptable. I would close briefly with the contents of the bill and Article 19 which is essentially afflicting the entire bill, but unfortunately there is no time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I will read out the request for a roll-call vote from all Members of the Communist Party of Greece: 'The signatory Members of Parliament are asking under Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote on Amendment No 512 and for a specific number of No 37, 12-10-2020 and a description: '1. Competition arrangements 'LARCO', amendments to Art. 21 n.4664/2020 Α'32. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Constraints on the transfer of subsidiaries ‘S.E. Infrastructures’, methodology for the calculation of required revenues of the national electricity distribution network (ENPI). 3. Coverage of financial obligations in daily energy planning (GDP), amendment of Article 98 of Law 4512/2018’ of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Integration of EU Directive 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment’. Here are the signatures of all the MPs of the Communist Party of Greece. I call to Stepma the special speaker of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we have a bill that suddenly took off! Nine additional articles in the existing, non-public consultation articles, non-visited articles in the Committee, except for examination in the Committee. They're not random articles. It concerns the sale of ‘LARCO’, PPC, DADE, measures for RES owners. It is, in other words, a bill that concerns the reduction of plastics without tangible results and with it, through the back door, arrangements are being made that are of direct business interest. We were wondering in the committees why this schizophrenia is. On the one hand, the draft good intentions - the incorporation of the directive on the reduction of plastics, weak application - and, on the other hand, the rest of the government's policy on waste management, which includes plastics being sent to combustion, the sorting of recyclable materials in mechanical recycling plants where, on the basis of TERNA data for Gianna and communications made by the company at a conference on its results, we have a recovery of 20% of recyclable plastics. That is, based on its plan, the government will send 80% of recycled plastics plus all non-recyclable plastics for combustion. And here we have a bill that talks about the reduction of plastics, when all the government's policy is to vaporize plastics, which we inhale. We have a violation of European directives to such an extent that the PPP, prepared by SYRIZA, has made it its flag, the New Democracy, has been returned by the European Commission with a text which I and my mandate in the European Parliament have never seen, that the European Commission should speak in such a way, that the European Commission should speak of over-costing, over-divisioning, complete lack of data and a breach of the directives that eventually lead to a direct state aid for a private company. In this case, the construction of PPP Peloponnese, ‘TERNA’. Instead of changing this contract, instead of actually telling us we were caught, what he says is that he will keep the contract as it is and go to make a change in the request for funding. And not just that. This contract makes it a basis for waste management throughout Greece. In fact, it dismantles the circular economy, which this bill we have here in front of us in theory promotes it. This schizophrenia, of course, is now explained by these amendments, because it is clear that if you had a chance to bring a consensus to this bill, by correcting the impossibility of implementation that is obvious, you do not care. You are really firing at the only chance you have had, Minister, in your term of office in order to bring intolerable amendments. And because you too have been through the European Parliament, you know very well that, yes, the amendments are made - not late, in the short term - but with too much consultation time and in any case outside the draft legislation being discussed. Is the sale of DESCRIPTION within the theme? Is LARCO a subject? Is the EIA measures a thematic one? So, really, don't try to throw ashes in the eyes. We have brought a series of proposals which we will repeat, in terms of strengthening the circular economy, such as: reducing VAT on companies active in re-use. Urban arrangements to make it compulsory to separate currents in the new buildings. You said you'd bring it. We expect to see it, bring this measure and we invite you to do the self-evident, fill it with mandatory photovoltaics on the roof, fill it with all the measures that will allow these houses to be energy autonomous. Integration of TTEs into the system 'I pay what I fly'. Promoting bulk products, which is very important, as for packaging products we have a lot of plastic production, which is actually used for 10 minutes until it reaches the store at home and at best recycles. So the bulk products that already exist can be strengthened, and that means that we have to see what we are doing and what we are doing with the people's markets, so that we can replace them and no longer use these plastics. If we don't do that, really, I don't understand how we can actually reduce disposable plastics. To lay down criteria for exclusion of disposable plastic supplies in public procurement. Financing of reuse, recycling and composting enterprises. However, we wonder how the critical legislative arrangements will be initiated and what time-frame the 'I pay' or any alternative management system or the end of burial will be, and if you bring this unacceptable measure of combustion and in lignite mines, in the lignite plants Ptolemaida 5 and Megalopolis 4, if you are going on this road without a return, the least we can think about is bringing a burning charge. Because the impact is important and if you want, we can say in detail why the impact is important. In the cement industries that have no process at this time to protect us from dioxins, as they cannot cool chimney, they cannot avoid this critical temperature of 350 degrees Celsius in which the furans are produced, and that is why they will be produced by the cement manufacturers furs, but obviously also with the lignite and all that you are trying to bring, and obviously, in any plant that burns plastic in such proportions, which is not happening anywhere in Europe. We have no comparison measure and there is no previous scientific measure. How exactly is recycling going to be improved, which we are now seeing collapse with the successive burns of spaces, with the terrible delays in the recycling waste in the Race and elsewhere? What is the rate of construction of composting units? How will systematic and effective information and awareness-raising actions be financed? Because without them we cannot collectively enter into a society in the new era of the circular economy and in the course of zero waste production. What is the action to prevent the consumption of waste? In this bill, the pillar of prevention and reuse is not accompanied by policy measures. Basically, as we see so many times in the pandemic and in this area again and again in every policy area, the government considers it to be the responsibility of the public, without giving incentives in this case to make this approach easier by the public. In Article 4, we have a reduction of 30% in consumption. For a matter like waste where we don't have any data, you put a percentage reduction in consumption, without giving us real measurable targets, without any way to measure them. Come and say publicly that there is no evidence, that we will set a target within the next two years to clarify these elements, and we will have real targets that may also be controllable by the citizens. Because otherwise we're talking about a package of impracticable good ideas. It would also be important for the measure to be extended to the people and for the stands to a gradual ban through education also through the use of long-term products and not the perpetuation of the reward instruments that, instead of reducing the problem, are finally perpetuating it. It is very important to see the piece of microplastics, that is, plastics that enter our food chain. Here our country has an opportunity to enter the lead and research into the effects on public health and research in order to avoid them. The microplastics pollution concerns each of us separately. And at the moment the impact is undetermined and thus potentially enormous in public health. They also need to implement any measures to prohibit disposable plastics. Who's taking this role? Is the EEW that is currently not an audit body but has an effective role and is it under-represented? So how will this legislation ultimately be implemented? Let me add the question: Are you interested in implementing this legislation in the end? Introduce the logic of the expanded producer's responsibility. That's right. The manufacturer, the factories, is responsible for disseminating disposable plastics. It's not the citizen's fault. The problem is from production rather than consumption. The citizen is called upon to manage a difficult problem, which is produced by businesses, to manage it incompletely, through a very problematic recycling process that does not lead at the moment, as is planned and implemented with blue bins and waste sorting centres, in recycling but only at very small recycling rates. There is therefore no information on how to achieve the producer's responsibility and therefore a reduction in the producer's response to this responsibility to reduce disposable plastics. We are wondering if, in the end, we will have an end to being paid by producers to continue producing the same product, as they have done so far. What concerns us also very much is that there is a lack of a real real plan for measures to raise awareness of local society, of societies and of civil society, as you are once again entrusted to alternative management systems and the EEAN, without involving civil society. We have the impression that this part, too, is being dealt with in a way that is interoperable. I will, however, go to the amendments, which seem to be the substance of the bill, Mr Minister, because otherwise - I will still repeat - we do not understand how in a bill that if you put the control mechanisms in place, if you put environmental awareness and improved planning so that it can actually be implemented, if you put effective targets for producers to reduce plastics and two more, three more measures that we have mentioned, we could also vote in favour of it from the point of view of other political actors in this Parliament. So instead of working as you announced, you will incorporate our comments into improving the bill, you alone brought as amendments - because the correction techniques did not involve any incorporation of our proposal - they are unreasonable in terms of the nature of the bill. So you didn't care about the climate of consensus. You wouldn't shoot it or else, Minister. Now as regards the amendment to private auditors, which comes from Papaconstantinou in 2011 with Law 4014, we have the introduction so this provision of the auditors. By your law, the environmentalist now seems that these people will be able, when businesses want it by draw and by payment from businesses, to be able to exploit them, and thus bypass the Environmental Licensing Department. And all this because? For an Environmental Licensing Department of the State that is undersettled, which you do not go ahead with its duties and which you discredit, Minister. You discredit her when you say that an EPA takes six years to implement. Really, let's look at your argument. Six years which NCA needs? An NCA that is documented and complete wants two to three months and there are concrete examples, if you want to discuss it, one of which is public consultation. What YEAR do they take six years? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. I'll be done. It takes six years, unfortunately, for the photovoltaics and winds and for the RES and so many other works without ornithological studies, with three days' measurements, without a complete file, those that push the services to be approved and bypassed, because sometimes they say not, as in the case of the huge wind on almost all the islands of the Aegean. One more thing, Minister, has been entering the GDP page for at least two months and we are not finding it. The page's down. In breach of the European directive, they are not publicly registered. We're taking the help desk and nobody's answering. What exactly is it? As regards the amendment to 'LARCO', we have a neuro-algal business for Europe, it produces a huge percentage of Europe's nickel, and that is why there are specific countries which have specific interests in this business. In a company that is in debt - yes, is it in debt - to see a little mismanagement? How was this nickel, 40% of European production, sold to 40% to 60% of its market value? See what's happened? How, in order to be sold at this degrading, scandalous price, we have a huge environmental crime in Evia, in the region of the Forests, where the root was mined, although sulphite is banned in this case, and how do you continue, you want to relieve the new buyer of all environmental crime and without any cost, that the restoration in practice of the crime continues to produce in this place that cannot be produced, because sulphites are forbidden for extraction, because they lead to acidic absorption and carry all heavy metals into the water of the citizens, into irrigation water. These workers, who are over a thousand with the contractors, are probably over the five thousand - who, in fact, want to cut off their wages, make them all contractors - will be the big losers again. You'll give them a package of opportunities to the private buyer. That is what you are going on and expanding with this amendment, such as the sale of the DEDEN, the sale of the DPRK. Once in this Chamber only New Democracy supported privatisations. After the cowardly support of privatisation and from PASOK with the relocations, we now have full support for the three major parties of privatisation, with differences, but with a yes to privatisation. We are in a parliament, where only exceptionally is it against privatisation and we privatise what? I'm not going to say silver, but I'm going to tell the development resources. We are privatising the companies that, when we lose them, we will not be able to plan development, we will not be able to control the future of this place. They are profitable companies for the majority of them, despite all political and electoral at times mismanagement and obviously also your government and previous governments, who instead of apologizing, are using them as an alibi to sell these businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u92	Please prepare the Step. I will give the floor to the President of the Parliamentary Group and to the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, today the civil servants who strike, the teachers, together with the students and parents, are protesting again about self-evident health protection measures at workplaces and schools. You have eaten your face with extortion, threats, even repression against students. Even today, with the fence of terrorism, you have tried to block and dismantle a mass gathering, even after young children. You didn't make it. Stop playing the health of the workers, our children. Take action in schools, in workplaces, in public transport, in hospitals now, before it's too late. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue with a crucial issue of topicality as well, before entering the main theme that I have taken the floor. The Turkish research ship "ORUÄ REIS" returned to the Eastern Mediterranean, moves to an area that is part of the Greek continent and is approaching Kastelorizo dangerously. It seems that the Turkish Government is making use of the strong economic, political and military relations with Germany, other European Union countries, with the United States, raises additional issues relating to the 'grey zones', and the scenario of partial demilitarisation of the islands is exalted. At the same time, by decision of the Turkish and Turkish Cypriot authorities, the Baroness coastal front opened up to the occupied Ammochostos and the BAROS is constantly blocking the Cypriot EEZ. In short, there are great risks and the situation that has been created has blown down irresponsible allegations of Erdogan's folding and retreat. We note this because just a few days ago, you all celebrated the visit of the US Secretary of State, Pompeo, Greece and so disgustingly welcomed the inspection he made in Thessaloniki and the US base of Souda, the promotion of business and political soldiers, mainly of their interests in the region. You did not talk about expressing your pleasure at the visit of NATO's other "hawk" Stoltenberg and the activation of the naval crisis mechanism, on the pretext, as you said, that this would put a brake on Turkish aggression. You have bet on Germany, France and you have given your change for the European Union summit, trying to clarify the unacceptable decisions it has made for Turkey, making sanctions urging them, which, after all, cannot cancel the European Union's strong military economic relations with Turkey and the bazaars and the refugee are under way. You are serving monopolistic groups that have in their hands the keys to the economy in Greece and have chosen these Euro-Atlantic alliances for their own interests and are systematically trying to deceive our people by cultivating false expectations, cultivating reassurance. But developments disguise you every day. You hide that your allies have criminal responsibilities for the wars in Iraq, Syria, Libya, which have put their tail to all Greek governments. The United States, NATO, the European Union promotes its own dangerous designs in the region, of course, in competition with Russia and China on energy sources for pipelines. They cover and encourage Turkish provocation, thus seeking to distract Turkey from Russia's influence and, of course, to strengthen NATO's south-eastern wing. Their aim is to promote American and European interests in the region, to develop further the activity of energy colleges. All of this is behind their insistence on the Greek-Turkish dialogue for the consideration of the Aegean, the Eastern Mediterranean. You, both the Government and the Civic Opposition, with the tail of the other parties in here, are involved in dangerous planning with serious consequences for sovereign rights. Whatever you say, the facts show that the United States, NATO, the European Union not only is not a shield for sovereign rights but are even more involved in the country's major competitions, the dangerous arrangements that are being promoted in the Aegean Sea and throughout the Eastern Mediterranean under Euro-Atlantic supervision and with the participation of the urban classes of Greece and Turkey. What about SYRIZA's leadership? While joining the New Democracy Government strategically - and we mean for the US bases, the country's transformation into NATO's bulwark - is sloganing, speaking of red lines and expansion of territorial waters to twelve miles south and east of Crete. We have made it clear that extending territorial waters to twelve nautical miles is a right under the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and applies to the country. But take note at the same time, however, that in the hands of those who have the real power today, this cannot serve the people's interests nor can it function as a panacea and give an answer to Turkish aggression. On the contrary, it may complicate further the situation, exacerbate competition at the expense of all the peoples of the region. The Communist Party of Greece calls on the people not to show any confidence in the government's policy, no bourgeois government, no party serving interests and designing imperialist alliances. We are convinced that the people can become a leader in safeguarding their own interests. To strengthen his struggle for disengagement from these plans, the dangerous ones. Let's drive the country free from these alliances. And now to the main issue that I have spoken about. Your Government, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, is currently preparing to complete its criminal plan for LARCO. You have even thrown an unacceptable amendment to LARCO in a plastics bill. So plastic, of course, are your own ideas, your position, your policy. I'm not saying if you're the same. So a project that has been launched - step by step, all the governments so far - is aimed at further depreciation, privatisation, and even the final closure of the operation. Your plan is criminal because LARCO is not any business, it is a strategic undertaking with great productive potential that could be exploited for the development of the country's economy from the point of view of the interests of the Greek people. Only to think that our country is the only one in the European Union that has on the subterranean nickel ore with cobalt, which makes them unreserved throughout the world, that the largest production of stainless steel throughout the world is the customers of LARCO, that in our country and in LARCO, specific experiments have been carried out successfully to produce stainless steel, pure nickel and a satisfactory level of nickel experiment in the form of hydro-metallurgy. And all that today that everyone is talking about is electricity, about the future that nickel and cobalt can have. This is all enough to understand the productive potential of LARCOs, which, with the amendment that you are preparing to vote on, you are not only leading to further privatisation but even to the padlock. Because in your proposal no future owner commits itself to maintaining the company's productive character, whether ‘LARCO’ will continue to produce vertically from the mines to the factory, while no single job is guaranteed. At the same time, as the workers themselves know, the contract that special management had entered into with PPC expires at the end of the year, which is collected from January 1st. In fact, as they also denounce, in the mines of Evia the contract of special management with the majestics, who made a revelation of ore leaving a very large dowry for the next owner, ended. In Evia forty workers have already been made redundant by the contractor, most of whom are residents of the villages affected by the last floods. The end of the year is the end of all the contracts of the slave trade offices which employ workers at the factory. Already the slave trade offices, using the anti-corruption laws, have informed workers in writing that they will be fired in order to save compensation. As they all show, you are about to put the lock on "LARCO" after fifty-six years. You are about to fly on the road to hundreds of workers, since, as your government officials have already said, the new owners, if any, will choose those who want and the conditions they want. You know well what impact such a development will have not only for the workers themselves and their families, but also for the whole region around LARCO. You know very well that bankruptcy threatens many households in Fthiotis Prefecture and in total in Central Region, and this will also have your own signature, Mr Stagira, who are elected to Fthiotis and you are not here yet. In the period between now and the special management scheme, you have done everything you could to depreciate the company in order to present privatisation, even the paddock, as a natural result. That's what you've been telling us all this time. What to start with? Is it really the abandonment of the undertaking in which neither the minimum maintenance of infrastructure is carried out? For the new wage and labour data you unilaterally set against the rights of workers, to which you and the various "pads" have put you from above and the responsibility for the debts of the company? For the 35 million that you gave to big shareholders and big businessmen to create a dowry for the potential new owners? Eat, eat, eat! All of you time and you of the New Democracy and you of KINAL - PASOK who are now absent from the Chamber and you of SYRIZA - PASOK. All these years our party has fought in all ways, with all means against deportation, against the privatization of LARCO. We have stood against your criminal plans demanding funding, the modernisation of the company with responsibility, planning and control of the state, and its further development in line with its potential, which are really too great. We have indicated, for example, that the construction of a stainless steel plant will create thousands of new jobs throughout the country. Even today, with all our forces, we continue to demand that we ensure that all jobs continue, because LARCO, as we have often said here in Parliament, is a real gold mine. The fact that LARCO is a real gold mine proved it within the House in addition to the amendment tabled by our party's parliamentary group for the full operation and development of the company at the same time as the protection of workers. The New Democracy Government, as expected, rejected the JRC's amendment without any discussion. Sadly, however, as most of the times he had the backs of SYRIZA, KINAL, who found nothing to say, even for the eyes of the world. They did not want any debate to take place precisely because they did not want their own time-consuming responsibilities to be revealed, because all of them have contributed to the depreciation of LARCO, in the dissolution plan, taking a step forward in the directions and the European Union, which is now putting fines on top, just to put Europe's, German, French, other monopolies on the wealth of LARCO, on the wealth of Greece. Because none of you want to have a debate about what exactly the 'LARCO' business is, what production opportunities it has, how these potential can be exploited for growth from the people's point of view, in particular, with elements rather than large words and words of the air. This gold mine, all these years over, was found in the hands of various owners, when in the hands of private capital, when in the hands of the capitalist state itself, all of them considered it a barber only because it did not serve the needs of their own profitability, the very capitalist road, that is, that you have chosen and taken. From this barbecue, as you say, you want to get rid of now and you don't hold on. In the hands of the workers of the country, however, we believe that the "LARCO" will be a great supply to satisfy the great needs of the Greek people. LARCO can and must continue to operate as a single railway ore operator in Greece, in Europe, covering more than 5% of the European market. However, a prerequisite for continuing its operation is the utilization of the Greek people of mining products, such as the development of the domestic nickel through the production of stainless steel, its planned use as raw materials in industry, which could cover a very large part of modern needs for industry, as well as the production of many medical goods, household goods, materials for modern constructions, transport raw materials and so many others. In this direction, all the rights of workers with human rights, with decent working conditions, can be safeguarded. This approach to the functioning of LARCO and the exploitation of mineral resources is, of course, in conflict with capitalist production relations, which are their purpose and the profits of the few at the expense of many, are well known. That is why today it is necessary and overtime, we say, that LARCO, like all mining wealth, should pass all these in social property, since this is the only way, with a central, scientific plan, with labour at the same time and popular control by the producers themselves of wealth, there can be prospects for the real welfare of our people, the workers of LARCO, their children. The JRC will be located along with the workers of LARCO and their families, their women, their children. It is located together with the inhabitants of all the villages of Fthiotida, Evia, Boeotia, other areas that exist and live decades from the wealth produced by the workers of LARCO, all self-employed, professionals, farmers, officials, scientists in this area, the shops of the area. We welcome the racing mind of those who are still resisting. Even those who are in the influence of the New Democracy, Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Stavoura who will probably listen to us, even those who try every day to make fun of, that is, you, your various parties with ridiculous promises, with false words, like Gorjos of Mavroyalouros, are approaching us and saying that they trust us that we are telling us that this is the proposal for "Larko", that the KKE is right, always has been and is with working class and people. So we tell them, too, from the Step of the House, "feel fear, don't expect anything from European servants, multinational monopolies who come to suck your blood and sweat. Cowards, fateful and unwitting in return, perhaps, for some miracle. Take the case into your hands, even whatever the outcome is because you are the power," we tell them. Saturday we'll be there with them in Larymna. Today we will ask for a roll-call vote, as the Diamanta Manolakou said before. Those from here who vote for the condemnation of "LARCO", of the workers of "LARCO" must be written in the blackboard in all the villages and cities of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Please prepare the Step in order for the President of the Greek Solution to take the floor, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos. Until this is done I can read to you that eighteen SYRIZA Members have tabled a request for a roll-call vote. I read: "On the basis of Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we Members who are signatory to this request call for a roll-call vote on Amendment 512/37/12-10-2020 to the draft law "Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment" of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy." Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make a small reference to the introduction, because I think some things are misinterpreted in the Greek Parliament. I will avoid commenting on some of the graphics that have been heard. The line of Greek Solution is clear and I refer to immunity. Any waiver of immunity coming here must go to the natural judge. That is our view, we do not want to blame anyone or to cover anyone. For us, fellow solidarity does not exist. Even for us, if there is a waiver of immunity, we are obliged to refer the matter to justice, because we trust justice. Those who do not want their immunity to be waived are guilty - not all of course - or do not trust the judgment of justice. That's clear. In addition to national issues, I have an asterisk here. On national issues, we are vertical. I cannot remove immunity for a man who is struggling for national issues and has another view from someone else. I'm going over the rest. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We're going to an issue you're doing, she didn't comment on it in here. I guess they're here to vote for most of them. Today it was officially announced, Minister, by the 'COSMOTE' that our mobile phones were being monitored. Today it is an official communication from the ‘COSMOTE Mobile Communications S.A.’. In the channels we won't hear that. I am sure that the sums that COSMOTE gives for advertising are huge and they will never expose the company, the big-fashioned ones. But don't anyone talk here that they were even watching the Prime Minister's cell phone? Today he was denounced, leaked that there were constant surveillance. The Communication states: ‘During the verification of its systems’, the ‘COSMOTE’, that is, ‘was detected unauthorised file-exported from the company’s system as a result of cyberattack’. In another country the Minister of Communications would have resigned, someone would have resigned. They're watching our phones. Officially speaking, the company itself. The phone of the Prime Minister of Greece is being watched when so many issues we have with Turkey. Behind the company 'COSMOTE' who is it, Minister? They're our German friends. In summary today, Mr Minister, they are entering the Finfisher, a German company, the German authorities, they are raiding - now listen - and they find evidence that they have given intercept software to a Turkish company. This morning this was the case. It may not have anything to do with the two cases, but I wonder, a little sensitivity - when we talk about the Greek Prime Minister's cell phone - from the politicians in here is not there to talk about it seriously? It has never happened before that we were going through a matter of great importance, in our view, because it concerns the safety of the Prime Minister or of the ministers' mobiles, but the security of the state, the security of the country. I'm also going to say a few things about the bill. I want to put forward something because we have with Turkey rather than many open fronts. I was waiting today for Mr. Teddy to take Mr. Cener Elcheil, is the secretary of the Association of Turkish Cypriot Teachers, to take him to Athens and take him to Athens today and tomorrow where the European partners meet. What did that gentleman say last night? "Here," speaks of the Occupied, "is a place under the occupation of Turkey". He's the secretary of the Turkish Cypriot Teachers, he's not Greek. It's a place where there's been an invasion. In this place, Turkey applies an undoubted genocide against the Turkish Cypriots..." This says Turkish Cypriot "... and is trying to change the demographic structure here. And the Turks did that. They've changed it and step by step. They're moving on. Previously, they were Turkish Cypriots at the scene. They looked like it. At the moment, the Turks are taking part in talks on our behalf, the Turkish Cypriots. He says and speaks from the Occupied Territories: 'Here, it is now occupied by Turkey'. If there was a serious foreign policy, our diplomats had to take the man and take him straight and talk, no one else. Not the Prime Minister, not Dendias. Let the teacher speak himself. He is a Turkish Cypriot, general secretary of teachers, Minister. You see we're coming here to put forward proposals for you. But it's a very funny case. Previously, Mr. Koutsubas said - they all come together and go - for Mavroyaluro. I will tell you that the government reminds me, Mr Hatzidakis, unfortunately Gionakis' film. I don't know if you've seen the movie. "Yannis screwed up." That's the name of the movie that Gionakis told him to go sell some products with five drachmas one. "Everything you get a talis" was advertising, and Gionakis sold all the products with a talisman. Instead of selling each product a tall one, he sold it all together a tall one. That's what you guys did today. You're selling it all out a tall one. Proof of the deindustrialisation of the country and the lack of political will to pressure your German friends is "PITSOS". With PITSOS, the Germans were obliged to invest. And now they come out of your own people, Minister - and frankly I wonder - through social media and say that it is the mayor of Keratini. I don't know if he was a communist, Left. I don't know what it was. In other words, it is the mayor who did not require the ‘SIEMENS’ to provide the two hundred and fifty million investments. It's the mayor's fault. The JRC isn't talking. SYRIZA doesn't talk. You don't talk. PITSOS is on its way. He went to Turkey. One hundred and fifty-five years old company with two thousand each day production of ovens, products and refrigerators. We all grew up with "PITSOS". But what does that show? It shows that there is no real will in the Greek Government to give what it must give in favour of economic development. Let's go to LARCO. I am one of those who have fought since 2007, 2008, 2009 in here to talk about the country's strategic minerals, about mineral wealth, not just about gas and oil. I've submitted a bunch of IGM studies, studies from the University of Houston since 2007, 2008, 2009. Minister, you were here too. I was here, too. I was telling you. Nickel is a strategic mineral. That's the truth. LARCO produces nickel and cobalt. You're a green government. That's what the Prime Minister said. He went to the lignite. He closed Kozani and says: "We're green now." No, PASOK. PASOK, you've become anyway. And Mrs Diamantopoulou put it. And Mr. Chrysochoidis you put. Any pasophiles you put on. We have SYRIZA - PASOK and New Democracy - PASOK. This is it, two PASOK parties. The real PASOK today is left alone, and they're few. I will tell you this: Cobalt, it is the strategic raw material for the European Union and it is necessary for the electric cars that you made us'straints' here. The "storm" is an Italian expression. You went to an electric car. You've been strolling. You've got batteries on. I have an electric car, too. But there is one difference: The batteries are made from cobalt. And you give the primary sector. Because the primary sector is not just livestock, fisheries and agriculture. There's that, too. I have primary material and I create goodwill in processing, new investment. So invest in electric cars that are the future of thirty years later, because we have the primary material. That's missing from an industry. To motivate LARCO to develop as a company, produce cobalt, create electric cars and make Germany dependent on us on batteries. Because 10% in Europe we and Finland have it. That means, Minister, you're making mistakes. I won't say you're like Gionakis and you're selling everything a tall one. But you're making mistakes. When you have the primary material processing is easy, because it just needs a design. So you don't have a plan. I want to be with you objectively much more cautious. Otherwise, it's stupid to choose to sell something that has enormous value when - I repeat - it's essential for batteries. Actually, you're selling out a treasure. I will tell you this: you are constantly talking about investments. ‘MICROSOFT’ is a member of the ‘MICROSOT’. Guys, we're saved. ‘MICROSOFT’ is a member of the ‘MICROSOT’. We're saved. We got jobs. I will tell you something, Minister: you, the Prime Minister and LARCO will go to Kosani tomorrow. Go for a walk and talk to those who worked there and stay out of work. Because what you're doing is a crime. It's a crime because unemployed people are staying. Unemployment creates crime, poverty, hunger and reaction. Don't do that. Bring a serious plan to vote for it, too. Get a development plan because you've become wind turbines. We've been listening all day about wind turbines, investments, casinos. Especially, we're glad about the casino coming down from Parnitha. You can't imagine. I went every day. It was far away. Every day I go to the casino to play slots. Now, I'm going to Maroussi. It's close. Adonis Georgiadis also says he took five times the price for the Greek government and rejoices. You don't have to. In five minutes, you're there. You touch the penny and you leave. If you don't have one, what's going on? We will mourn victims. You're making mistakes. That's the difference between us. This is not a production of wealth. What you're doing is bleeding wealth. You're closing industries. You're opening a casino. You put on wind turbines that don't have jobs. Because a hundred wind turbines need a guard. I've told you a thousand times. Your logic is good. The Germans say so. They're good. They keep their lignite, of course. We put on wind turbines. Where are we going to find jobs? I also want to do a little parentheses and close: Mr. Loverdo, a conspiracy is making you a match in Corfu. I don't know him personally. He's a fish grower. The man studied this job. He made incredible complaints about the formol they use in fish farms. The man's been chased badly. The multinational companies of Arab interests and Americans are after him. I'll ask you a question. Man is desperate to the limits of suicide, because he told the truth that with formol, banned in America, Greece, fish farms cause problems of toxicity and cancer in fish that we eat. I'm telling you, because you're all here economists. Merra25 is not here now, which they are engaged in, but nobody is talking about all of this. That is, in America, forbidden, but that is where we allow it. No one controls anyone. The last survey carried out on farms was carried out in 2009. Since then, nothing. See what they're fed up, what they're given, what they're creating. They're monsters mutated. This man's called Loverdos, and he's fighting for our health alone. Instead of fighting the state and the state for civil health, a citizen is fighting alone for the health of all others. But the state does not listen. Interest is too much. I know. But at some point we have to overcome the interests. We are now going to Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot understand - with sadness I will say, Mr Loverdo - the following: I heard the Minister on television say 'You know, NAVTEX is not the problem if it is six miles, seven miles or eight miles'. The Minister didn't know that NAVTEX was going through a real fire. Six miles before you can't do NAVTEX. Are they both ignorant, semi-educated and unwritten? I don't know. I guess something's wrong. Until yesterday, we knew that twelve nautical miles are national sovereignty. Suddenly, we cut it and made it six nautical miles. And that's annoying. For twelve nautical miles is an international right of the country. And the ministers can't go out - I won't say their names, they're on their own anyway - and they're saying that at six nautical miles and beyond we have no issue. What do you say, gentlemen? Twelve nautical miles is international law. And I won't tell the AOZ that's two hundred nautical miles. I will say the twelve, which no government has declared and has defined. That's the big problem. They're opening the baroness. Nobody said anything. Greece was absent from Cyprus. We're not talking. We don't support. We're not talking. In addition, the 'KANUNI' came out today. KANUNI is not research. The normal Turkish is a drillhole, which means it's going to pierce. And they said he was going to pierce in Kastelorizo. At some point we can see what our red lines are. I've said it for months. I'm shouting. I'm screaming. Because quite simply, we have a government that runs behind developments. And he's lying. Today, we had a Foreign Minister called Treasury. For 20 minutes the man was not allowed to pass over Turkey by the Turks to go to Arbela. Arvala is Erbil, an ancient Greek city. I'm saying that to understand what I mean. How is it possible, with so many lies this government can think he can fool us forever. He won't fool us. He can't fool us. The Government also justifies the presence of ‘OPUC REIS’. She's been justifying it for months. Listen, what he was saying. At first, they said he wouldn't dare come under Cyprus. Then they said that the wind took it a little. A few months ago you said that the wind took it a little bit and left with the wires, a little left, a little right. "Yes, the wind took it but did not plunge cables." That's what they said. Then Makis said the Voridis my friend gave up wires, but he's not doing any research. That's what the ministers of the New Democracy said. Then they said he did, but in a questionable area. As soon as the "ORUC REIS" left Crete, we won. This is our policy, it is the policy without a plan, without seeing what the real red lines in our country are. There are no red lines. Of course what I can't understand is why this veto we have, the only diplomatic as a country, we never used it, deactivated it. And I'm not talking about sanctions. For sanctions, I'll tell you right away. The veto that takes and pick up and let our "little sister" Cyprus alone threaten with veto and we make the ducks. We are not talking, we are not supporting Cyprus. Of course, if I were the Prime Minister, I would even veto the European Union. I would veto until the Germans and the rest are separated. But the problem is, you don't do it and nobody does it. This is where I wonder why. Why isn't that so? Unless you tell me that the "ORUC REIS" came to load the "PITSOS" and take it to Turkey. It's the only way I can accept that he's going in and walking around, or I can't justify it. There's no government to justify it. If there was genuine unity in the Greek political system, all political leaders had to support the Prime Minister. It's a tough place for him. I say it. It is perhaps the most difficult historical moment for our country. It's hard times because we're ante warport. So we're close to a war. If the country really could exercise serious legal defence. Because when you do legal defence, you respond by sinking the warships and the hypocritical necropsy of the 'ORUC REIS'. That's not what we did either. Also, it cannot for flea fuck the Prime Minister, and it cannot go out now to speak and tell what the Greek Government is doing. Don't talk to us political leaders. Let the Greek people know. Let Article 42 be activated on collective defence of the European Union. There are diplomatic weapons. I'm not just telling you to sink the ships. I am telling you diplomatic weapons, such as a generalised embargo on Turkish products. Let's do it. It's a countermeasure. It's not aggressive energy. It's called countermeasure. Of course we must demand that Germany does not sell arms to the Turks. Today we tabled a European question as a party - a demand that the six submarines not be sold to Turkey by Germany. We paid for it. The PASOK government did a good job with "Papanicolis". They were in trouble, but we solved them. She was fine. And thankfully we have four to tell the truth. We got it, we got it. We paid to get the Germans the "know how", and now the Germans, after having acquired the "know how", will sell six themselves to the Turks. The advantage we have in buying the four submarines then made by PASOK is lost in the next two years. It must be demanded that the Greek Government not be sold. It's just stuff. In order not to say that we are not saying any proposals, yesterday I informed the Prime Minister's office that South Korea, ladies and gentlemen, withdraws the hundred Black Hawk helicopters. He's giving them free. It's a hundred helicopters ready to fight. South Korea doesn't have much stress on its helicopters. Let's go get them. Like I said about the Rafale and ran and took them after two months. Let's go get South Korea's Black Hawk. They're a hundred used slightly, and we can take them, use them. These are proposals which I also make to the Prime Minister. I'm trying to be constructive as long as we can. Don't expect Germany to help. You'll never get one. Maas came here and told us that despite the challenges, he needed dialogue. Germany is nice, isn't it? "Despite challenges, there is a need for dialogue." What's the challenge? Where did they get into our house and want to rape us? Do they consider it a challenge? And Germany will never support us. I've said it a thousand times! I was disturbed, however, by the 'DEUTSCHE WELLE' and she says very gladly - and I expect Mr. Peshassa to deny it - that 'The Greek Government is lying. He never demanded sanctions or called for sanctions to be imposed on Turkey.’ I can submit the article 'DEUTSCHE WELLE' for the minutes if you like. He says, "Government source in Berlin points out that Athens has not formally recommended sanctions in Brussels". The New Democracy has never asked for sanctions in Brussels! Never! And I ask why! Why is the Prime Minister lying or telling half the truth, or are his ministers lying to the Greek people? What's going on? What are they hiding? Did they agree on something? If they agreed, they'd tell us. It cannot be said by the 'DEUTSCHE WELLE' and there is no denial. Not even a denial. And because you are wondering why the Germans are not punishing Turkey, as a historian, I will tell you a simple thing. Two centuries ago, Turkey and Germany are several countries. Germany's leadership is pro-Turkish. But she has an excuse at the moment. Eighty thousand German-Turkish companies are working today in Germany. They employ five hundred thousand German workers. They're Turks and in Germany they've made companies. The annual turnover is 52 billion. Three German MEPs have Turkish origin, sixteen federal and forty-eight regional MPs in the sixteen Länder, four hundred and twenty-three municipal officials. They're all Turks. Five million Turks vote in Germany. So Germany is also hostage to any of its sanctions choices, in addition to its interests in Turkey with huge investments. And "PITSOS" will take her there. PITSOS will go to Turkey, will not stay here. This is the huge success of the governments to expel what is Greek and to go to Turkey. And PIRELLI had been to Turkey in the past. Also, why did not any Greek government make a complaint about the publication 'NEW YORK TIMES'? They said Turkey makes money in this way: it recruits jihadists, sends them to local countries, Libya, Azerbaijan, I tell you randomly, North Iraq, Syria and paid for oil. He took 35 million from Libya, 14 billion from Qatar, unknown how many of Azerbaijan's. It's practically a slave trade. He sends jihadists and takes money either in gold or in oil. That's what I'm saying to you to understand that it's not just things. We are at a very difficult time, and we need to understand that we need to be serious. And Mr. Doku's choice is not a serious choice. This man is for consideration, ladies and gentlemen. He's said it. It's his choice. It's his opinion. I'm not going against him. He has made it very clear that he is in favour of Kazan-kazan - as the sweet Kazan dippi, - and win-win and all these weird collapsing. Mark him and choose him to put him now the Prime Minister of National Security counselor? But I'm going to say this: is it possible to put Doko on? It marks the message of co-existence in Turkey of the choice of this man. He says it himself. The Prime Minister doesn't have to say anything else. "They made the man of the security counselor, so, Mr Turks, don't be afraid. I'm here and we're going for consideration. We have the person responsible." I'm telling you why these are the wrong messages, and I don't want to escalate or bail, but lies don't work. I'll just read a statement from Doku: 'Even consideration could also be discussed'. That's not what they're saying. They're not said! And you're putting him in a security counselor? Keep up your pretexts! Nor did I want to say that today the workers protested about the Greek state and the Greek Government for its anti-grassroots measures and did well. But I can't understand why the government didn't arrest them. Why forbid parades? On 28 October he postponed parades. Why are they doing this? Why does that have to do with orthodoxism, Greece, history, culture to be persecuted? But what has to do with ideology, with work - and well did they protest - is not forbidden? Why have today's gatherings not been banned or at the court of appeal? And very well Mr. Loverdus said what he said. And I say again, why is this all happening? What's the point? People laugh at them. I'm saying it straight away. The coronary, death is going out - so at least the ministers say - but freely anyone can make gatherings and demonstrations. But if we're going to make a parade, or if we're going to church, we should all be in prison. That's not right. And because I want to be honest with you, to hang up here, because a lot of things have been said about Golden Dawn, I'll say one thing. And SYRIZA and New Democracy aren't telling the truth. With one and another's Penal Code, I'll tell you who came out to finish the story. Not only did the Nazi organization take advantage of him, he did not just take advantage of him for criminal organization. Listen to names because I will speak with names. The Criminal Code of SYRIZA and the New Democracy took advantage of him: Ioannis Beckris rapist of Piraeus. Christos and Gerasimos Tsakalos, members of the "Fires of Fire", terrorists. Vassilis Stefanian villain. Dimitrios Aspiotis rapist Corfu. Nikos Seragakis pediatrician and he. Also, Aristides Florus, ENERGA. He ate 250m euros caviar and Moet in Mykonos, 'NAMMOs', to know what we're saying. This gentleman and his company, Floros and Milionis. Vicky, stop it. Thousands of others. All these people took advantage of the laws that SYRIZA and New Democracy made, because only about Golden Dawn are they saying. Of course, there's something else. New Democracy has done special law, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, so that you can have immunity with the loans you have received and the bankers who have given you them. It made special law New Democracy not to be imprisoned for the felony, so that all bankers could be acquitted. Of course, thankfully the primary court said it was unconstitutional and we go to secondary school. I'm saying all this because it's not just targeting something that happened and someone used it. Let's just say the whole thing, how we legalise illegality in here, and how some people legislate here at the foot. But, ladies and gentlemen, I will end by saying this: what does anyone expect? We're a nation we don't know, Mr. Loverdo, because I'm a historian and I'm looking for it even now - from what Karaiskakis, Kapodistrias, Melas, Metaxas, Koryzis, Papagos, Christoulos were killed. We never looked as a state to see why the Kapodistrias left. Why have these people been murdered or gone out of the way? This is the Greek state that does not honour its history. So, with such a state, the para-state will operate either nazi or fascist, either prestigious or authoritarian, because for me fascism is mentality, it is not ideology. Don't make fascism ideology. It's wrong. It's mentality, and the mentality needs to be struck. No Nazism or fascism. I have an ideology, which for me is very important: Hellenism. It's much more important and it's light. I'm leaving the rest. I will repeat this once again: let us hope that the Prime Minister will return - and I wholeheartedly hope from my soul - with profits for the country, because I fear that with the mistakes made by the Prime Minister and his company we will have a new unfortunate agreement, a new agreement, - I repeat, because we warn that the Prespecies Agreement was really betrayal and does not allow us to check why it was betrayal - which will really be the betrayal of Greece's mutilation. As regards the 25th mediterranean and east, etc., do you know, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that violations are no longer reported? Do you know, Mr. Loverdo, that it has now been forbidden to announce violations and infringements of our airspace? They're not announcing. We no longer have a violation report. Do you know why? It's this story with the decompression they were saying, because they don't fly our aircraft, because we agreed in NATO from the 25th meridian and east and 25th and west, NATO being an umbrella over us and nobody breaking the rules. Where? At our house. Not to be able to fly over Chios, above Lesvos, over Samos, over Rhodes Greek aircraft to avoid intercepting Turkish. I don't know, but I'm really sorry about what's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u97	Here, Mr President, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, without opening a circle of debate, I think that on behalf of SYRIZA we should put forward a statement. For us fascism and Nazism are ideology and, unfortunately, it is also presented by representatives who make this ideology political. It's not mentality. Nazism and fascism are the question of human rights, it is the fight against diversity, it is the reduction of the right to democracy, freedom, racism, it is anti-Semitism. All this has been formulated historically and has been denounced as a political function. And I think that the decision of the appeal court has also been made in recognition of the autonomy of justice. I would therefore like us to put it as a statement, in disagreement with the opinion that it was sounded mentality, because we owe this temple of democracy to clarify political positions. And in that we are absolute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u99	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u100	Here you go, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u101	Look, my Greek is fine. Maybe my colleague didn't listen well or he doesn't know English well. I said don't make her an ideology in here. Fascism is Italian ideology, it is not Greek and it is clearly doomed. I didn't understand why my colleague smelled. I don't understand it. Nazism and fascism as ideologies should not exist at home and nowhere in the world. It's over and out. But not to make it an ideology in here, because for me fascism, authoritarianity, lack - if you like - of democratic dialogue is also a culture. Whoever figured it out got it, he got it. And I'm not saying it. Let Mr. Famelos look for statements of his own Ministers. Their guys told SYRIZA. I'm not talking about it. I used a phrase of theirs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u102	It is understandable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u104	At the beginning of the morning sitting - I have the Minutes in front of me - the President-in-Office at that time, Mr Kaklamanis, said that the roll-call vote would take place at 10 a.m. That's for granted. We made a calculation. If you have a list of speakers, there are fifty speakers. As you can see, they're interfering because they have the right to political leaders. It shall also be intervened whenever they are requested, but also have the floor of six Parliamentary Representatives. If we go with normal time, some colleagues will not speak. That is unfair and must not be done. That is why my proposal is currently the first five, because there is no such thing as the Mera25 that the parties are going to talk for seven minutes. The next Members will be speaking for five minutes. I say 'five minutes', because if we say six, they will go seven and go by and say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u105	But with tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u106	I will notify the two parties' parliamentary groups, because all those who are then registered are New Democracy and SYRIZA, so that colleagues who are not listening to me at the moment - because they are not in the Chamber - can be notified, and they can adapt their position to five minutes. Seven minutes will have the first five. We shall begin with our colleague, Mr Athanasio Ljupi,.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u107	It is incomprehensible what you are doing, Mr President. Before the debate begins, you are reducing the speaker's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u108	It was said this morning. Can I read it? You weren't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u109	Let it walk and see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u110	"Walk" and we are at 2 o'clock at noon and the list of speakers did not open, because, as you have seen, the political leaders are, as they are entitled to. Listen. If I put your proposal to the vote, we will be at thirty-five, if you agree, and fifteen Members will not speak at all. What's fairer, Mr. Comrade? Is it fair for all Members to speak less than a minute or to speak at ease? I therefore believe that the proposal I made is fairer, is more democratic and I think you should accept it. So you want me to put it to the vote, because there is the declared one, which votes on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u111	No, Mr. President, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u112	So, even Mr Bouba, that is, the first five will speak seven minutes and the remaining five minutes, with some tolerance, and obviously the Bureau has the discretion to distinguish between you and I know that you are from Evia, get one more minute, because there is the special topic of Larco. Mr. Lippe, you have the floor for seven minutes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in the last decade progress has been made on the issue of the environmental sensitivity of the Greeks. Recycling of plastics in Greece is now moving close to the European average, 41.5%, compared to only 10% in 2006, according to a recent valid publication with sources from EUROSTAT.The incorporation of Directive 904/2019 implements an integrated plan for a drastic reduction of disposable plastics. Very important is the fact that the legislation comes in time for everyone to be informed and, above all, for businesses to prepare their smooth transition to the new regime. Measures shall be taken to limit the consumption of certain disposable plastics with a view to reducing waste, starting from 2022. The aim is to gradually reduce consumption by at least 30% by 2024 and 60% by 2026. Since January 2022, all plastic packs of food and beverage, used in mass catering operations, will be charged with an environmental protection levy of 4 minutes plus VAT. This contribution is of a contributory nature and the revenue from its application supports the Green Fund to be made available for purposes consistent with the reduction in the use of plastic products. In 2022 there will be a significant change in retail and mass-focusing enterprises, as will automatic vendors, in relation to unpacked products. The consumer himself will be able to carry his own storage bags. Indeed, in this case food and drink will be made available at a lower price. It is prohibited for food business operators to use disposable plastics. The Hellenic Recycling Agency is responsible for monitoring the disposable plastics market and draws up a report to the relevant Directorate of the Ministry of the Environment, which in turn informs the European Commission of how the process of disposable plastics is progressing. The aim is to change attitudes from local communities with drinking water available in children's playgrounds, sports facilities. Citizens will be encouraged to move away from the use of bottled water, especially if we consider that in Greece we consume two billion plastic bottles of water and refreshment annually. Heavy roles in the change the producers of these products themselves have to take part in an expanded programme of responsibility. They must either participate in a collective alternative management system or organise an individual alternative management system for waste. Through their financial contribution, they participate in the cleaning costs of the shores and public areas of plastic waste. They shall bear the costs of waste collection in public collection systems, as well as the operation of these infrastructures and waste treatment. In particular, producers of fishing gear containing disposable plastics must bear the costs of separate collection of such waste and give financial incentives to fishermen to return the waste of fishing gear. The overall project is moving on many levels. The principle is made by informing the public about the harmful effects of disposable plastics and by promoting the value of recycling. Disposable plastic producers shall bear the costs of raising public awareness by means of news media, via the Internet, by organising conferences and educational activities in schools. An important factor for a successful transition to an economy with less plastics is the familiarization of the consumer. This also helps the mandatory special labelling on packaging. Producers of particular plastics - such as liquid handkerchiefs, filter tobacco products, beverage cups - will indicate on these goods that this is a disposable plastic and, above all, there will be a clear label for the consumer as to how it can be handled as waste. Returning - for recycling - a bottle at the retail point, the consumer will receive a specific guarantee amount for each returning product. The next level is the management of plastic waste itself. The separation at source, i.e. at the point of production of waste - houses or business spaces and so on - is the main issue. Proof, this is the most efficient method. In this direction, today's bill provides that the separate collection for recycling in disposable plastics will reach 77% in 2025 and 90% in 2029. Compliance with the programme will bring about a real change in the way we operate as citizens in the field of environmental protection. To conclude, a small reference to Amendment No 512/37, which has caused the reaction of Anti-Population. ‘LARCO’ has been specifically managed because of its huge debts to suppliers and the Greek State. The amendment deals with procedural matters relating to the tender for the whole of its assets. The necessary steps are therefore being taken to give a definitive solution to the issue of 'LARCO'. In the same amendment, the next step is taken to privatise the TEN. The Energy Regulatory Authority is given the opportunity to adopt the decision on the regulated revenue of the administrator directly for the period 2021-2024. This decision is necessary to enable potential investors to calculate the future revenues of the administrator and on the basis of them to determine their bids. In conclusion, for decades, we have made general use of plastics, without understanding the consequences they have. The implementation of the new regulations will contribute to the protection of marine ecosystems, the development of fisheries, and even the improvement of our tourism product. The Government has demonstrated its commitment to environmental protection policies. We owe it to the new generations, to the future of the world, to overturn - if possible - the damage we have caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Please get the Step ready and call SYRIZA's colleague, Mr. Hara Kafantaris. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have in front of us a bill on a very serious issue and it must happen, the withdrawal at first stage of disposable plastics. I would, however, dare, Mr President-in-Office, to describe the draft law as a pretext and say it - slightly more populous - in introductory terms - a burglary of highly anti-environmental logic and policy which the New Democracy Government has been implementing for a year. In fact, you are trying to restore your green profile by bringing these kind of bills with serious issues that have to happen, such as disposable plastics or the electric movement that was voted on here two months ago. It is also a very serious issue, because electricity is the middle. We see, then, that you are bringing these bills, but the implementation of what is involved - in this particular case, we are talking about plastics - is essentially different and roughly. It's rough because you're forced backwards to change them. You constantly mention, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and this is about the electricity bill, with which you upset the market and, on the other hand, there was no incentive, there was no infrastructure, there was not so much to be implemented with this draft law which we are debating today. Of course, you come to modify some things even today to electricity. We thought last week that this was a cover for an anti-popular, anti-environmental - to say it more correctly - your policy. However, we have seen the amendments. We have seen a new virtually new energy bill. In the light of the right and what needs to be done, the withdrawal of disposable plastics, you come here and continue to implement your policy, the policy of extinguishing public property, the policy of insurmountable privatization, and these amendments - we are talking about LARCO, we are talking about the PCP, we are talking about the TEN - that is, this logic that you continue through the amendments which have not even been discussed by bodies first of all in their interest. So now I come to the draft law and say that in fact, the transposition of Directive 904/2019 is very serious and we had contributed to its wording and to its preparation, and anyway in that directive, when SYRIZA was government. Of course, you are now coming without consulting institutions, which is very serious. We had a debate on the second committee with extra-parliamentary bodies. You did not hear the argument, you did not hear the people concerned with this matter and business. They had some serious objections. Because it is right to incorporate the directive - it is good - but some things should have taken precedence over it. I shall simply say the question of the standards. The European Union itself has not drawn up any specifications. For example, to say about the alternative plastic. How will focusing and recreational tourism be able to adapt to the quick deadlines that you set? Not to say, of course, about the huge problems facing entrepreneurship of this kind, because of the explosion and the course of pandemic in our country, but also of the policy you are implementing for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Mr Ministers, specific specifications, clearly, must be issued for the reusable alternative products of disposable plastics. If this is not the case, each company will use whatever definition it considers to be a good one, and this actually involves a certain number of risks. I would say, therefore, that while the European Commission has not finalised the guidelines - this is expected to take place by the end of 2020 - a few months before the directive was implemented and a few weeks before the implementation of the Greek public procurement, this really raises a serious issue. Furthermore, the draft law does not appear to be in line with and correlate with the corresponding technical directives of the United Nations Environmental Programme, which on the basis of investigations and recommendations from Contracting Parties provide a large number of practical proposals and measures to address the problem of plastic waste. I would also say that in the draft law there are neither economic nor tax instruments, incentives and actions to proceed with this initiative. You have not yet done - this is a serious deficit - an account of how the use of the plastic bag went ahead and what information we have in this regard. We would expect in the draft law that we are discussing, that there is the issue of the circular economy, which is the prolongation of a product life cycle with savings of non-renewable natural resources, with more re-use, recycling and energy recovery. It is the shift from the linear model "production - supply - production - consumption - rejection" to a new model, focusing on reuse, repair, recycling, recovery. In other words, we are essentially talking about another development model. However, the bill contains almost nothing in the part on prevention policies, and that, if you want, is one of the very serious issues. I cannot comment on what is happening at the moment in our home country in the area of waste management. Mr. Ministers, do you have a policy on waste management today, or do you return to old practices in the three-year period 2012-2015, with the PPP, etc., condemned? SYRIZA developed national planning in 2015 and regional plans followed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. The design was based on Directive 98/2008, which deals with the waste management stages. You, in August, hypocritically consulted, brought in a new ECHR, national planning that promotes combustion, large plants. You are privatising the logic of waste management, private interests are served. I come here to say: with the ECHR which was published on 29 September - there was no consultation - plastics will also be burned in the combustion plants, which you anticipate. Here we see your inability to check tire storage units. Recent example in Metamorphosis, with many health consequences and many other areas, which you come and make an argument, so that you can now promote new design.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u116	Ms. Kafantari, put your end to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u117	I'm hanging up. I will present for the Minutes the last quote from a meeting of the ECHR - it is serious - about the work that is taking place again in the Gender. Minister, obviously for you the Race exists, it will remain and I do not know whether it will be further upgraded as a waste management area. I shall table this on the Minutes, and we want an answer, Mr Hatzidakis, for which reason Mr Patulis does not act alone in Attica. Mr Secretary-General, we also want an answer to the Chilean question in Corinthia because you have once been self-government in this region. The area there and Corinthia are rebels. Is that how you want to manage waste? Is that your model? Is that the future for you? On the other hand, you are bringing as a pretext a bill for the abolition of disposable plastics, which, of course, must be done, but how it is done and how it will be used and how it will be exploited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u118	Mr George Mulkiotis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when environmental protection has become imperative, regardless of our different political views, it is a common expectation that both national and international legislative texts should be adopted and adopted, but that they should regulate and protect this very important asset, the importance of which lies in its integrity with man and quality of life. The current draft law on the restriction of plastics is in such a direction. However, the key question that remains unanswered is what will replace the disposable plastic and also what impact this choice will have on the economy, society and of course on the environment. It is certainly not enough to stop a very bad practice and practice only by motivating, anti-incentive or even bans. We need to convince citizens that the new practices and practices we propose as alternatives will be accessible and, of course, they will have at least a smaller environmental footprint. Otherwise, any attempt we fear will fall into the void. As a movement of change, we have formulated concrete proposals for demolition of Greece, which we call on the government, even now and then, to adopt. We are referring specifically to eight points. The first point is to place greater emphasis on the reduction and reuse of plastics. Secondly, to explore the possibility of all activities relating to prevention, reuse, recycling and composting being put at lower scales - I am referring to VAT which is a scourge - and, of course, the scales always relate to environmental and social criteria. Third, provision should be made for urban regulation for separate collection of materials and articles and for plastics, within the limits of each building in a separate housing area. Fourth point, other charging methodologies should be explored. The approach per piece underestimates the actual environmental burden of each product. Fifthly, there should be no distortions in the market by promoting monopolies - we see that - in alternative plastic management systems. The sixth point is to give priority to the transition of plastic-producing enterprises to the cyclical economy. Seventh point, to organize better information and awareness among citizens to reduce the use of plastics, which must of course be started by schools. Eighth point, for the proper measure of the compulsory construction of communal taps with drinking water by municipalities, it should be ensured that the municipalities meet this requirement in good time. We have proposed linking their funding to the proving implementation of this measure and that this should apply until 1 July 2021. Mr President, I am ending this report. I would ask you very much to ask me a question: is there really a secret competition for who manages better and more often to legislate through amendment initiatives and, of course, without any dialogue, without consultation, without information? I am not talking about informing Members, but about informing operators, informing citizens about key and key issues of the economy, the labour market, business. Why else, Mr President, can we interpret the Government's obsession with the so-called good legislature and the state of service, choose the unacceptable form of the amendments on many different issues of the Greek one? Our parliamentary representative, Mr Loverdos, and our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, have been mentioned from the outset, but it seems that the Minister is probably going for a medal in the case of LARCO, too. It goes for the process that puts a tombstone in a historical industry. With an amendment in February he incorporated LARCO into a special management regime with a view to privatising and divesting. The Government has arranged for this 'LARCO' procedure, without ensuring the company's viability, without any care for the workers. I am not referring, of course, to any care at all for those who have left without any plan. It is simply a problem for the government, the 500 million of the company, and the difficulty of fulfilling its obligations. The government puts before PPC, of course, the 350 million that the company owes to PPC. You remember that PPC owes it to PPC by overcompensating the energy which the government had in charge of the New Democracy. The government does not open up the discussion of the critical nickel ore. The government does not open up the critical debate on cobalt next. There is no plan for latterite and quarry, how it will be exploited. There is no question of why we are the fifth country in the world with very important reserves, with critical reserves in Europe and does not raise issues about energy storage technology, which we have in front of us. The government is forgetting, unfortunately, how the company arrived at this point. It is forgotten by the government that after 2000 the Simitis government brought it to a net and profitable position with the energy programme and the 30 million invested at this time. It was a question of administrations for the period 2004, with the hedging. It was a question of the administrations of the 2006 period with the breaking of the contracts and the unprecedented explosion of energy costs. It was a matter of administrations for the works and days, which they then did and reached this point. To finish once, it was not a question of the workers' problems today. No, they were administrative issues that the New Democracy knew very well. They were issues for which there was no strategic choice but to privatise. As far as the amendment is concerned, Mr President, when we say that the government goes by seeing and doing, you see that the path of the double tendering is opened after the arbitration decision has been adopted, which stated that the mining complex of Larymna belongs to the Greek State. However, the extermination provisions mentioned in the amendment on the future adoption of a joint ministerial decision to entrust the tendering procedure for the Greek State, to specify the basic conditions for public-sector, ICTD and the expert's partnership to implement the tender, but also to coordinate the competitive process and also to identify operating costs, are not clear - from the amendment, I repeat - but create many questions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute. It should be noted that, with regard to the competition, you have heard, ladies and gentlemen, I am also speaking to the lawyers, that you are referring to the most important candidate in the amendment and not to the majority, as was provided for in the amendment that existed in February. Is there any precept for some expectations of the government? Because after all this, it turns out that there was a single project. I can't think of anyone else. Selling. There is, of course, no other project to be announced. Is the management decided? Really, ladies and gentlemen, who will at the end apologize for how much this management process has cost? What has management done to maximise, as the amendment says, the transfer price and what is the result? Poverty? Selling? What is it? There's nothing to worry about. No concern for the workers at all, no concern for the professionals who had cooperation with LARCO. No care for retired people. Ten and a half thousand VAT - you heard - they're involved in this company. Ten and a half thousand people in the region, Fthiotida, Evia, Boeotia, Kosani, Kastoria, all outside production.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u120	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u121	The workers don't want the social fund you're talking about. Workers want work and development policies and call it on all tons that it is certain that the development of the competitions will be nothing else, but LARCO will end its operation after fifty-six years. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, unfortunately, the government has not made any public commitment to workers and jobs. Full of indifference. When European governments for the post-colonial era choose to support enterprises in strategic sectors of production, using the support framework, the Greek Government, following the mistakes and omissions of its own bad past, is indifferent to employment, jobs, the use of mineral wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u122	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, I conclude. In this health and socio-economic context, in which our country and its citizens are located, is the government aware of this development well? We at the Change Movement, as you found us across from February, you find us across the street now. Mr President, I would like to state that the Change Movement submits a request for a roll-call vote on the amendment with a general work of 512 and a special report of 37, including LARCO. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u124	You're a Boeon, that's why it's been tolerant. There is Boeotia, Evia, and Phyfotida. The next by Evia MP of the KKE Mr.George Marinos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the infamous amendment brought forward by the Government to speed up the privatisation processes of "LARCO", the Infrastructure PPA and adapting the Greek Electricity Distribution Network to the needs of companies of renewable energy for higher profitability, implements previous anti-grass laws, which are signed by the Governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. They bring the seal of the European Union's strategy to liberate the country's energy and mineral wealth. The main criterion of the amendment, like other government measures, is how it will serve more effectively the needs, profitability of domestic or foreign monopolistic groups in the conditions of the deep capitalist crisis, violating labour rights. Ladies and gentlemen, especially for LARCO, we want to place ourselves. The Government has taken advantage of the special management scheme, which it has imposed and currently regulates issues of the conduct of the tenders for the sale of the LARCO plant in Larymna and the mines in Evia, Boeotia, Kastoria, in the last phase of a very dangerous design. Since 2014, and with the support of the European Union, Minister, the false dilemma "privateisation or closure of "LARCO" has been set in place and the workers have resisted and prevented these anti-government plans in their struggle. In February 2020, with the law that you passed, the New Democracy voted, you opened the pit and you are trying to throw their workers inside and their rights, privatise or close LARCO and workers are resisting again. The workers, who you slander and show them the path of unemployment, have mourned, gentlemen of the New Democracy and the other parties who have ruled, eighty dead, victims of capitalist barbarism, have spit out many years of blood that claim their right, proudly continuing for eight months a hard struggle that has already been recorded in the history of the labour movement. They have won the solidarity of the working class and with them are the people of Central, Evia, Kastoria, Kozani, regions that will particularly affect the anti-government government plan. The Government of New Democracy is currently making use of the negative correlation of power in the House and is voting for monstrous events, as are the previous governments. But your policy, Mr Hatzidakis, ladies and gentlemen of the government, will not be legalized in the conscience of the workers. It will be recorded as a guilty of another crime against a thousand two hundred and over-working families to increase unemployment and poverty in these areas. The Government in the explanatory statement to the amendment seeks to justify unjustified justification, seeks to justify the privatisation or closure of ‘LARCO’, by learning the bankrupt claims of overcompensation of the company, covering the responsibilities of the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA both for increasing the electricity price and the debts shown by the company in PPC, as well as for the gains foregone and the so-called ‘price of the European Union’. No government has given an answer because Chromium and iron and stainless steel have not been exploited to date for the production of stainless steel. You hide that you have all horrificly denounced LARCO and that is what you are using today to promote anti-territorial projects. You gave tens of billions to the large economic groups, advertise the billions of the so-called "Development Fund" and condemned LARCO to economic suffocation, "LARCO" where the main shareholder is the state and shareholders of PPC and the National Bank and could be financed and continued to operate, secure jobs and workers' rights. The possibility is there, but you have made your choices to serve the interests of the major economic groups, to sell the factory in Larymna, the mines in Evia, Boeotia, Serbs, to sell the mineral wealth, to fire and to fly on the road over a thousand two hundred workers. That is why you are preparing, gentlemen of the government, the baits of the so-called'social package' and using every dirty means to strike the unity of the workers. The Communist Party of Greece stands decisively on the side of their workers and families to ensure all the jobs and rights they won with struggles and sacrifices. On Saturday we will be in Larymna, on strike, on great mobilization, along with thousands of workers, with the people of the region. Developments in energy, in LARCO, in each sector, are the basis for substantial conclusions, highlight the need for the anti-grassroots policy of all urban governments, working over time for the interests of monopolies, to strengthen the fight against capital and its power and to claim the many, the working class and the popular strata of power, power to become the energy, mineral wealth, all economic tools, their own social property, to develop by central planning, based on the popular needs and not the profits of the few, where LARCO will have its own strategic position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, too. Please prepare the Step in order to get the floor for the Greek MP, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas for seven minutes. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say today's draft law on plastics, and what this means to the abolition of disposable plastics, but here today we will see how the Prespecies' Agreement takes LARCO and makes it a deliberate metallurgical industry. I will explain how the steps have been taken and how the 'LARCO' will be repurchased by FENI, which is forty miles from the border when it comes to producing nickel-cobalt. We'll see about that, based on the papers. I could get you too much. This fermentation and this operation has been taking place since 2013, it is not present. So there's a company of Israeli interests, Benny Steinmedge. He's a man who's being blamed internationally. He's the fourth richest man in Israel, with a fortune of over 14 billion dollars. He therefore has a company where his own company, ‘BSGR’, together with ‘ABN’, are the main shareholders of a large Dutch company, a colossus. This company since 2015 has created and re-established the "CUNICO" industry in Skopje, forty miles from the border, with a subsidiary, FENI, located in a Skopje city that is 40 km from the border. It's Kavantarchi, as it's called, Skopje. I will submit to you in the Minutes some of what is written for the sales fillet, "LARCO", in Skopje. Because here the sale of LARCO is haircut, it will take place in three stages. Arbitration comes out and says that the factory of Larymna and the mines of Agios Ioannis will be of a public character. So, then, we're going to the start of a bidding contest that Mr. Hatzidakis avoids. We will then go to an open competition, but first the suppliers from the old LARCO - see National Bank, see PPC, see PPC - and if that is not the case, the special separator, according to the Memorandum of Understandings, which do not apply, but we could react - and I will explain why - this will happen. If, therefore, 75% of the energy sector is not sold, as far as LARCO is concerned, it goes with mathematical accuracy to bankruptcy. Fillet to the Skopje, fillet goes to "FENI" and "CUNICO", located in this town, forty kilometers from the border, close to Kastoria and Kosani. But why? Since there is a haircut in the area, the Israeli company that has a factory in Kavantarci, Skopje, will only take the mines - there is the dough - will take the Serbs, take Kozani, take Kastoria. Now that workers are being fired and extinct in Ptolemais and Kozani, they will be working on this businessman with 200 euros a month. We've solved the problem! However, as nickel in our country - and the special speaker said so - Mr Villiardos, very nice and detailed - covers 6% of Europe's needs and 3% of the world's market, and has latterites, who have less nickel, but whose extraction is very easy, the Skopje, the 'Cunico' in Kavartsi, will say 'Nicholian B. Macedonia', will be 'Nicholian' for stainless steel and they will also have brand name. What a beautiful plan! What a good thing to do with the 'LARCO' of scorching interests! I'm not saying it. They say it's evidence. Because Steinmets along with three other Kazakhstann businessmen, who have been talking about this sales since 2013, is the so-called 'roika of industries'. To go a little further to the Memorandum that you say that, on behalf of the European Union, it must be privatised and with a EUR 136 million penalty, which it took from the State. The European Union says that this is not the limit of competition. Oh, no, no, Isn't there a friend industry? Eighteen countries made the Vienna Declaration. What do these eighteen countries of Europe say? When it comes to heavy industries of the highest interest for the Elderly, for Europe, in order not to depend on Russia, public expenditure can be allocated to support them. So within it is Larco, because it has not exploited cobalt over the years, which our President Kyriakos Velopoulos has also analysed, is a key component in the electricity movement. Why? Mr. Villard said so. Finland. Two thousand three hundred tons. That's all. So if Greece also has these reserves, it can cover up to 10% of Europe's needs. So why do we sell Larco? Filipeto, we go bankrupt and Steinmens takes her, who is in conflict with Soros, through a British company, because he says in Guinea he loved officials. In other words, which businessman's is blurred, Israeli interests. But there goes the matter. This is going gradually to Skopje. As I read, it refunctions the “CUNICO” plant in Kavandzi since 2015, because ‘GSOL’ managed to restore the ‘FALCONDO’ plant in the Dominican Republic, which it had purchased from ‘GLENCORE’, and reopened the ‘CUNICO’ plant in northern Macedonia. "NAYTTERIC", Sophocles. Do you know how many publications there have been that have been telling these since 2013 about the fermentation? Didn't you hear Mr. Mioney on the tapes what he said about Larco? He said it, I think, and Mr. Pappas. Didn't you in 2013 hear about the meeting that was held by the then CEO of TIADED, Mr. Emir, who met, as the information says, with Mr. Daskalakis in Skopje? Who was Mr. Daskalakis? Managing Director of the nickel scop company. I mean, we're gonna go crazy here. We have a heavy nickel industry, we sell it to the Skopje and we make it a Macedonian with brand name. Is that extreme? We're filing the evidence in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Boubas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Dozens of publications I will give you with data from merged companies that want to buy the nickel for a piece of bread, because they don't pass Larymna. That's where they don't cross Larymna. A hundred million has been lost by Larymna because she doesn't get the cobalt through a treatment she had to do. Don't the workers fight? In conclusion, with regard to plastics, we have a thousand and thirty businesses. These all helped 1.8% to reduce unemployment in Greece. Look out! They have a turnover of 3 billion euros. In Europe we have ninety thousand disposable plastic companies. They employ about two million people. They have a turnover of EUR 352 billion and have been helping the insurance funds by 35 billion. How many will stay in unemployment? Sixteen thousand workers. I carefully read Mr. Woodar's interview. What I understand is that four to five companies will go to biodegradables. They'll have a vertical industrial unit. The rest of them can't be in competition. So that's for Mr. Hatzidakis. I could say a lot more about the DEDAC, about the DPRK. Only one thing I will tell you about PPC and I shall conclude, Mr President. The collecting companies are taking the world for debts of only EUR 50, 100, because, he says, "you owe PPC by privatization". Because I have said so a few times, the future is the past coming from another door. When PPC took in its hands in 1956 the public good, electricity, there were four hundred private companies. In fact, ten of them had no permission. He did, because the current in Greece was three times more expensive than Europe. Then there was the light, the oil. So in 1956, as a national body, PPC bought four hundred companies to provide this good to the Greek people and not to receive today the collector companies, Mr Hatzidakis, who have privatised what is flying and moving. Energy, airports, we have all privatized to be a protector. This land is now delivered to the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u128	Close, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u129	I'm closing, Mr. President. I once read a saying, "When you're not only interested in yourself, you're strong. When you're interested in others, you're a leader. But when you come back to save the rest, then you're a leader." Leaders are looking, understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u130	We now go to the list of colleagues who will have five minutes, with some tolerance. To take this into account from the outset. Mr Christos Tarantilis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, the adjustment is understandable. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really are interested in facing the imperative environmental challenges, if we really are interested in reversing environmental degradation, we need a direct change of attitude and the adoption of sustainability policies. In this spirit, the European Union adopted Directive 2019/904 on the treatment of marine pollution, aiming primarily at preventing and thus reducing the impact of plastic products on the environment and human health. According to the statistics of the European Union and the Hellenic Marine Research Centre, 80% to 85% of the marine waste on the beaches is plastics, which are unfortunately not biodegradable, thereby threatening marine ecosystems, affecting very serious activities such as tourism, fishing and shipping. With a view to better preparation and adaptation of the Greek market and of the public, the Government proposes the transposition of the European directive into Greek legislation one year before its compulsory adoption. In addition, the Government is aware of the need for measures to promote the well-being of citizens and the sustainability of the planet, as well as the importance of the need to move to the cyclical economy and to a new, innovative and sustainable business model ‘new products and new materials’, recommends the specific action plan. The specific action plan is fully mapped out by the entire range of actions and measures needed for the effective implementation of the law, their timing and all stakeholders with their responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not focus - and over time - on a detailed report of the measures envisaged. I'm sure you know them. But it is worth standing and highlighting some features of the bill, which, in my view, promote important democratic values. First of all, this action plan was drawn up by the Ministry of Environment and Energy after a wide-ranging consultation involving forty-four actors from ten different sectors of the economy, more than six thousand members were represented, a total of three hundred ninety-five proposals were submitted, a number of them integrated. What does that mean? It means that the national target for reducing the consumption of disposable plastic products is based both on dialogue and on social consensus. At the same time, the implementation of the information and awareness campaign "Greece without plastic disposables" is an effective proof that we did not want to surprise the citizens. Also, with regard to businesses and industries, which are likely to be adversely affected by the transposition of this directive, I would like to say that there is provision for individual financial instruments to support this smooth transition to the cyclical economy, which it requires. It requires, essentially, the creation, production of products from non-toxic, sustainable, reusable materials. So the government once again shows respect and support for healthy entrepreneurship, which leads through innovation, certainly, to growth. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Measures are also being taken to promote ecodesign of products, in particular for the development of products of recycled plastic with emphasis on food safety and hygiene this time as well as on the development of alternative products. In addition, an important package concerns the labelling of products which achieve consumer information on the presence of harmful substances in products and information on the ecodesign of products and the use of recycled raw materials. Finally, it is worth mentioning the establishment of extended producer liability programmes in accordance with the polluter pays principle. What does that mean? That waste management costs and waste collection costs as well as costs of public awareness-raising measures will now contribute to the producer. In addition, I would also like to refer to the Green Fund, which is a key tool for the transfer of funds to municipalities and regions for environmental protection actions. We all know that local government is the main pillar of the promotion of recycling, reuse and composting and certainly a very powerful ally of the government for the abolition of disposable plastic products. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us all to bear in mind that the pandemic has multiplied the use of disposable plastics. What does that mean? That now is the time of action, or the return will be too great. I would like to say that today we should all be happy because we are voting for a truly ambitious bill, a bill which shows that environmental protection is a priority, an obligation, our responsibility. It's a bill that brings to tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Taradili. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is moving forward and transforming all our current demands and sensitivities to the environment into actions. It seeks solutions with green, ecological steps that are reflected in the 2019 Directive and we are incorporating today into our national legislation. The objectives are clear: to prevent and reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, in particular the aquatic environment and human health, as well as to promote the transition to a circular economy with innovative and sustainable business models. Through this directive, our country is taking a step further, not only because it takes national measures sooner than Europe, but also deepens up to good practices, motivating the upcoming changes. The problem with unreasonable use of plastics has been known for years. I would like to mention to you that in the European Union 80% with 85% of the total marine waste accounted for on the beaches is plastic. With disposable plastic products, it corresponds to 50% of marine waste. Many studies have been carried out, which demonstrates the danger to public health, as the plastic pieces in the sea are divided over decades into microplastics which pollute the environment, eventually engaging in the food chain through fish. It's not a simple theory, that's reality. In our country we consume one million glasses of coffee every day, while two billion plastic bottles of drinks and water are available every year. It is therefore a wager, and our national responsibility, to protect the environment and deliver to the next generations the land better than we have received it. After all, climate change is a fact that we also experience in our country in a tough manner in some cases, if we remember the recent disasters caused by the severe weather events. On the directive now, what is it that is being abolished? Ten categories of disposable plastic products are removed, such as straws, dishes, drinkers, batteries, knife-pipes, spoons, etc. What's limited? From 3 January 2022, the plastic cups and the plastic food containers are limited to 30% in 2024 and 60% in 2026 with a base year in 2022. How are we gonna do this? Firstly, through campaigns to inform and raise citizens' awareness of the negative consequences of these products. Secondly, through appropriate labelling on those products that reflect their environmental impact. Thirdly, through the imposition of an environmental contribution from 3 January 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of the citizens in this effort will be decisive. Let's change the habits of many years. Let's change attitudes. Let's be the change we want to see in the world. This change will start from each and every one of us. We are all called upon to adopt new and more responsible consumer models. Small changes in our everyday life, such as the use of multipurpose products or disposable products that do not contain plastic, paper plates, wooden knives, will be significant movements to protect the environment. The Government is also in favour of introducing incentives and corresponding counter-incentives to support the application of the provisions laid down by the European Directive and the national measures we are enacting. For example: it is set up by 3/1 environmental contributions 4 minutes in plastic glasses and disposable food containers paid by consumers at points of sale. This will be collected from the Green Fund and attributed to the municipalities and regions for environmental protection actions. For every plastic bottle that the citizen will return to the retail point, he will be returned for participation in recycling with a specific amount of security per piece. In addition, there are dissuasive and proportionate administrative penalties for breaches of individual obligations imposed by the provisions of the draft law on the basis of the type of undertakings liable. The state's will is to apply this law to the full, as was the case with the smoking law. As we owe, we give the necessary time to adapt to the new data to the companies that may be affected by the upcoming changes and moves in order to reduce the negative impact on those affected. We are drawing up a specific action plan for the implementation of the directive, in addition to the law providing for a specific programme of the ESRB for incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises that are adversely affected by the implementation of the directive on the possible conversion of their production process. We are introducing incentives for producers of plastics in the direction of increasing recycling. The more recycled content has their products, the less their compulsory contributions will be reduced to the extended liability systems of the producer in which they participate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are determined to take the necessary steps towards a greener than a political future. Undoubtedly, this bill is ecological and falls apart another myth of left sensitivity. It should normally be voted on by all three hundred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mrs Chapter and the consistency in time. Mr Ioannis Economou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing a draft law that creates the framework for adapting our habits and consumer behaviour to what is needed to protect the environment better and really deserve congratulations to the government, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Tagaras, Mr Arafases, for the proper preparation of the draft law that we shall be voting on today. For the sake of keeping time, I shall refer only to the issue of the amendment to LARCO, as well as our rapporteur, Mr Katsaniotis, and other colleagues have very clearly and fully developed the provisions of the draft law. I shall therefore speak about the amendment which is another decisive step in the direction not only of the last, but of the only solution that exists in order to continue operating the factory in Larymna. The only solution to keep today's workers working and income together with their lives and prospects for local communities in Larymna, Martino, Malesina and elsewhere. The only solution to save the mining activity and the production process currently in place at the plant and, secondly, to allow LARCO to modernise and enter other markets, such as the cobalt market from which it is currently excluded, a market of 70 to 100 million a year, because there are unfortunately no tools to be able to compete on this market. Ladies and gentlemen, every time we talk about LARCO, it is very useful to remember what the environment was, what all the things that led us to the process that we are accelerating today to get to the competitions. I shall refer only to three main issues. First, for many years the operation of the company has been extremely problematic, and LARCO at all times was in danger of collapse and interruption not only of one, but of many different reasons. Secondly, the option that has been followed in recent years, namely to hide the problem under the carpet rather than go decisively and essentially towards a privatisation process, has led to the company's long-term burdens squeeze on its neck and can no longer be tackled. Listen! Deferred debts of over 630 million, inability to find working capital, inability to invest in modernising facilities, worker safety, environmental protection. The third question, the shareholder composition of the company, because this argument was heard here by various adversaries of counter-population, was such, before the special management regime, which made it impossible to save and strengthen it. Who were the shareholders? The State through TIADED, which could not make any money, because these aid would also be illegal as State aid, PPC to which LARCO already owed 350 million, so from its corporate laws it could not invest any more money in the company and the National Bank, which operates in a strict framework of regulations and operation of the banks, which it could not make either capital injections or lending. With all this, ladies and gentlemen, the only realistic, but also responsible attitude for LARCO was to pursue serious private schemes and not aerials of parasitic capitalism to undertake the operation of the factory and the exploitation of the medals. The basic prerequisite for achieving this was and is the period of special management that we established with Law 4664/2020. Mr President, Ministers, Larco for Lokida, but also Central Greece, is a vital issue in general. It is not only the fact that it is the main source of income for hundreds of families in surrounding areas. For the people of LARCO their work is not only the source, the income with which they live their families. For many of them their lives are their own, their experiences are their home. Our government bravely, with decisions difficult to launch and speed up the company's rescue and survival. However, we have a state debt, ladies and gentlemen, to do what is possible for all the workers. It is clear that it is not possible to force the new owner, when it comes to it, to recruit the entire staff. After all, this would strengthen the process of privatisation since its beginning. However, there are possibilities to be included in the social package, referred to by No 4664/2020, so that all the people of LARCO can be effectively supported, especially those who will not be absorbed into the new scheme. The pension facility for those close to pension, allowances, training allowances, the subsidy for absorption as many employees as possible to the new owner, the possibility of absorbing the number of workers in LARCO in the region are issues which, within the limits of the country's budgetary resilience, need to be seen for the whole world that is currently working in LARCO. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We need to look at them, not only because this is how the state has made the state, Mr Ministers, and in other similar cases in the past, not just because we are talking about people who face the range of unemployment in a region suffering from a lack of jobs, but also about the collapse of agricultural income, because of a poor low price situation in the region's products. It is our duty to implement this social package, Minister, because the political system, all the parties that have been ruling over the past twenty years, has its own responsibilities for the business. It's not just those responsibilities. But, badly lies, the truth is that the administrations appointed by the parties, with their failures, with their failures, with their mistakes, played their part for today's route, for this end of the operation. I will end in a minute, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, but it is a matter that is very much about Phosphotia and the people I represent. Today SYRIZA makes a roll-call vote on our choice to speed up LARCO's competitive procedures. In March 2019 - I translate you - he said, Minister of SYRIZA, addressing the European Commission, the Competition Commissioner of the European Union, the following: "The Hellenic Republic is open in cooperation with the Commission in order to find a solution that is compatible with the law of the European Union, namely the law on State aid, respect for the environment and everything else". "In particular..." - continues - "Such significant investors have already informally expressed interest in the company or part of its assets. The Hellenic Republic is ready to study such cases within the framework of transparent and open competitions." I'll submit it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u136	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u137	Today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some people may try to curb the agony of workers and people in Larco and expect them to benefit from it, but for us the only responsible and realistic solution that ensures the continued operation of the plant is to speed up the procedures that will lead to privatisation. Two last things: The choice of a serious investor in the nickel market and the armouring, by depleting the social package to the limits of the country's budgetary potential, of supporting the people of LARCO is what will seal this choice development and morally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u138	Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, it has finally become customary in this final state with the final law that you have brought us and you have celebrated the important things to support them with amendments and to legislate with amendments, because you do not want there to be any consultation. Not because it came last minute and we have to do something quickly, but why do you want to hide from the consultation and from the suffering of the public debate on these issues? That's why he's coming last minute. Finally, we tend to believe that the bill is just the occasion for the big one, for the sale of Larco, the DEDEFOP and the PCP. And when? When in a conservative Europe, which, on the occasion of the pandemic, talks about statism and not about democracies, and at a juncture that shows the value of the role of the public, you are the only ones who are still insisting on neoliberal distortions. Who did you put? The best! The one with the CV. Mr. Hatzidakis has built a career with the sale. All the sales have his own stamp. He's the man of special missions. Now, what it has to do with the bill, I would like to make a few points. It is well known to everyone that the pandemic conditions have mostly hit the tourist industry and also the focus. Because of the pandemic, we have seen that there has been a significant increase in the use of plastics. Here we go to limit - I'm right here - the plastic in the economy. What, though, is the transition plan in this new reality? Have you explained to the businesses what the alternatives are? Is there a financial instrument? These companies are currently experiencing a 80% reduction in turnover. Will you put them in these circumstances? Do you want to close these operations? Aren't you interested at all? A second big issue is the plastic bottles of drinking water. We, as government, have fought a great battle to expel the inappropriate water transported by ships to the islands and have installed desalinations everywhere. There is no longer the ship that carried water to the islands. However, the networks are not suitable, so that the water produced by the desalination cannot be consumed by the citizens. We said, then, that the 5 million years we save from this change, from the boat to the desalination, should go to network replacements. I therefore propose that this programme, which we started and which has been stopped by the Ministry of Shipping and strengthened by resources, perhaps by European funds or by the Green Fund, should continue. In this way, we must give the citizens of the island the right to drink water from desalinations. We tabled an amendment, Minister, on forest maps. I think that no one in this Chamber can question the usefulness of forest maps. Because forest maps offer legal certainty. It is an important development tool and they speed up the investments that we all want today. Our government took the forest maps out of 0.8% and reached 45% of the land and 55% of the land. It is clear that such a large reform would also create problems. They emerged from this reform of decades of failure. One of the problems created was the designation of grassland areas, which were subject to forest legislation and, in particular, to the Aegean islands. In fact, the election of many blue executives played a great deal with this issue on the islands. But what is the reality? We recognised the problem and, in fact, very timely. In 2018, the article of Law 4546 stated that land with building and building permit may be excluded from forestry legislation. In 2017, under article 6 of Law 4467, we solved the problem in the process of issuing an inter-credit act of the plain vegetarian land. In May 2019, with a ministerial decision of the then Deputy Minister and today our Parliamentary Representative, Socrates Famelos, the Technical Counsellor for Forests' designation of forestry land, which declassifies the specific forest with forestry, land if there is no other forest vegetation, if not more than 15% of the land. This decision, in essence, has blocked many areas of our islands, which have been out of forest law. It was a step, which we tabled by legislation on 31 May 2019. But we did not have time to vote on it. Fifteen months now you have not taken this last step to resolve the problem. Fifteen months now these blue strains, which were speaking from morning to night about forest maps, have been silent and do not lead you to move forward. This legislation with our amendment is important because it concerns areas where the presumption of ownership of the public does not apply and for which there is a title of ownership or transfer before 2003 or before 1946.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u140	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u141	I'm closing, Mr. President. In this way, owners of multi-expected and long-term judicial struggles are exempted. These areas will automatically be owned by individuals and outside forest legislation. So you are asking, uh, to accept this amendment, because you will resolve many issues that exist today on our islands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u142	Mr Amyras has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a reform aimed at strengthening the sustainable cyclical economy in our country by evacuating our life-threatening plastics. I imagine we all remember that fabulous advertising spot that first came on television in 1982, thirty-eight years ago, showing that seagull that called on all of us to follow his advice: "No plastics, not garbage in the seas and shores." We all remember it. It was the 'HELMEPA' of the Greek Environment Protection Association. So it's been almost four decades since. We Greeks, unfortunately, were drawn away from the seeming needs of the time and become the very good and fervent lovers of plastics. The evidence is shocking. Two billion plastic bottles of water and refreshments are consumed, we use Greeks every year. Two billion plastic squids, we also use each year. We use three hundred million plastic cups of coffee. The worst of all, perhaps, is the twenty billion stitches, but nipples that smokers throw away, or some of them - in the most amazing places, from Olympus to the seabed. After talking about the bottoms of our seas, let's see some of the news that's been out many times, unfortunately, in newspapers, media, websites. Dead of suffocation found a nasal cortex south of Samos. He was stuck in his esophagus with a plastic length of one metre. These are elements from the announcement by the Archipelagos Institute of Marine Protection. Other news: Dead sea turtle, carrot. Her stomach was full of plastics and bags. This information from the organisation 'ARCHELS'. "ARCHELON" is a non-profit organization that mainly protects the turtles and in Glyfada has an informal, small hospital that heals from the blows of propellers and especially from the plastics that the turtles swallow, because they consider these plastics as mice that are their favorite food. Another news shocking: Plastics from the Dardanellis arrive and are located and gathered in the Corinthian Gulf. All of this proves that plastic has a leading role in the disruption of ecosystems and biodiversity. That is why it is a very big reform of the current draft law that we are discussing, because it has the PSC to reuse recycling, ecological transformation in the first line. The provisions of this draft law are also important, so that in time industry can adapt to the new data and in time to preserve all jobs in this area, but at the same time it also gives incentives for recycling to producers and at the same time, it strikes the bell and leads us to new habits. I would therefore like to add, Mr Ministers, to Article 4(6), that the universal ban on the use of plastic cups and food containers, i.e. cups and bowls of plastic with the lid, should be extended to all the hotels in all inclusive. Second, in the catering areas, in beach bars and canteens on the beaches. Next to the sea is this restaurant, the canteen or the beetlebar, we're talking about. It needs more - I would say - to strengthen the avoidance of using a single-use plastic next to beaches. As also, I would like the universal ban on disposable plastics to be extended to those catering shops located in areas of great ecological interest, that is, in lakes next door, to national roads and to environmental parks. Finally, I would like this universal ban to extend to canteen, canteen and restaurants in the general government. It's a great sign. No one would have a problem with that, I believe. So we need to go even more bold, if not now, at least next year, in the next quarter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be right out. I would also like to support a parliamentary amendment, which I have tabled with a general number of 517 and a special number of 42, which says that the possibility of municipalities and regions being able to create bicycles, pedestrians, soft-moving areas, in order to avoid agglomeration and to provide alternatives for the inhabitants of the cities to move within their town, of course by avoiding the horn pandemic as far as possible. This arrangement existed and exists in Law 4688/20, which defined as the length of the duration and end of the year on 31 October 2020. I propose to the Government that they accept this amendment and give citizens the opportunity, but above all the municipalities and the quality of life of municipalities and regions, to decide whether to maintain or to increase their pedestrian roads and bicycles. So it is time to think differently, according to the spirit of this draft law, which calls for the opposition to vote for it, because it is a bill, the exile of the one-use plastic, is a regulation, a decision that will do good not only to us today, but also to the next generations tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u144	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Apostle Evangelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, the major issue for us at this point is Larco, a company that, if it was able to survive for more than fifty years, has not been dominated by the financial result that you, colleagues in the New Democracy, have established in your political approach, but the overall, social and economic cost-benefit balance. That is why it makes LARCO an important source of economic life for the six counties in which it operates. I think, Mr Economou, you, too, at least, enjoy what I have heard in your position. Of course, what did we do? We just kept the company running, and at the same time we had guaranteed jobs. But what is going on with the amendment? It concludes the sale of LARCO with a tender, which you had of course prescribed as a government in the plan to privatise, without taking into account what is going to happen with workers and jobs. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen, when we were discussing this draft in this House, the most important problem we had was that there was no guarantee of workers. You told us that this matter would be discussed with the next investor, which, of course, seems to have been found, but has not committed itself. Thousands of two hundred employees in LARCO and so many others in contractors are not guaranteed. In fact, the six counties, particularly Phthiotida, Boeotia and Evia, are on the way. You must bear in mind, however, ladies and gentlemen, that the inhabitants of these regions will not be left open. They will be supportive of the struggle which the workers are already in, and of course the Saturday meeting will be particularly popular with the participation of all local communities. I'm on my way to the directive. Of course, the reduction in the impact of plastics on our country must also be a matter for our country. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have reservations about the high targets you set and the effectiveness of the infringement control mechanism. Really, where does that optimism come from? Do you do it for communication reasons? Let alone when in this particular area - I mean the area of waste management - all our country's commitments so far have not been implemented. That's where we got high targets. But what about urban waste? Since for the rest there is no management plan only 80% of the landfill is driven to landfills, while the remaining 20% goes to recycling, without it being certain that this is done as a whole, since about half of the contents of blue bins are waste returned to the HYTA. In the end, do you intend to serve them by burning them? Because this question has already upset local communities both in Aliveri and Volos. I close with the regulation on infrastructure and the TEN. At the time that an open war has erupted between the producers of photovoltaic and wind turbines, you are giving the buyers of the DEPA infrastructure and the TEDDEDEE the fillets of energy, presenting your real face, which is no more than the completion of the tradition in the private sector of the sensitive fields of energy and mineral wealth. What else can it show, ladies and gentlemen, for example, or prior knowledge of the TEDPS revenue at a level of four years? Is this not considered to be a key component in safeguarding the manager's aspiring buyers, let alone when the contest is before the gates? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, while pandemic has created an environment of uncertainty about the functioning of the private sector, unfortunately you are still enthusiastic about the privatisation of national activities. So don’t ask us for such consents, which de facto operate at the expense of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u146	Mr George Kotsos will be followed by New Democracy, then Mr. George Kotonias will speak. Mr. Kotsos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listen with interest to the objections made by the Minister of Staff on the surprise of the Government with its two amendments. I'll agree. The government is amazed! It welcomes the citizens through the credibility and consistency they see. Because if you were to take the trouble of reading the election programme of the New Democracy, you would see that all that comes and is legislated in the House and that you are constantly surprised whether it is about education, whether it is about development or now with the Ministry of the Environment, is well described, but also with details in the election programme of the New Democracy. Consequently, our Government is moving with credibility and speed, fulfilling all its pre-election commitments. And so it fully justifies the very large majority that the Greek people gave it in the recent elections. I'll come to the bill now. I think we all admit that climate change is present and its consequences are becoming more and more tragic for our country. As you know, we saw the floods hitting countries in central Europe and said that all this could happen elsewhere. We saw these extreme phenomena happening in other areas and thought that we were unavoidable. So here I, as a Carditian, must testify to the very great agony, but also to the terror with which we have all faced these consequences in Carditsa, through the very great disasters that our prefecture has suffered from climate change. It is true that we must fight to protect the environment and, above all, to reverse and reverse this path, because, from what I read, the Greek economy loses around EUR 26 million a year from pollution in the sector either tourism or fishing or shipping. However, the effects and economic consequences of dramatic changes in climate change are now estimated at hundreds of millions of euros and sometimes lives. That is why I think and very much appreciate it, and it is clear to all of us that this bill, which promotes the proper management of plastics or the nullification of plastics which are a dramatic burden on the planet, is moving in the right direction, because it is clear that the unreasonable use of plastics, in particular the incorrect management of plastic waste, creates huge problems for the environment and the ecosystem, whether by sea or not. It is therefore a one-way road to emphasise the minimisation of use and the reuse of plastic products and, of course, their recycling. It is particularly important here in recycling that the role of self-government, which has taken bold steps - must recognise and certify it as former mayor - but more is needed, because recycling in the blue bin yes, but it may include the four categories - plastic, glass, metal and paper - but we must now have separate routes for each of them and especially for plastics. Of course, there must be a system of incentives and counter-incentives for the businesses which produce or promote plastics. Above all, however, what is being imposed is awareness and activation of citizens, because whatever legislation, whatever legislative initiative, and if we take the right direction, if we do not raise awareness, we do not activate society and, above all, if we do not make it a part of this process, I very much fear that we will not be able to achieve our ultimate objectives. I would like to make a reference to both the question of water quality and the possibility of providing quality water in public areas, where local government can play a substantial role in making use of resources from the Green Fund or other financial instruments so as to provide and provide the citizen with quality, clean water in all public areas. The bill also has a provision concerning the extension of the completion of small hydroelectric projects. It rightly does and I tell you this on account of knowledge, because, as you know, small hydroelectric power is being carried on in streams, in water streams, and there have been very great catastrophes in all hydroelectric, small hydroelectrics, which are under construction in the Karditsa prefecture. It is therefore necessary - and rightly so, Minister - to show the completion of this process, as well as the involvement of individuals in the certification of the completion of the projects of renewable energy sources, because there is a great deal of delay from the TEN. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of our country is fully linked to our ability to protect and exploit our unique natural and cultural environment and that is what we are doing as government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u148	Mr Kotronis Georgios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech from the Larco amendment, since Larco is operating in the area I represent. LARCO for many years and with the responsibility of many administrations and many governments accumulate debts and technical problems, so that it has reached a border point and at any time at risk with a 'luketo'. The New Democracy, with concrete and bold initiatives, has launched a process of finding a solution which either agrees or disagrees at the moment is the only realistic way to go if we really want a solution and if we really care for the workers, unless we close our eyes and make populism. In the proposed amendment, what really is going on? An effort shall be made to speed up the activities provided for in Article 21 of Law No 4664/2020, namely the procedures, firstly, the transfer of the assets of the special management ‘LARCO’ and, secondly, the leasing of public mines and the concession of the factory operated by ‘LARCO’. It is known that the company, by decision of the Athens Monomele Court of Appeal, has been specifically managed by the company since 28 February 2020, due to a general and permanent inability to fulfil due financial obligations to suppliers, insurance institutions and even to the State, and has been appointed a special administrator, with a view to administering and leading it to the disposal of its assets in coordination with the master of the mines which is the Greek State. The Ministry considers that, with the immediate start of the tender for the transfer and leasing of assets and mining rights, it implements the last solution for its rescue, ensuring the continuity of nickel production, for the benefit of the national economy, but also for the benefit of the local society of Malesina, Larymna and Martin. The aim is to open the tenders directly by the Greek State and the specific management of LARCO and, in accordance with this design, to complete the cooperation framework with the GOI, in which the Greek State has commissioned the tender for the use of public information. There is no doubt that those who come from the region are living the accumulated chronic problems of the company and, of course, we are seeing the efforts to rescue LARCO with the methodology that is being followed, which seems to be the only appropriate and perhaps forced, since we are in five, since the lack of maintenance, the fatal accidents, the debts to everyone makes the industry a future-free industry. Some may disagree with the way the government sees the rescue. However, more important is the result and result must be the functioning of the LARCO and work for the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, neither the state nor any bank nor the European Union can today provide financial support for LARCO. All of us who have been living with the workers for many years and with the twelve thousand satellite professions moving around LARCO, a strategic industry of importance for our country, and on the assumption that the non-happiness, where the closure and unemployment of all of them are, we expect the best from the Ministry, which, of course, needs to show the necessary diligence, speed and efficiency so that LARCO can be rescued for the benefit of the national economy and the workers in either the new business or the relocations to the general public to continue to work for the benefit of the wider local society of the three counties. For those who cannot find another solution, provision should be made for early retirement or subject to OAS programmes for workers close to retirement. As far as this legislation is concerned, I have to note the following. The New Democracy's sensitivity to the environment starts from the top. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with every ton of election, but mainly post-elections as Prime Minister, with a number of laws as government, proves that care for the environment, green development, is not a matter of sign but of political will and applied policy. Besides, electric mobilisation, liberation and a fair transition, the "Security" program and now the abolition of disposable plastics are indicative of some measures that our Government is taking to protect the environment. I omit the rest of the time, Mr President, and conclude by saying that the bill that we are considering today covers the whole range of the production, disposal, consumption and control of disposable plastics and is an additional step in the implementation of the overall New Democracy policy for a substantial, real green development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u150	Well, thank you, Mr. Kotroya. We will now give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis. Wait a minute, Mr. Gregoriadis, get the Step ready. Until you take the floor, let me make an announcement. A request for a roll-call vote from the Change Movement on Amendment 512/37 was tabled shortly, 'LARCO Arrangements, DEPA restrictions and others'. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak at all about this draft law, since Mr Kriton Arsenis may well be the special person on the ground, and I think he has clearly described the problems of your environmental policy as a government. I will only tell you that I am very afraid that this incorporation of a directive also has to do with the minimum task that the Greek Governments are fulfilling every time to the European Union and because they are forced to do so. It is obviously in the right direction that disappearance - I must say - from our lives of all kinds of plastics and let us start from plastic bags, but the Greek Government, unfortunately, has been showing for a long time that it has only been doing its duty to the European Union. And that's not a word. In my opinion - in my humble opinion - it turns out from the moment that the main way of dealing with garbage in this country is by burning it, when we all burn it - we burn plastic in it - since our recycling is firmly screwed, held, strung at 18% to 20%, since there are no separate recyclable materials, but everything goes into a same blue bin, which has been abolished in all the favoured countries of the world. So let me not deal with all of this, since Mr Kriton Arsenis has said so well in our opinion at Mera25 and say a few things that are crucial for our country, our country at the moment. I'm starting with the pandemic. What's the matter, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, with our dead? Our cases are at levels that don't justify so many dead, they don't justify more than five dead a day. Recently, we've almost an average of seven dead a day. Some days exceed ten. It is not justified in relation to global statistics. It's not coming out. Mr. Dermitzakis, who is our regular professor in Brussels Molecular Biology and participates in experiments that constitute the front of humanity's experiments, has stated very well - in SCAI, not in our friendly medium, in yours - for several days, a week ago, that he counts on the statistics he knows as a scientist that the incidents are more than nine hundred and a thousand times a day in Greece. You know, I don't chase witches, in Mera25 we don't work at all like that, we're Europeans. We are not saying that you lie to us and hide cases and 'principal horses'. No, we're saying that even now you're showing criminal negligence in carrying out tests, even now you're doing so few tests that four hundred cases come out a day, and they're over a thousand. And we don't say it, Mr. Dermitzakis said so. I also tabled a question to which the Minister for Civil Protection would reply tomorrow, for the well-known reasons he will not answer. To wish him out of the quarantine fast and healthy, without insulting the virus. Mr Chrysochoidis cannot answer either his State Secretary, because he will accompany the Prime Minister in Thrace. It is fair, then, that the man will not respond, but I cannot avoid saying, since I have the opportunity of this Step, to remind all of us of the authoritarian face of this government, which showed it in the 'good morning', bringing it as the first bill - as if our four-fold bankrupt country needed - the abolition of university asylum. We saw it again at the trial of the Golden Dawn, where, after the footage of Mr. Aegiropoulos - the well-known Aegiropoulos, which I mean, the world-famous documentary, Mr. Aegiropoulos and above all political positions, I hope, for all of us here - after the footage of Mr. Aegiropoulos, who took a camera from the right angle, it is clear that the police alone creates the incidents, only the men of the MATs attack, they do it all by themselves, and the Chief of Parliamentary Party, who said to you - not to repeat - that it is a problem for our democracy. It's not our personal problem, because they happened to go kill Mr. Varoufakis, men of MATs. It is a problem when a man of MAT responds with such disdain and swears shitty people who lead a parliamentary group. He could be far-right or far-right, Mr. Varoufakis could be one of you liberal. It has to end. So, not just does it seem that the Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis - otherwise dear - took no lessons from this, but the next day it fell to the wood - apologise for the expression, but we saw footage of the students, 15-year-olds, 15-year-olds, 16-year-old and 17-year-old high school students, who were forced out of the Ministry to be with their hands up. I'm guessing he saw them all because they're running footage. The news didn't show them, especially your friends of adjacent channels, but now thankfully there is the internet and something saw the Greek. This didn't come up, they were beaten outside the Ministry of Education and outside Mall, they were beaten the next day. And it has not arrived, but today at the pan-educational rally, they are systematically beaten and not just beaten, they have made sure that the rally is not done. These are goblinic methods - and I am ashamed to say it - you must immediately abandon them if you want to be called neoliberals. What did the Greek police do today, ELAS? He grabbed the students and made them physically controlled, and indeed - apologies for the expression - angry physical control, i.e. pre-compressing physical control, to scare them out. Also, in addition to almost physical control, he threatened them, as the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece said. Thirdly, masks our children haven't seen on your own responsibility. I don't know if it's one, the other, the third, but it's state responsibility. We now learned yesterday - and we learned from news from friendly media, from MEGA specifically from Mr. Evangelatos - that masks until Christmas are not expected to come. Why? Because - it says - the process is too slow, a competition needs to be reopened, someone wins again, then rebuilt to the right size. Allow me to say that when it comes to your children or us, everyone's children, it is not at all serious. The fact that we all wanted to protect their lives - I have a seventeen-year-old daughter - to take masks from our valley - and especially from us MPs is not a problem, but for people who are starving and believe me, is more than two million people who are under the poverty line in our country - is a huge problem, it is not a small problem, it is a beastly problem. And after Christmas, it shows an unprecedented failure. This is a matter of life and death. After Christmas, will you solve it in two days from the moment it came up? Wood, instead of masks! Today at the pan-educational rally, we hope it doesn't fall too much wood. Also, to say what the KIC Special Rapporteur said - to repeat it - closed, the police shut down the metro station in the Constitution. Do you know why? Every time that happens, we all know why it is so that the straight students and teachers can't get to the university rally. I say to you this: this is not a democracy. The people must be able to go wherever they want, they must decide themselves if they want to protest, we must not shut them down. Other governments have done so, and always on the pretext of the security of the general population, but also on the pretext that it is a deprivation of fundamental freedom. Now a big issue of today's bill is, as all the previous speakers have said, the tragic type of legislation, because here we have no indefensible amendments, which we are used to, although it is a tragic type of legislature, and you know that very well. You accused SYRIZA of legislating as a Qualifying Opposition to legislate tragically because he was moving on these methods. Now, not just you're sharing them, but you've made them your flag. Because here, look at it, it is not two, three amendments, which sell out public property, that is to say, privatise some of our public-owned filletes, which was first impoverished to be sold out, such as 'LARCO', I mean, for it in detail. So it is not just that these amendments come, it is that in this case, as other Members have said before me, another half of the bill - to say exactly - it is hidden in the amendments. Why doesn't the government bring it independently as a bill? Because then there will be consultation - which has not been the case for these privatizations - on the sale of public property - in the opinion of Mera25 and also on the time. I will not have twelve minutes to share between the bill we are discussing today or the timeline for which I consider that I want to speak today and put "LARCO" in, to put the subsidiary of PPC in. I'll be able to speak freely. That's what you want to avoid. This is also a blow to democracy. Don't do it. Believe me, it's a short-sighted way to see things. Nor will you benefit from the closed station in the Constitution - the students will eventually go - nor the looted checks - with the forgiveness of the market expression - of the police officers in our children will benefit you, nor will this manner of musket - with the forgiveness of the expression again - and pressed legislature. What you're going to do in "Larco" is a crime. I would remind you that LARCO is the largest ferro-nickel industry in Europe, which is perhaps exploiting 90% of the total look on the continent. LARCO, Greece, has a monopoly. We have a monopoly, and we'll give it away. We expel it for a piece of bread. The government today, with another amendment - at the last minute - opens the process of selling the mines and granting the LARCO plant to so-called "investors" from those who can simply make it a vehicle to play on the stock exchange, that is to say, to make these well-known games that lead to the bankruptcy of people on the stock market. We do not even have a guarantee that the people who will take LARCO will reoperate. The government's plans do not mention the protection of jobs anywhere or, of course, an assessment of the costs to be incurred by any investor. That suspects us he'll take it for a piece of bread. The Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, has been celebrating this development for days, presenting it, as has the previous colleague from your place as the only possible solution. I mean, it's not perfect, but what should we do? At least he'll save the company that won't save her. But when it comes to an industry that I recall employs a thousand two hundred workers in five counties and twelve thousand jobs depends on it, when it comes to an industry that brings about 300 million net currency a year in the country, when it comes to selling the nickel and cobalt mines, estimated value close to 20 billion, then we can only demand clear answers from you. This is not about the great walk of Athens, with which the prime nephew did its fun by scattering 2 million euros in gypsies, which were dried up on the asphalt and colored asphalt, which was dug more quickly than the "sonou", it is not about the training programs of 80 million Mr. Brutsi to learn how the mythical "scole of sound" is written. This is the sale of one of the few heavy industries in the country, these are workers who are made redundant, since they have literally built this company with their blood, having, on average, a deadly work accident every year. This is a sale of the largest nickel and cobalt deposits in Europe. So we demand answers from the government and the liquidator for the cause of the current situation, because you know it was not the turkeys of the workers, to say it directly, who charged this company. It wasn't the turkey they took once a year and they shared fifty workers to eat her ten. They were the celebrities of the boards which you - New Democracy, PASOK, I don't know if SYRIZA got there, I wasn't in politics - you were appointing. These boards went bankrupt or charged the company so painfully. So make sure you don't tell us that the company is a sinner. Sinful was your administration that made the company troubled. I shall end, Mr President, in a short time, speaking of something that concerns me personally. As you know, I am a Member of the 2nd Division of Attica and I live since I was born, fifty five consecutive years until today, in New Heraklion or Heraklion Attica, as it is called today. Heraklion Attica, from the day before yesterday, counts terrible disasters. Usually when I ask you for a favor, I don't ask it for an area where I'm elected to avoid suspicion. I asked it for Ithaca, for Carditsa, for Kefalonia. I don't care to be re-elected. I'm not a professional politician. I'm afraid I'm in trouble with something that's very hard for me to do every day. But I'm interested in my children not having fascism. That's why I'm here. So I'm telling you, without a trace of vote, that in Heraklion disasters and damage to public spaces may not be huge. And I'll tell you exactly what I mean. There are damages to an open basketball court that has been completely destroyed, a playground that half the city lighting pillars have been destroyed, they have fallen over trees in a very densely populated area with everything that this implies for damage to homes, balconies and cars, which, of course, have lifted up their respective hikes. They have not collapsed homes but have detached roofs and in this sense there are not too large, huge damages, but too many small ones. Be careful, what we in here used to call small, damages of EUR 250 or 300 or 500 in some house may indeed sound small for our budgetary sizes, but for many of our fellow citizens, after ten years of your memorials, they are huge and it is really impossible for them to restore them. Some should cut out of their food, they should not eat and their children to restore something that is necessary to keep their home from being a clear vine. The compensation announced by the government relates, as always in these cases, only to damages of objects within houses and not to outdoors, or terraces, uncovered and courtyards. So, for example, there are no damages to tents, solar water heaters, but also to those of our fellow citizens on the street because they had no garage of trees that fell on them. If these cars were not insured in private insurance companies for natural disasters, they would have to pay them out of their pocket. It's obvious they're not to blame for what happened. They mustn't pay in their pocket. The state has to pay for it. I contacted the mayor of Heraklion Attica, Mr Baballo, who is my friend years - we are not the same ideological position - and he is a truly active mayor. Three days now it has not stopped running, recorded damages and problems and planned various solutions and restorations along with all of the municipal council's orders. However, as I said, after the eleven years of your memorial service it is well known that the funding of the Local Government agencies has fallen into Nadir. So, as well as the Municipality of Heraklion Attica is poor anymore, he can't do much. That is why both the municipality and we, all the parliamentarians, I believe, of the North Atlantic, regardless of party position, are asking for the municipality to be declared immediately in an emergency situation, which, as the mayor of Heraklion told me, has been committed or, if you prefer, your Minister has agreed. Please do something now. It's urgent. In conclusion, I should like to ask again for this: do not violence, Mr Chrysochide, Minister for Civil Protection, to our students. They're going to learn letters. They took occupations in schools, and, believe me, with their occupations, they have limited too much of the bomb that Mrs. Keramea's decision was to open up schools so expensively and even with masks that were all over the head. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Gregoriadis. We invite Mrs. Gara Anastasia to Stepma by SYRIZA. Mr Zebilis Athanasios, Mrs Perka and Mrs Dunia will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the loss we have had today, the journalist of George Delastic. A man fighter, with continuous presence and intervention in the political and social life of our country. The spirit of George Delastic's writing and his radical views will be missing from the public sphere, will be missed at a very critical juncture for information and public speech. Have a nice trip, George. I should like to thank all the Members who have spoken in this House for their support for this report. Over the last few days, ladies and gentlemen, as expected, the condemnation of the Golden Dawn justice as a criminal organisation was dominated in the public sphere. Apart from the yielding of sentences - large or small, each characterizes them as he believes - in the leading Golden Dawn group an entire debate has been developed on who has washed the Golden Dawn all these years. Because of a limited period of time today I will not analyse the cases of the gold dawn. However, it is useful that we all remember Mr Baltako and his actions, the New Democracy MPs who were looking for cooperation with a'serious Golden Dawn', other New Democracy MPs who did not vote for the lifting of immunity of Cassidy when he attacked my colleague Mrs Canelles, even Mr Samaras who blocked the anti-racist law that would wrap the Golden Dawn before the murder of Paul Physsa. But more usefully, it is also to remember all those paid media that presented the Golden Dawn killers as the heroes and protectors of the neighborhood and the grandparents, rinsing the crimes of the killers vulgarly. And unfortunately, some SMEs even today continue to exalt and express racist or fascist speech, routing fascists and their action. And unfortunately, these media are rewarded by the government through the Pecca list even today with thousands of euros. But let us now talk about the environmental 'planning' which is being attempted by this bill and which concerns reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. Let us make it clear that this is not a new piece of legislation or an innovation of the New Democracy Government, as the Minister wants, but a European directive that we have been negotiating for several years. However, this directive has been dressed with a beautiful wrapping account to build a green environmental profile of the New Democracy Government. But he wants courage. It would like the New Democracy Government to assume a green profile, when it has recently voted the environmentally sound law, has abolished the management bodies "NATURA", when it has effectively cancelled the forest maps and even when it is anticipated to burn waste, burning even recyclable materials. At the same time, the Government of New Democracy has frozen the circular economy strategy and the recycling policies launched by SYRIZA. Indicative of the size of hypocrisy, cynicism, the audacity of the government that characterise it today are the amendments tabled to the House, which obviously have nothing to do with the recycling of disposable plastics, nor with the protection of the environment, but concern the sale of "LARCO", "Structural Infrastructure" and TEDO, amendments that are revealing New Democracy's policy: a sale of public property and a green communication wrapping. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has today managed to bring to the Greek Parliament a serious European reform with enormous carelessness and ambiguity. The result: confusion in the market, industry and consumers. A characteristic example of curiosity is the statements made by Mr Hatzidakis in October 2019, when in order to appear as a so-called innovative, innovative and green, he has quickly stated that all disposable plastics are withdrawn in June 2020. June passed, but the announcement was not implemented. But it upset the whole market and users. And it is not enough for the Minister's hasty announcement, while the guidelines have not yet come out of Europe for the definition of products belonging to disposable plastics, it is now bringing a "fuss" bill. Market operators using corresponding materials, as well as the focus, tourism, recreational industries that have to adapt to the reduction of plastic use, do not know in what direction to be directed. Unfortunately, you are making legislation with an adverse impact on entrepreneurship, but also on consumers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. How do you really think the domestic industry will adapt and plan the necessary investments when you have not given the right direction? Already market operators and production are stressing the lack of financial instruments to adapt to these functions. They speak of ambiguity, inaccurate, increased costs, distortion of competition. The Government of New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, not only has not implemented what has been accomplished by previous governments or are under way, but brings a bill of ambiguity, gaps, lack of planning and a logic of "seeing and doing". So this bill - and I close - on disposable plastics is nothing more than a green pretext which tries to cover the government's political choice of burning all waste. The Minister appears green when energy public infrastructure is sold out, when electricity is increased for consumers and citizens and businesses every day and when energy poverty is increased, when environmental protection is limited every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u154	Mr Zebplis Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of time and because of local interest, I shall refer exclusively to the issue of 'LARCO'. The debate on the role of the state and privatisation could perhaps be the subject of ideological controversy over thirty years ago. Today in the entire free world the state is not considered a good businessman. Much more in our country where the public sometimes becomes vicious, clientele and corrupt. For all of this, I do not think I need to argue, when we have an example of Larco's fracture, for which there are proven and time-consuming responsibilities. So I think the first question is to get the company rid of the morbid state hugging that only brought her sins and sufferings. Today LARCO, in the context of a process of rapid, transparent, legally regulated and compatible with the decisions of the European Union, can attract serious interest from healthy business patterns that will proceed to the strategic investment in modernising mining and production, as well as the development of new methods of enrichment. With an ambitious sustainability plan that will reduce energy costs, it will improve its environmental footprint, the company can remain operational in the new era that climate policy is shaping, aiming at green nickel production. Unfortunately, in the last five years they have been lost to exploit the country's precious mineral wealth, resulting in the company from 2015 onwards not even publishing balance sheets. On this occasion I would like to ask: Really, where is the famous plan for the reconstruction and rescue of Larco, announced twice by the Minister of SYRIZA, Mr Stathakis? Why don't you table this plan, instead of submitting a roll-call request, so to tell us the rescue plan and Mr. Stathakis, but what former Prime Minister Tsipras had submitted in 2017 to Lamia? They let a company sink into debt and an impotence. ‘LARCO’s association announcement dated 10 January 2019 denounces the company’s regular depreciation and states that ‘EUR millions are spent on private machinery leases at the same time as the company’s machinery is depreciated’. The announcement continues: "In a conscious government, administrative and management direction, we are experiencing the greatest disgrace in the history of "LARCO". These denounced the club, revealing a 'part' of millions, but also the fact that SYRIZA, supposedly cut off for the public character of the company, had stopped the company's machinery and entrusted all the jobs to private contractors. That is why we call on them to stop saying other words of hollowness today, to stop shedding crocodile tears in the shell of a looted "LARCO". We have been inherited by a company that has been dived into debts - and Members referred to in figures, I do not need to repeat them - and a company that could not be helped by anywhere either the bank or PPC or the public. Thus, there remains only the effort to reconstruct the company, which, in order to succeed, should be based on its great wealth and wealth, I do not mean the mines, but the people who have a great deal of experience in one of the most difficult metals in its technical processing. These workers have contributed in adverse conditions to the development of our national and local economy and are therefore worthy of respect for all of us. And I'm sure there's a way to support them. My colleagues from Fontaine were mentioned. I don't have to do this, either. In Evia, the "LARGO" is mainly active in the region of politicians. Politics, known as being at the heart of the killing theory of August 9th. Moreover, it is well known that Evia has experienced several waves of deindustrialisation, which is now being plagued by unemployment, poverty and tolerance. Five months ago, another key hit came with the suspension of the "TERNA WHITELITHS" operation, which employed two hundred and twenty employees in the central Evia region. So, today in Evia there is no room for either an extra unemployed or another job lost. The functioning of LARCO, with the hundreds of workers, transporters, associates and suppliers, seems to be a necessary survival treaty for my place, and I hope this legislation will contribute to the maintenance of jobs and the sustainability of this great and historic mining company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u156	Ms. Perka Theophistis has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. We don't know where to start today. The amendments are rainy. For many years we have been in this position, even a positive reform with the government handling it cannot be voted on because of lack of preparation and mismanagement. However, these unacceptable amendments are also within all of them. It is really regrettable that the country's energy policy has been institutionalised by amendments. And not only for sloppyness, such as the article on PPC, the article on electromobility, for certified evaluators, but also new bills, and you are bringing again amendments. However, for 'LARCO', the satisfaction of requests from interested parties for the tender is apparent. In particular, Minister, we are concerned about the exceptions shown by the Mining Code. Did you have to put a zero price on the rental of the mines? And of course, not a word about the workers, no warning about the safeguarding of jobs. However, what is terrible is that the first act of privatisation of the TEN starts with an amendment. It's an obsession you have, Minister, with the privatizations. It is a pity, however, because you are losing a valuable company for the country, with certain profits and an impact on consumer costs. As far as the bill is concerned, I will say very little. We have told the committees and, unfortunately, this time does not allow us to say much. It is certain that you have not worked and have not been involved in the development of the soil, the preparation of the parties involved, information and awareness-raising. Let us say that a market-related reform and consumer habits cannot go through and be adopted by a online consultation. It takes more work and more time. Regardless of our position, of course, the most important thing is that you do not have the support of producers and consumers, since you managed to burn the project before it even started, confusing and confusing the market. There are, of course, no European Commission guidelines, yet we do not know what the alternative product is so that production can design and the rest of the market can know what to use. You did not answer the industry's questions about a disposable biodegradable plastic and an environmental contribution. Let's not be fooled. I won't say any more about the bill. As much as you want to pass the Green Government's profile, with your NATURA policy, the abolition of forest maps, the promotion of waste incineration and the current empty bill, only green are you. Of course, I will not miss the opportunity to talk about defoliation and a fair transition, where there again is a green wrapper. Usually - and in this bill - you're cheering, because they first come to Greece, something earlier than it needs to come. In fact, so early you announced the frustration without any preparation. So green that, if you take a rough look at the master plan, which at last after a year and a half you presented to us, you will see that you risk the energy commitment of the region to natural gas without a clear alternative and a timetable for release. Although there is an assumption for long-term planning, taking into account the attitude of the European Commission, a key part of the design is based on natural gas, which ends in 2050 as a fossil fuel. No participation of societies. Even the governance model goes after consultation, then, in second year. In other words, this huge energy transformation is taking place in the history of society, which would ensure a fair transition and alleviation of inequalities. What is impressive, of course, is that you are also focusing on fast victories. Quick wins, as you say. There are no basic prerequisites for the project itself to confess, without spatial planning, without land restoration or even studies. Nothing. Where are all these big photovoltaics going? What land will be left to farmers or other residents' activities? These don't look anywhere, the maps don't have coordinates. Of course, there is a risk that the land to be restored by means of the recovery mechanism will be allocated to large investors, leaving little land to the inhabitants, aware of the jobs they are supposed to have, when the alleged investments come, is made with a rough calculation, and yet the jobs that are being lost are still missing. Finally, the question for the region and I put it clearly is what vision we have, we want an area in the Sahara - Asia - huge projects of billions of large investors, supported by public funds, in specific economic zones, without working or environmental rights - or a more European approach, which focuses on infrastructure projects and which, after all, makes tools for participation, funding in infrastructure, digitalises services, leaves local communities together with investors to build on them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am going to need some more time, because I have seen a last-minute amendment - Mr Amyras has tabled it - and I have the impression that it is about the long walk. Listen. To extend to something, first, it must be successful. Secondly, a pilot project - the Association of Greek Transporters - has limited time, otherwise it becomes a permanent situation and has an impact on the life of the city and the region. What project? What the Mayor himself says came out - did not come out, 2 million euros in infrastructure, which will be dismantled. Also, it just fell yesterday on a big walk. What exactly are you going to do? Not to discuss the total lack of planning and, of course, as usual, a project that is very serious, that is, sustainable urban mobility plans, mild mobility, but which want whole regenerations, designs and studies. A little more scientific to legislate on things. I conclude by saying that I beg you, Minister, to approve the extension of the secondments of the Environmental Licensing Directorate, the IMIPA and the Directorate-General of the Board of Inspectors and Auditors of the Ministry of the Environment, do you at least take this harmful option, abolish the Special Secretariat of the Board of Inspectors and Auditors of the Ministry of the Environment, and degrade it to a Directorate-General? No control anywhere, immunity. These do not fit in a European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u158	The next speaker is Ms. Dunia from New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a very important bill concerning the environment, namely our home, our house, which we often forget to take care of, putting its foundations at risk. The indifference of the majority of people about the nature and the planet we live on is unfortunately evident. Indicative of this indifference is the excessive use of disposable plastics by the citizens of most countries. Greeks consume one million glasses every day and more than three hundred million plastic glasses a year. At the same time, in our country, two billion plastic bottles of soda and water are available every year. Ladies and gentlemen, to reverse this sad image, our national legislation comes to be brought into line with the provisions of Directive 2019/904 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on reducing the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. Indeed, as a country, we incorporate this directive into our national law earlier than the deadline for transposition set by the European Union, in other words earlier than July 2021. This, apart from a rare fact in our parliamentary history, is also extremely useful in order for the market and the citizens to know and adapt in time to the new data. It is also explained, since we have the largest coastline in the European Union, so the clear shores and seas affect our country's tourism product, fisheries and sustainable development. But let us move on to the subject of the directive we are considering. This Directive concerns disposable plastic products which accumulate in large quantities on the shores, river and lake beds, at sea and at sea. These decades of plastics are divided into microplastics that pollute the environment and are unfortunately entering the food chain. In order to avoid all these tragic environmental consequences, we are called upon to vote on this draft law laying down measures: To prevent and reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, particularly on the aquatic environment and human health, but also to prevent the creation of waste and to promote the transition to the cyclical economy with innovative and sustainable business models, products and materials. Thus, since 3 July 2021, ten categories of disposable plastic products have been abolished. Among these are: straws, plastic plates, plastic knives, batteries and others. In our country, we have decided to apply this ban six months earlier to the public sector. Later on 3 January 2022, the plastic cups and the plastic food containers are limited, with the aim of reducing them to 30% of 2024 and 60% in 2026. Finally, it aims to reduce plastic pollution from fishing gear by 40% by 2025. This reduction, ladies and gentlemen, is expected to be achieved through campaigns to inform and raise public awareness about the negative consequences of these products. With the help of appropriate labelling, these products will reflect the environmental impact of the products as well as the imposition of an environmental contribution from January 2022. Our culture change will still help us some incentives for recycling, but also for cost savings, because, among other things, every plastic bottle that the citizen returns to the shop that bought it will be paid back as a reward for his participation in recycling a specific guarantee amount. And in order to avoid excessive consumption of bottled water plastic bottles, public taps will be installed for free supply of drinking water in all municipal sports facilities, but also in playgrounds. There is no doubt that these new rules imposed by the directive will have an impact on producers of disposable plastic products which will continue to be placed on the market and on catering companies. Among other things, there will be an obligation to label certain disposable plastic products. Limitations and prohibitions for the placing on the market of certain disposable plastic products will be provided. Plastic bottle production companies will have to partially change their production to produce plastic products with a specific percentage of recycled raw material. While concentrating companies will henceforth have reusable alternative products of their single use and will have to make a discount on the consumer carrying their own reusable glass. To alleviate these negative effects on those who need to be affected, we are preparing a specific action plan for the implementation of the directive providing for a specific ESRB programme for incentives to small and medium-sized enterprises that are negatively affected by the implementation of the directive. At the same time, we are introducing incentives for producers of plastics in the direction of increasing recycling. The more recycled content has their products as much as their compulsory contributions will be reduced to the extended liability systems of the producer in which they participate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, in particular the Ministry of Environment and Energy, is making every effort to bring us up to date environmental initiatives such as: "Greek without plastic disposables" with information actions and public awareness and many others. Their allies in this race must all be. First of all we, and then the citizens, must adopt a new more responsible attitude to the environment. Learn to use multipurpose products such as: Reusable glasses or hot or even select disposable products that do not contain plastic. Only if we change the environmental perspective radically will we be able to avoid the major risks that exist if we continue our unconscious course so far. If we don't do this, our house will collapse. The choice is ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Dunya. Mrs Kallipe Vetta has the floor now from SYRIZA. Mr. Baralicos, Mr. Vlachos and Mr. Papaliou and Mrs. Skondra, next five minutes will be followed. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy on disposable plastics is once again revealing how the government legislates: roughness, communication storm, neoliberal ideas and diffusions of public goods. Even in an incorporation of a Community directive which is an obligation for all European states to set up a set of settings of triumphs, green headlines and ecological profiles. What's the reality? I will outline it on a few lines before focusing on the amendments tabled and due to a time pressure on those relating to LARCO and TEDO. Community Directive 902 of 2019 was already in place at national level on SYRIZA, which incorporated it into its final strategy for the prevention of plastic pollution. I would remind you that under Law 4496 of 2017, which incorporated, on the one hand, the best green policies and, on the other, the views of operators, we had a happy example of consultation, documentation and implementation in the field of alternative packaging management. Today, instead of consulting, clear protocols and specific specifications, we have the inclusion of provisions for withdrawal and reduction of the use of plastics, without even knowing what we are talking about. The Ministry submits today's bill without including the necessary technically permissible or forbidden specifications by increasing the uncertainty of both the suppliers and of the business of focusing on tourism and recreation a few months before the application of the law. If this is not a slap and a communal exploitation, the words will have lost their meaning. There are no precise definitions of both withdrawal products and alternative products. So the bill ends up being a declaration of intent. At the material level, market information and the promotion of green policy, we have no progress. More generally, ladies and gentlemen, the policy of the government is lacking environmentally. Within a few months: First abolished NATURA. Second, he's canceled the forest maps. Thirdly, it brought amidst summers without any consultation on burning even recyclable waste, while by summary procedures the National Waste Management Plan was approved by the national waste management plan, excluding from their discussion bodies. It has made it possible for individuals to evaluate and approve environmental studies. At the same time, it calls for a fair transition, development plans and defoliation, and when there is still no guarantee of funding for the restoration of land and the decommissioning of fossil fuels, not to talk about the complete indifference of workers and businesses waiting for something tangible and not the general declarations of the so-called master plan. In order to open up a small parentheses, the green transition is not a neutral technological decision. It produces results in humans and natural environments. It can hurt the weaker or function evenly. Unfortunately, for you the transition is a process of strengthening the few and indifference for many, and of course for the regions of western Macedonia and Megalopolis. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] For LARCO and TEDO. I now come to the most scandalous part of the draft amendment to LARCO and TEDO. The Minister, in a so-called consensual way, called for our support for the adoption of his Community directive, which, as we have already said, did not see to it that it shielded it with specialized tools to prepare the market and the consumer. At the same time at the last committee meeting last Thursday, he just informed us that he would table these amendments. We are, of course, used to the manner in which the government was legislated, but the surprise was much less when we were only informed on Monday about the contents of these. For LARCO, you are changing the provisions of Law 4664 of 2020 by deleting the term "public auction" obviously in order to respond to the requests of your interlocutors who are interested in a more closed and controlled procedure. However, the major problem is seen in the exception to the provisions of Article 84 and Article 144 of the Mining Code. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need some more time. In Article 84 the legislator provided for a minimum amount of mining rights, thus covering the public interest. The interested party, who will not have been the result of a public auction, as we have seen with the previous change, will be able to negotiate even if he does not pay any mining rights to the public. In Article 144 an exception shall be introduced to ensure that any interested party does not commit to invest in the exploitation of the country's mineral wealth. The result is that mines can go bankrupt and close with what this implies for national wealth, but also for jobs. I would remind you that LARCO employs a thousand two hundred people, while indirectly it creates four thousand jobs as it operates three latterite mines and one lignite mine. It is the only such large vertically integrated steel production company in the European Union, while what produces it, about 100 thousand tonnes of ferro-nickel. The deportation doesn't come instantly. The significant delays in payments began from the end of 2019. Tens of suppliers and transporters in the region of Western Macedonia await repayment of the amounts due. The result is that the LARCO lignite mine in Serbia is depreciated. In combination with the Prometheus mine which, due to your choices, is the situation in the area is dramatic. Let me tell you in particular that 45% of the GDP of that region depends on these two mines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u162	Mrs. Vetta, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I shall end. Thank you for your tolerance. Also by Law 4664/2020 you have legislated to reduce the wages, you have allowed the non-payment of gifts and allowances and continued the policy on the degradation of the company. We had already warned when you were able to resolve the fact that the procedures for closing the company had been in place. Today, unfortunately, we are confirmed. Unfortunately, the same is true of the DEDENE where a provision is inserted for the methodology for calculating the required network revenue. In this way, you are actually going to take the first step towards privatising the TEN, a profitable network, while at the same time you benefit from European funds to sell it to the interested parties, who will get something good, profitable and public to ensure certain profits. We are clearly voting against the amendment and we are with the employees of the company in the struggle for the rescue of Larco, together with the protection and preservation of the public interest. Because contrary to what you and some people think that everyone is the same we feel there is a public interest and we must defend it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u164	Mr Baraliacos Xenophon has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the directive of Union law is being incorporated into the national legal system today, which stipulates how to deal with a major environmental challenge. On a planet that is finite all indications suggest that its resources are depleted by geometric progress, and in some decades they will touch a border threshold. The adoption of a more environmentally friendly agenda and the implementation of best green development practices is therefore unforgivable. And if this challenge today seems invisible and far away, our descendants will not have many generations away from today will be faced with the spectrum of overexploitation of the possibilities for self-conservation of the earth. That is why entrepreneurship and green growth, economy and environment are on the same tracks as complementary and fertile, without one factor squeezing the other, but just together to overcome obsolete housing and to distribute new opportunities and innovative proposals. The adoption of measures to prevent and reduce the impact of certain plastic products in particular on the aquatic environment and human health shall be the subject of this draft law. If we consider that 50% of marine pollution comes from disposable plastics in a country such as Greece, which has one of the largest coastlines throughout Europe with its continental trunk surrounded by sea, an integrated legislative intervention, such as today, with incentives for the reuse of our daily products and their recycling becomes imperative. Areas like my prefecture of Pieria, with a seventy, about, mile [7 km] coastline, will preserve one of their most valuable comparative advantages. The natural beauty, biodiversity and the clear shores and seas will gradually cease to face the range of pollution and pollution ready to welcome a critical volume of visitors and tourists without increasing the environmental footprint. Since June 2021 Greece has been aiming to be a country with fewer disposable plastics, to launch this model change and to develop sustainable and innovative economic standards in line with environmental needs. Specific products, such as strawberry, plastic plates and plastic cups, which appear to be painless in our everyday lives because of their ease of use in substance are an extremely harmful factor for the overall imprint of environmental pollution. We are voting, ladies and gentlemen, on an ambitious plan which is not just a follow-up to the European directive, but aims to exceed the deadlines laid down. As the Minister said, we want to make progress a year before the end date. We are therefore providing the necessary time to move and adapt to the new data to all and to public bodies and businesses and to citizens. The aim is to phase out by providing incentives, but where necessary by imposing sanctions, in order to increasingly dominate an ecological perception. In conclusion, you will allow me an ideological reference. For many years we gave the field of ecology on the left, which was uncontrolled to environmental folkism and ecological sensitivity. And this myth is falling apart. We are responsible for shielding the environment without suppressing the business. We don't choose one or the other. Both are on the same hierarchy. In our perception of the environment and economy, not only can they keep up with harmoniously, but also create new development prospects. This is the leading challenge of the next decade in the world. We choose strongly to be at the top of developments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Baraliaco. Mr Papaliou George has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law incorporates the Community directive on disposable plastics, limiting the use of such daily products and reducing the impact of plastics on the environment. It is not, of course, some innovative green initiative by the government, as all the speakers of the Partnership say, since it was the government of SYRIZA who took part in the negotiation of the directive, incorporating it into its strategy to prevent pollution from plastics, to strengthen recycling and to move to the cyclical economy. In this context, the national action plan for the circular economy was also adopted and the law on reducing the use of plastic bags was passed. Let us not forget that the present government has already given a sign of writing in the field of the environment. For example, the resolution of the environmental duster L.46852020 which abolishes the NATURA entities and cancels the forest maps, introduces the thermal treatment (bursing) in waste management and even recyclable waste, since they cannot be placed on the market, the non-implementation of the policy ‘pay’ in recycling and waste and the non-approval of a national plan to prevent ‘production’ of waste is sufficient evidence. The Community Directive provides for the further shrinking of the use of single-use daily products, through their total ban, of the imposition of fees or the compulsory use of recyclable materials for their placing on the market. However, in the current draft law, the Government is attempting to make the most of this European reform, in order to hide its strong anti-environmental image and build the image of the most green government in Europe. But even this reform has not been prepared for us, and it is for this reason that its implementation is being transferred to ministerial decisions. It is also true that the issue of disposable plastics was preceded by a desecrated, uncertain, vague, problematic and fragmentary government policy which announced that all disposable plastics have been withdrawn since June 2020. The study of the Ministry responsible to prevent the directive for communication purposes has been a source of consortia. Finally, a rough bill with many ambiguities is being introduced, which creates further confusion in industry, the market and consumers, since no specific regulations or timetables are provided. In this context, there is no precise definition of disposable plastics falling within the scope of the consumption reduction, and the definition of ‘alternative product’ is also missing. Is it defined as what is reusable or not part of the disposable plastics, which is also referred to as a common ministerial decision? Apart from the industry and market operators using corresponding materials, they are also confused by tourism and the focus and recreation they need to adapt, without knowing the direction in which they need to move. The bill is foggy and opaque, as is the framework for the cleaning of disposable plastic waste, which is carried out by the municipalities that will be obliged to create environmental infrastructure, without being clear whether they will be financed from the fees for the use of disposable products. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the so-called green transformation is necessary and is considered inevitable, since the Community funds for the Recovery Fund will be directed towards it. However, it is necessary to create another consumer culture, another behaviour involving environmental education and information for the citizens, in short good preparation, so that it does not prove to be 'principal horses' by governments such as the ND, which are not related to green growth and the cyclical economy and simply incorporate their moves into grids of other powerful interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Papaliou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u169	The bill, as I said at first, is a pretext. The introduction of the bill is the pretext for introducing two serious amendments - in fact, it is two self-evident bills - so that we do not have a debate and for these amendments to be voted on in secret and inspiringly in mosquitos. The two amendments which, of course, are not procedural, as Members of the Com mittee have said, concern the divestment of 'Larco', 'DDP' and 'DEDO'. These amendments are revealing the government's policy: the sale of public property and green communication as a wrapping-up. In particular, the process of defining the regulated revenues of the manager is accelerated by a decision of RAE, which is the first arrangement for the sale of the TENs, without this sale resulting from a Memorandum of Understanding and, at the expense of the country's energy transformation. This is an extremely negative development for the country and the energy sector, thus losing a critical and profitable asset with an impact on the cost of the consumer and on supply - a donation of profits and external financing to the buyer and all this without guarantees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u170	Please complete, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. Since the start of the country's governance by New Democracy, depreciation has also been attempting to depreciate the TEDO. In this context, it is offered - it is donated to the buyer of public property, to the detriment of the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u172	The Minister for the Environment and Energy has asked for the floor, Mr Hatzidakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the withdrawal of disposable plastics is extremely important for the protection of the environment, it is European policy, it is an ecological policy, a green policy and I am very pleased to recommend it today to the Greek Parliament. From our programme statements we have noted that we will move quickly towards the adoption of this draft law. We are doing so by the first in the European Union and I think it is good that Greece should be one of the first topics within the 20-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven. This bill is a daily bill, as the ten categories of disposable plastics that are withdrawn concern everyone, all consumers. The plastic plates, knives, forks, batteries, stirrs, straws, flasks and all these disposable plastics are widely consumed, but unfortunately also contribute to wide contamination of the seas and in general the natural environment. It has therefore been agreed, since 2018 at European level, that their withdrawal will take place. And I really hope that this evening with Parliament's vote on disposable plastics, these ten specific accusations, to be clearer, will indeed be in the past as from 3 July 2021. I hope that, regardless of what you will do in the entire bill and in the amendments - I say this to colleagues in opposition - at least the articles relating to the basic body of the bill to vote on them. I think that green policy should unite us all, because it is an environmental policy, a policy for our children. We, as we have explained, are also taking a number of additional measures to implement the provisions of this bill which have to do with sanctions for those who do not comply. However, we are also taking additional measures, which are relevant to plastics which under the Community directive are not withdrawn, but which must be limited to their use in the coming years by 2025 or 2030. There, we are not just setting targets. We provide for specific charges, so that they are discouraged by consumers, and we also provide for a recycling guarantee system on the basis of which one is specifically for plastic bottles purchased from any point of purchase - supermarkets, minimarkets - it can be returned to the point of purchase and which one has paid back, so that in practice we can encourage recycling. I am sure that this bill will also be embraced by the vast majority of Greek citizens, especially young people, who are obviously very sensitive to the environment. Because the environment is particularly the future of young people. I do not go any further into the provisions of the bill because the rapporteur of the New Democracy analyzed them by Andreas Katsaniotis. They were analysed by other colleagues. There has been a debate in committee. He spoke and will speak more in detail then the Deputy Minister, Nikos Tagaras. I would just like to respond to a few of the objections that I have heard in the committee and today by colleagues from the Com mittee on Disarmament. You once again argue that there has been no dialogue on this bill. Apparently, it's the classic pattern. What's the sure thing in a placement of a Congressman? Among other things, there was no dialogue. Come on, there's been a very extensive dialogue. I should like to ask the Members in their notes not to repeat this from now on. We also proved to the committee that more extensive dialogue was not possible. We started in December last year in contact with the agencies. Individual meetings were held in private with the institutions. There was an electronic questionnaire involving all interested parties on the market by hundreds. Comments were sent. Most of these comments were adopted. There was also an electronic consultation in the summer. What didn't happen? What could be done for this bill in terms of dialogue and not done and you say there was no dialogue? You can find points of disagreement. I'm not telling you it's the perfect bill. Don't say that thing that I don't know why you insist on. I note that, if you like, not as a minister or a Member, but as a citizen. I think it is not good for the level of dialogue, especially within the House, to repeat all the time and monotonously something which has been devastated and, indeed, with our own suggestions. The other thing that is said is that there is no public awareness. There's no campaign. How is there no campaign? We've been starting for a while. We are working with the non-profit Foundation "Athanasios Laskaridis". We have attempted to make this public in the media as much as possible, not only with my own appearances, the Deputy Secretary-General, the Secretary-General, but also with the free spots that the channels put forward, as required by the existing legislation. There is a similar campaign in social media. And it will continue this campaign, which is not a government campaign. It's a green information and adaptation campaign for the world in this effort. What more do you want from the point of view of public opinion? The third argument, which is again called a singletony as a cassette, is that technical instructions are not taken into account. We told you that we were participating in the committee. The Ministry's involved. The Office of the Minister is actively involved in the Committee for the Adoption of the Technical Instructions of the European Commission. There is no cause for concern that the general provisions of the bill will be outside the technical directives, which will come and regulate very specific and yet not a political issue. You insist on making this criticism. In any case, you make your criticisms. You'll vote the way you think. We have a quiet conscience that we are adopting a bill that is yet another vote in the green policy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Speaking of a green policy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, it certainly did not go unnoticed before I heard you that you almost all tried to question it from the standpoint of counter-population. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, are we going to observe the facts? Or any events that don't suit us, do we pretend they don't exist? Why is it, or is it not true, that when this government took over, the country was twenty-fourth in the management of waste in the twenty-seven of the European Union? Is it or is it not true that Attica's projects for integrated waste management and Corfu by SYRIZA officials at regional level have been cancelled with the SYRIZA government to be a spectator, while today you are criticising us about the Race and the problem that we inherited by pretending to be the prosecutors? Is it or is it not true that while so far they have been operating from a recommendation from a Greek state, in any case, in the last few decades since these units have been in place, six units of integrated waste management have we been on the boats seventeen? As you make remarks, you know time will be relentless with you. By the end of the year, we will come and make the bill, ladies and gentlemen, and we will put on how many you have done. Zero, you just left the unit of Epirus that I signed to complete and the unit of Elias which you did not interrupt. You didn't do anything else. From there on, you were theories and delays. And today, you're pretending to be the prosecutors once again. Because you have been struggling with politics. You always see yourself in the role of the prosecutor. This also alienates you even more from your own voters, because there is also a need for elementary contact with the reality before one makes a criticism. You also criticised the government's environmental policy in the week that was presented by the 'Security - Autonomous' driver, which is now the largest in relation to all previous 'Security' programmes, a green programme which also has the biggest aid ever, because from 40% and 45% we now go up to 65%, 75%, 85% to aid. Is that something inaccurate I'm saying? You criticise the government that it does not have a green agenda when we are the government of liberation with design and with benefits from the local society. While you, for five years, have been a government, you have let a defoliation develop without a plan. Why is it inaccurate that, while we have had thirty teratrators a year from lignite in 2009-2010, we have come to have ten, namely 1/3 of lignite production? All these years, haven't you ruled half of the decade that leaked? What specific measures have you taken for the lignite regions? And we now are not only promoting liberation, but we also have a EUR 50 billion programme, as long as the programme of Western Macedonia is ten times greater and we are hearing criticism from those who went through an asterisk and without any plan to defile all the previous years without even understanding it. You are criticising the government's environmental policy when you have had a programme for reafforestation and fire protection from the European Union since 2015 that you took over and those years that you have made the government, we have not only managed to absorb any euro, but neither have you been able to reconcile a programme, even with one euro. Nothing! Zero in absorptions, zero in contracts. In other words, you are openly proclaiming the protection of forests and of course stable prosecutors against the New Democracy when we in the fourteen months that we are ruling have succeeded and have found over EUR 100 million for this programme, EUR 100 million. You are critical of the government's environmental policy when I was in Naxos this week with your local MP and we inaugurated the electrical interconnection of Naxos, which, together with the rest of the Cyclades, obviously contributes to a greener energy policy, as PPC's fugitives are closed down. It was a program that proceeded over SYRIZA's day. I would like to blame you, but we who are accused, are moving on, expanding it and the electricity interconnection of the Peloponnese - Crete - will also be closed at the end of the year. And when this programme of electrical interconnections is completed, not only will all PPC figs have been closed, but the Greeks will have saved on an annual basis 700 to 800m euros in the infamous YKO, in the services of general interest. We, too, did not have a green policy that brought the electricity bill a few months ago and was already embraced by Greek citizens, especially by young people. The bikes, which you said the bill was classic and cover the rich, are 90% of the programme's credits and programme subsidies. So we do not have a green policy, we go ahead with the waste. We who do not have a green policy are moving forward with the largest 'Security'. We, which do not have a green policy, are moving forward with a huge programme for liberation. We who have no green policy have absorbed reafforestations, and you have not. We, which do not have a green policy, speed up the submarine connections. We, which do not have green politics, are moving forward with electricity. We in the European Union, too, are the first to act on this very ecological policy with the bill that we are adopting today on the withdrawal of unpurpose plastics. We respond with works in your destructive and demagogy. We respond with works and works by the Government of New Democracy will be here to avenge you every day, to avenge your criticism, your exaggerations and your demagoguery. And by saying this about the body of the bill, I would like to make a few comments now on the amendments. I am not going to focus particularly on the amendment, which concerns, among other things, a very important reform to simplify the licensing of renewable energy sources, so that investors are not hostages of the TEN and with out-sourcing, as has been done years ago and in town planning, that a certified engineer can unblock the process and allow the investment to proceed properly. I would hope that you will at least vote in favour of this amendment, although I have heard criticisms about it in various respects too. I would like to dwell on the other amendment on privatisation. I am sorry, but some people are surprised at this amendment, such as the golden fish which is unfolding in its glass every three and a little savagely and sees something new. What does it mean to you in relation to this amendment, in relation to the privatisation of the 'Infrastructures', the privatisation of the TEN and the privatisation of 'LARCO'? It's our proclaimed policy. We have already brought laws on this whole policy, and it is just here that some technical arrangements are in place that are just before the opening of competitions so that these competitions can proceed unnecessarily. You disagree on the substance of politics. In fact, I can hear it and we'll talk about it and then. But you must disagree and be surprised that a government is promoting the privatisations that have made them its flag, that it also brings some technical arrangements for this, and that is what you consider to be about a parliamentary coup, when the amendments have been tabled in due course, I do not consider it to be serious. To talk about the substance, of course, but the point of order we discussed this morning and I think it seemed absolutely how unfortunate your position was once again. So let's see the essence. Infrastructural infrastructure: We are moving forward with some clarification amendments so as to guarantee that he is the final investor will be a major investor who will remain in investment and will not be someone who will simply speculate, in the negative sense of the term, and will then go away by selling to someone else. But I really cannot understand how many months have passed and we are discussing this particular issue, especially SYRIZA, because he raises this issue. Today, to be fair, I have heard KINAL have this issue. In other words, the New Democracy and the KINAL agreed to privatize the TEC. SYRIZA then came and privatised the DESFA. What's the D.C.E.L.D.? In just Greek, the first Cousin of DEPA. One is a manager, and the other is in gas distribution. While at times all three have agreed to privatize the DESCA, now suddenly it is a deposition crime by the DEPA. This really is not explained, and I think that those who resort to this policy are exposed. I have heard the same thing about the DEDEN. It's just the same thing in the electricity field. Whilst SYRIZA had previously privatised IPTO, which is again the first TEDEN cousin in the field of electricity, now comes and says: 'Is such a crime possible, such a sale? Give 49%?' and even without management over there, as they did to IPTO themselves, in the case of the DEDEN. Is that consistent? Is the same party that voted until May and June 2019 concrete measures or is it another party and has this party suffered political amnesia now? Of course, it is not the first time that he has suffered political amnesia, because this phenomenon was observed after January 2015, who forgot that he had said until the eve of the elections and then did but. Now obviously you've forgotten what you've done and come here like you're a party starting out of nowhere. Of course, the same applies to LARCO. I have heard here that the 'LARCO' is about 'constantine flurry'. Interestingly, only the same ones who said this view, namely, that it is a "very fertile bride" which will be privatised in their speech by many people on one hand said that we are selling out a "very much" bride and, on the other hand, said "if you find an investor and no unemployed workers are left". But if she was a "very fertile bride", why do you say "if you find an investor"? Because you know within you, because in Greece you are all living, that apparently LARCO is the most problematic Greek company in operation right now. And how can it not be? It owes six hundred million euros, it's been a problematic company for thirty-five years. It owes thirty-five million euros to PPC. In other words, it owes 80% of the total debts of the high-voltage companies, all the high-voltage companies in Greece in PPC. 80% owes them alone to "LARCO". It has an environmental function, because it does not pay for the end of pollutants such as other companies, because it does of course not have the money. He physically infects Evia, but that's where I didn't see any environmental sensitivity. In any case, it is a highly problematic company, the most problematic in Greece. A solution has been found with the European Commission. I forgot to tell you something. What's to say first? In the midst of the problems, it owes it back to the public, a hundred euros, forty million euros of illegal state aid that the Court of Justice of the European Communities has prejudicial to and, of course, has not returned to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u174	Who gave these?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u175	Who gave these? You gave it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u176	So while there is a decision from 2014, and we apply this decision so that we close this issue and have a new start for the company with a new private investor, so that the company can move forward in the face of free burdens, what do you want? The perpetuation of this situation, the perpetuation of debts, the perpetuation of problems with the European Union and the Court of Justice, the perpetuation of insecurity with workers? In any case, I really understand this to a certain extent because it has this ideology, that position. I won't judge her now. You know how far he separates us. But, as Mr Yiannis Economou said earlier, SYRIZA particularly speaks on the subject of "Larco" is also a very great exaggeration. I am not saying this about management, about the administrations you have appointed, about the fact that in the election period in May - June 2019 you were negotiating to give this company the most problematic increases in employees, but I say this because what you, today, are voting against, you have committed to the European Commission. Mr Economou earlier tabled this letter - I can also present it, if you like, in the Minutes - Mr Tsakalotou, who had sent a letter to the European Commission on 28 March 2019 to Mrs Westager, the Commissioner responsible for competition and noted on page 9 that the Hellenic Republic is ready to work with the European Commission in order to find a solution to the law of the European Union. In particular, ‘Such potential investors have already unofficially expressed their interest in ‘LARCO’. So you did not write to the European Commission, but you were already talking to investors - Mr Tsakalotos says here in writing - to sell the company or certain assets from the company, only certain assets of the company. "The Hellenic Republic", according to this letter, "is ready to consider all these proposals in the context of a transparent and open competition", that is to say, what we are going to do, you committed yourself to the European Commission as early as March 2019. Now, within the framework of the policy of amnesia, you have forgotten that and you are once again representing the honourers. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Only three words: Wei you, scribes, and pharmaceuticals of SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I should start by saying that today is a day that is characterised by movement on the issues of public health and education. This means society is struggling because basic public goods are affected by the Mitsotakis Government. The Mitsotakis government's answer is police violence again. I heard that even in the course of ADED they threw a splash of light. Unfortunately these are the corresponding tactics with what Mr Chrysochoidis has done outside the Court of Appeal on that important day that the decision to classify the Golden Dawn was announced as a criminal organisation. But today's day is very important because the Council is also discussing the dangerous escalation - we hope it will be discussed - of the Turkish challenges against Greece, but the reality is that Orouk Reys once again sulats in Greek territorial waters, where we have sovereign rights and effectively challenges our country's right to extend maritime waters, as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Alexis Tsipras have proposed, but we have not yet heard from you. This development seems to us to find Europe reluctant to face up to the turbulence of the wider region. Perhaps the interests of the Member States and the Greek strategy also lead to such an answer. It is also the result of the government's obli­gence and political durability towards Mr Erdogan and Mr Mitsotakis. But the information tells us that today's summit will not decide on sanctions. Yesterday's information from the German Government said there was no demand for sanctions. We have publicly tabled the question as to whether the Greek Government finally submitted a request for sanctions, because there is a serious possibility that such a decision will not be taken today, only once again, and I would remind you that in June 2019 there was a decision on sanctions when Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras had participated in a summit when the Cypriot EEZ was violated. Our country pays for the lack of a strategy of the government and the tragic mistakes, such as Mr Varvitsiotis' statements in the Turcovinist that sanctions at that time were not a strategic option for the government, or Mr Voridis who I remember said that there had been no violation of sovereign rights, when for a month he smuggled Oruk Race under Kastelorizo, or yesterday's statement by Mr Petsa that the distance of NAVTEX from Kastelorizo and also the cradle of changing the diplomatic communication of Pombeo - Trees, Trees - Pompeo - was not historic. These are tragic foreign policy errors. We are talking today about a more specific issue of the Ministry of Environment and Energy with a minister who is clearly divorced from the truth. In a moment, Mr. Hatzidakis is capable of telling us that for bankruptcy it was SYRIZA's fault that SYRIZA put us in a memorandum and that the New Democracy got us out of the memorandum. Unfortunately, the government is consuming a very important reform, the one on unpurpose plastics, just to create a green smokescreen. To cover what? The fact that it has a strong anti-environmental agenda. The Green Prime Minister eventually becomes a bigger joke than the metro of Thessaloniki, which you also referred to the bells. Environmental policy, but also energy, unfortunately, dominates the phasing-out conditions in Greece. Each initiative of the Ministry is a degradation of environmental policy and legal certainty. Example: Forest maps have been abolished. The management bodies of protected areas have been repealed. Promote the incineration of all waste in the special waste design. They do not have a waste prevention plan, but the incineration has been carried out by the Ministerial Council, and they have a salt in the recycling that the ministers are fighting with. The ministers of the Ministry of the Environment themselves said so here in Parliament in parliamentary control. They have abolished the incentives for recycling and are delaying the specific environmental studies of the NATURA region launched by SYRIZA. They downgrade environmental licensing and the Special Spatial Planning for RES, while with photographic provisions they serve "ELLENIKIKI FRYS". In all this, they are arbitrary forests and from what we see with the latest documents circulating, they are relaunching the diversion of Acheloos. I would therefore say in the Minutes that Mr Karamanlis' answer confirms that this government is relaunching Acheloos' diversion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I wonder whether the works of the New Democracy, which Mr Hatzidakis said every day, are these works, the diversion of Acheloos and the service of the Hellenic FRYSOS, as are the legalisation of forests? Well done, Mr. Hatzidakis, and above. The real plan, however, is specific and we revealed it. It is the sale of public property, and even of fillets, without real investment, that is to say, of state-owned operators, as it does for the TEDO, which gives it stable performance, but also the works of cash to the potential person, while, on the other hand, there are blue children everywhere with great wages, and there are incentives not to healthy entrepreneurship, but loopholes for elites, such as degreasing are practically natural gas for individuals, while Europe is stopping financing for natural gas, we are committed to private people for thirty years at the expense of climate policy. Even in the bill on use of plastics that we are asked to vote on, because we did negotiate most of it in Europe, managed to re-private the DEDDIE that no longer exists, there is no Memorandum of Understanding, there is no debt, as happened in previous years, in the situation that they had brought Greece, because they brought us into a situation, we solved the problem, and we are accused of solving the problem that they created, and now they want to sell the DEDDIE, LARCO, DEPA, a private person having the whole gas network, and that has been passed here, dynamizing the debate on plastics. Mr Hatzidakis is mortgaged on the country's future on transition issues. Instead of a transition to climate neutrality, instead of a transition to the cyclical economy, instead of a transition to sustainable development and biodiversity protection, it creates a ‘fake’ transition. It serves practically the interests of a very small elite. It has been instructed to place it in the Ministry to sell public property to a very small elite, which is fine and state-owned, does not make real investments and at the same time undermine legal certainty for the rest of entrepreneurship and reduce the interests of society and public property. Despite the green fireworks of this government, everyone gets lost from the policy of Hatzidakis - Mitsotakis. Proof of the first: we were told that they saved PPC, carrying EUR 500 million cost to the citizens. And what did they do? All the business of the country, all the consumers in the country today pay a hat current on the wholesale price with an average of 170%. Do you understand that, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy? From the wholesale price PPC sells a six-month average - not one day -170% over and this is obviously won by competitors, a cartel with Leader of PPC is created and Mr Hatzidakis creates this, on his own personal responsibility. Some make super-profit, while the Greek industry, the Greek craft industry, tourism, focus, recreation and all households pay a four-fold electricity to the wholesale price in April. And while we were waiting to make some discounts from PPC, they made a picture. They paid more money to advertise the Golden Boys. Evidence second: What did all RES producers say to us with whom we are talking these days? That they live in the period 2012-2014. Mr. Hatzidakis went bankrupt with the special account of the RES. How is a government green when it bankrupt the account that supports renewable energy? With the alalum it created, with its inspiration to reduce EMCDDA, i.e. aid to the RES to hide the increases, the fraudulent growth plan, has finally been led today by an account that we found in deficit -800 million you have handed it over - we have made it surplus, and now it is a deficit again and renewable energy producers are concerned. Elements are falsified and can be cooked to the blue children appointed by Mr. Hatzidakis. What's his plan? Take money from the Recovery Fund that Greece wants to support the economy, give it to cover its own mistake and lie? The government finally hurts everyone. Not even entrepreneurship gets won. Everyone gets hurt, but the important thing is that the country is downgrading because Mr. Hatzidakis sells the ready and does not allow for real investment. Why is there going to be real investment without forest maps, without a register, without rules in the protected areas, without a specific spatial plan for the RES? And we are now coming here to a bill, which could be reform, which we matured, because we started intervention for the thin plastic bag, to see that this government was not just able to get a directive from Europe to make it a development tool for Greece, but it does not even have figures for where our own reform for the thin plastic bag is is, when it is legislated that there should be a report dated - if I am not wrong - end of May. So I am presenting here the 2017 FEI, Mr Hatzidakis, which you have not yet answered, if you have even a number. Can't even count numbers? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, because he is only interested in selling, he is also affected by the environment, because we will not be able to have a reform for disposable plastics for the Greek seas, for the Greek focus, for Greek recreation. The result will be to make only amendments to correct their own mistakes. And be careful, another great feature of Mr. Hatzidakis is that he doesn't know how to legislate properly, because he's going hand-in-hand with communication and tragic mistakes. For example, in the bill that we have today, they amend their own law on the sale of "Structures". Tragically and wrongly selling the "Supply Infrastructure", but you don't even have to legislate on the sale properly, Mr. Hatzidakis? Or they come to reconfigure their own location for the sale of "LARCO", probably because the interested ones want the exception from the Mining Code. And what is the exception for today's regulation? That there's going to be renting and mining. So what's there? No rent or mining? What's he hiding? Can you explain exactly who you serve? And he comes to blame us for Mr. Tsakalotou's letter saying that we will negotiate to see probably if there is a strategic investor, but he did not say anywhere that this will be without rent and no mining, which you are now doing, nor on the condition that if the process is not successful in a semester, Larko is bankrupt, because that is what you have legislated, not what SYRIZA said. Of course you want to hide your responsibility for the bankruptcy of 'LARCO' on the one hand, but on the other hand you come and sell the 'Networks' to a private person for the whole of Greece, to have the whole natural gas network? This will also stop energy transformation and create costs for everyone both in the economy and in the households, and at the same time you want to sell the DEDDIE, namely the distribution network, while there is no obligation and there is no profitable one, and while on the one hand you say you cannot buy pillars, at the same time you are preparing a EUR 850 million project for smart meters? So what are you guys up to? Another favour for the proposed buyer, Mr. Hatzidakis? And within a bill, in which you have been discussing for about a year now, you come and legislate today that by ministerial decision what disposable plastics are. You don't even know that yet. This is where Europe has come to an end. Because what you're doing is a communication show. Because Mr Hatzidakis, obviously himself, committed himself to stopping the use of plastics - all of which - in June 2020, he said so at the ECONOMIST conference, he said so, we have it all in detention. Why doesn't he say he was wrong? It comes today and creates alalum on the market, because the only thing we have to do is produce and BSE and the market, i.e. focus, recreation, tourism, consumption, there are no rules and all it creates is a confusion. So as a apprentice magician comes to create and confusing the market, not just cannot implement a directive, not just sell it, not just can they properly legislate and change their own bills, but create a - if you like - firework with the percentages that are not caught. We are told, for example, that 50% of the fishers started, 40% took it, 30% took it, because they simply don't even talk to the producers, they don't know if there is Greek production of fishing equipment. We know that they have now made contact with us because this industry is concerned with Greece. They come with provisions that will not be implemented to reach them in about a year, as it has done for the whole of the arrangements. There's no law of Mr. Hatzidakis that hasn't come back for a change. For example, electricity, this most dreadful invention, which was not his, in the SYRIZA national energy and climate plan, was, came and changed today, and indeed in an article that we denounced is a deficit. The circular economy is obviously not in your priorities, because we have not heard anything about reducing VAT on products from recycling. We have not heard that you have approved a waste prevention plan. You only approved this summer's burning. We did not hear you legislate about the separate collection of organics that were lawful since 2018 by SYRIZA and you took it for 2022, nor do you apply the provisions that have been legislated since 2017 for the ecodesign of products. Do you not want Greece's market and production to be more competitive in the ecological future? Not even ecodesign fits your vision? Apparently you've had enough disposable plastics consultation cycles. I don't underestimate it. Three cycles you did internally and your own, indeed, with a set of possible questionnaires the first. But why didn't you bring the House to discuss the national waste management plan? Why does it contain combustion and privatization even of recyclables? Because this is what national planning contains. So we know you're serving an absolute anachronism. Europe no longer finances natural gas. You go to the natural gas. It doesn't finance combustion. You go to the combustion. For what? Because, behind you, they are small elites of businessmen who give you orders and you legislate about the amendment of 'LARCO', the amendment of ICES and the amendment of ICES. All based on the interests that guide you and serve you. Unfortunately, there are serious problems. Not even things like measuring for disposable plastics and plastic bag do not exist. The WWF that is a member of the board of directors and a representative of the EAN states that the data are in the air, that Greece has no inventory of solid waste production and quality and that the study launched by the SYRIZA government has stopped it. So, without scientific knowledge, away from environmental organisations, without the economy, production and consumption with you, without society you are actually moving into regulations that are not in the interests of the country. You don't care about the environment. If you were interested, you wouldn't have made the cancellation of the forest maps. You have already made two or three amendments to the timetable and you have extended your own legislature. You would not leave the environmental inspectors to rest so that we today have to table an amendment to extend their position to environmental inspectors and environmental licensing. You would not secretly negotiate with the Hellenic FRYSOS by violating both the contract and the ruling of arbitration to the detriment of the public interest. You obviously don't care about the public interest. Because if you were interested, at least the Ministry of the Environment would be present in the legislature that concerns it. The Ministry of Tourism bill came a change in the forestry legislation and we stopped it. In a bill from the Ministry of Interior, you signed the transfer of the fee for the communities and the House stopped it. You, Mr. Hatzidakis, signed this in another bill from the Ministry of Interior. Another article that changes for the third time how the administrations of the EBRD are elected. The Ministry of the Environment is a political leadership of the environmental and energy transformation of our society and our country. This also poses serious problems in plastics. It leaves production and consumption in confusion, without financial instruments, because it invests only in propaganda and says it will bring financing. A year and a half ago he said he would ban plastics until June 2020. And finally, it even creates for a serious and ready reform a time bomb at the expense of the environment, the economy and the citizens. Finally, the only thing that Mr Hatzidakis manages and in this bill is to reveal that the environmental profile of the New Democracy is false, but that any legislation and political initiative of the New Democracy damages the entire society of the country, the entire economy of the country and the environment. That is why the policy that is deeply antisocial and anti-popular must be overturned very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u179	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Follow it from 24.9.20 a modification from 26.7.2018 a Donation Convention between the Greek State, the Joint Social Benefit Foundation called "Alexandro S.A." (ALEXANDER S. ONASSIS PUBLIC BENEFIT FOUNDATION), based in VADUZ of the LIECHTENSTEIN Foundation, and the Onassis Cardiff Centre (N.P.I.D.).), urgent arrangements to address the risk of the spread of COVID -19 and other provisions.’ Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin, ladies and gentlemen, from the main issue that concerns our country right now and which is Turkey's attitude. I have to start with this because after the information we had in the morning of all the parties' representatives from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we were surprised to hear from Mr. Gerapetti's Minister of State about a six-mile red line. You'd better keep quiet if you don't know. If he doesn't know, how does he talk about foreign policy? I think it was a repetition of what happened today. A manoeuvre. I'm not considering the substance of the position. I'm considering the speech at this level. I do not want to speak more strictly about what the Minister of New Democracy did, although I feel the need to speak more strictly. I would point out, however, that information in the morning to me, but to Mr Katrugalo and to representatives of the other parties, I imagine, was not that. Before I go to the main theme of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that on the matter of the Ministry, Mr Secretary, on a matter relating to Kefalonia and the aid to be given to it after the fire - you remember - in this area where the shame of Kefalonia is, some intervention is needed. But you didn't answer me. I will ask the question in time and you will come here to stand up to it. The written question was the nature of the contribution. But timeliness has controversy. I won't hesitate. I would also like to see a clarification being given to us. It's not the point of the draft law, but it's related. What about the report that recycling products at paper level want to have no markets to lose on the Chinese market that is the main one? I would expect this to be commented on today after all. The Minister did so on waste management issues. Finally, before I begin, I would like to say to Mr Famelo that the account and record I shall then make about how far behind we are from your needs includes your four years. Unfortunately, the balance sheet is comprehensive. It's about the Greek state. You're shareholders of good and bad because you've been government for four and a half years. But this will come in its turn. I would stress that Mr Arvanitis, our rapporteur, has overvented the positions of our party on the main theme of your current legislative initiative relating to the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. This is a directive that is incorporated. I will repeat Mr Arvanitides in three parts. Firstly, on the labelling he made in the eight proposals on the demolition of Greece that we have made as the Change Movement. He also recorded them in this Chamber one by one, George Mulkiotis with his speech. Secondly, it is our request that there should be specific provisions for those businesses that are in this plastic sector, extroverters and need help in adapting them. Thirdly, I would like to express my wish, like George Arvanitides, that we should finally make a start on the management of waste which is worthy of a country like Greece, a Eurozone country, a country that has tourism as a major factor in its Gross Domestic Product. Ladies and gentlemen, I have never handled issues from the Ministry of the Environment. I was responsible for this sector in the 2000s. I stood up to Mr. Suffly at the time. In my books, however, like "You want for New Greek Correction", in many of my interventions to the media and the House, I have described this topic as number one for the image of the country and number one for overcoming the recession and the economic crisis. It is a source of wealth, the management of waste, but we do not understand that in practice, as much words as false words, as much as eschatological arguments have been made in our Parliament. We, you, you, us, us, you, you, us! Air cut off. Why am I saying that? For we insist on the sanitary burial - 'healthy', sometimes, that God make it - 95% of the waste produced by the country. I agree with the person who has said that 'a country that cannot manage, solve the waste issue, cannot solve the substance and no other matter'. The numbers are fascinating. In 2000, in the first decade of the century: we have thirty, thirty-five waste burial sites, the XYTAs, to cover 63% of the country's population, mainly in the large urban centres. Nine, ten years later, the HYTAs become fifty. Tracking turtle, whoever ruled. We ruled with New Democracy. Finally, 2014, CYTAs are seventy-seven plus fifty-four waste transit stations. The landfills, our national shame, that is, the uncontrolled landfills are hundreds or thousands to serve 37%, that is, the rest of the population in the early 20s, 2000s and beyond. Four hundred such sites are recorded in 2009 and three hundred forty in 2014 plus two mechanical recycling factories that we had since then and seven, eight recyclable material sorting centres. What has been added since? It was not in the four years of SYRIZA, but it worked in the four years of SYRIZA and it is not in honor of all the previous, including. Other four plants of biological mechanical engineering. Aren't you telling me? Is that a situation? Why are we talking? Are we still talking about HYTATO? Are we even talking about burning today? Ladies and gentlemen, I have to point out that, as far as we are concerned, we are going to use a management method in practice so that our technology goes beyond us. We are the victims of a contradiction. But it's our fault. The bureaucracy, with the time required by the procedures, allows us to obtain a method or use a method, to apply a method when it has been multipled. What has happened in Parliament today? I don't want to be a shareholder of this debate when the opportunity is here, but we don't get it. Mr. Hatzidakis makes a lot of statements. I am watching and archiving all his statements on the subject. I repeat it is an image of the country, self-esteem at the end - and it is a source of wealth. Neither do we understand it, nor do we understand it. I do not agree with the criticism of the campaigns, but the campaign with a television signal does not count. The other guy's listening, he's getting out of there. It has happened to me many times since I am a politician, to talk to tourist regions, very friendly to me, who are the professionals of tourism, and to see together on the side of the street the old waste situation, but my other interlocutor and friend don't see it. He looks at her, but he doesn't see her, because it's not a matter of education - that's a big word - but information. A universal program did not dare any government to do, rather than to exchange arguments about us and others. 'Your advertising' and 'why you do it' and 'your party'. This is dismayed, ladies and gentlemen. They're down! I'll talk about one, two promises and close. Hatzidakis promise: Seventeen waste treatment plants will be auctioned in all six, now in place, at the end of 2020. Now are we in the beginning of 2020? Where are we? We're in mid-October. Which ones are ready? Are you going to postpone them, change dates? Your Secretary-General, in December 2019, told us "As of the end of 2021 there will be no dump". Luckily, there are few. Thank God. We are now listening to Mr Hatzidakis transfer by one year this ending by the end of 2022. You're not doing well. You're not doing well. The current Minister, when he took over, said that you cannot imagine what is happening in Greece, as if we do not know what is happening in Greece. We can, Mr Hatzidakis, imagine what is happening in Greece! But we can also see your work. You go like a crab. Ladies and gentlemen, a Member of Parliament who does not handle the Ministry and power, who has a few partners, can also make a mistake in the figures. Ministries like they can't make mistakes. It means it's predatory and unspeakable, like I said in the morning. Statement by the Minister at SKAI: "We have today twenty-eight uncontrolled landfills, and ten which do not work, but regions have not already been restored". When Mr Hatzidakis announced the five meters, the giga policy measures that will change our landscape in relation to waste, changed the numbers. The uncontrolled were eighteen, while the non-functional who have not been restored became twenty-three. It can't be done. It can't be done. Little difference you'll tell me. Okay, I agree. But I think, and as far as I know, the fines even if they are smaller because the uncontrolled dumps are less, they still fall. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask why we are already walking in 2020 to finish it, we are entering 2021, and there is one objective - I do not know if we will achieve it, but it does not seem - that by the end of this decade, that is, until we enter 2030, from the large proportion of the waste management carried out through landfill, we will go to 10%. I really don't see it because I don't see the pace of work growing. If you operate under the logic of "business as usual", if you operate on the logic that "all right, something will happen nowadays, "2" will do it "3", "good went to class, well it did, "12" got "9" in "20", if you go with that logic, okay. But the country does not need that logic. The country needs a government that will go to this area very quickly. Too fast! And here you have a way to go. Just one way. Anyone who governs, whoever is in this position, whatever government is in power, has a way of adapting bureaucracy and the forecasts of guarantees for a fair process, with the need to exploit technology in the management of waste in its last word. Because businessmen who are also committed to providing a management product, and we are doing, governments, seven years to obtain it and exploit it, insist that you do not change technology because its product must be sold, otherwise it is destroyed. Either you shorten the time to keep up with technology or you will look openly at the polytechnics what they produce as proposals, the international, European experience, those who are responsible for waste management, or we will be dead in this area. I hear the political controversy of government and major opposition today. It is the air that is unscrupulous, it is not a real political controversy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Members of Parliament from New Democracy, Mr. Silina Skondra, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy today introduces a bill to Parliament, whose core touches on a long-term political commitment from the New Democracy. Already from the pre-election period, as well as from the programme statements by Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, we had announced our intention of effectively armoring the country in the protection of the natural environment by works and not by words, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population. Propaganda is your gift. And while today's bill comes to implement a relevant European Union directive of 2019, we are targeting higher than those targets. We are one of the first pan-European countries to ratify this directive to effectively prevent further contamination of the environment by unpurpose plastics. And why are we doing this? Because very simply, ladies and gentlemen, Greece is culture, sun and sea, our homeland has the largest coastline of all European countries, it is the destination of tens of millions of people every year, coming from all over the planet to know our culture and history, but also to enjoy the blue coasts of the Aegean Sea and the Ionian Sea. So the more unacceptable it is for visitors in the middle of a tourist season to find a worldwide monument, such as the Acropolis, closed, because for example some employees strike, another so unacceptable is to see our beaches and shores filled with waste, thrown water bottles, plastic coffee glasses, straws, plastic bags and other similar ones. Disposable plastics account for about 80% of marine waste. Consider that it takes up to six hundred years to dissolve. But it is not just the shores and seas that are polluted by disposable plastics. It's both inland, rivers, lakes, parks and forests. If someone looks at Greece in 2020, they will unfortunately find garbage, plastics, illegal dumps full of waste bags left everywhere. This is certainly not an image that honors us. However, the problem with disposable plastics is not only limited to the issue of the image we show outwards, nor to the millions lost every year, even though these are calculated. It is that they pose a risk to public health, because when they are thrown out of control they end up in the food chain. They eat the animals and the fish and then they end up on our plate. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns our prevailing, unfortunately, mentality. His main aim is to improve the environmental consciousness of all of us. So by applying the European directive in one year, in July 2021, specific categories of disposable plastics, such as plastic stabbers and plates, straws, cork cups, will no longer exist. In the public sector, which has to set a good example, the ban will apply from the beginning of the new year. Since 2022, the plastic glasses are not reduced by 30% until 60% in 2026. Also, by 2024 the plastic bottle, which is not withdrawn from the market, should have a cap attached and made by 25% of recycled material. In the context of the circular economy, we set a mandatory objective for a separate collection of plastics with a special mechanism in national measures so that the objective of not leaving a blank letter. In addition to this directive, we are extending the scope of environmental protection and with national measures such as those which have already been analysed by our rapporteur. I will, however, stand under sanctions for those who do not respect the law. We don't have to hide behind our finger. We are well aware that in Greece we are not suffering from a lack of legislative framework. We are lagging behind in the application of the rules and laws. The other European countries do not treat this to such an extent because they know that if they do not do the legal sanctions, they will be heavy and they will be imposed. But the size of the fine is not the essence. We must finally get away from his morbid logic: “Come on, what happened? And how much will the fine be?’ Here we need to realise that replacement will make a significant contribution to the protection of the land and all its living inhabitants. A little or much we all know the adverse effects of plastic on the ecosystem and on health. We need to find ways of simple and useful to limit our report. Ladies and gentlemen, in my constituency of Carditsa a few days ago we experienced the anger of nature. Citizens have lost their lives, businesses have been destroyed, farm crops and livestock and, above all, our people have been lost. While the biblical catastrophe that occurred in Carditsa is not directly linked to this bill remains a fact that the burden on the environment, on the ecosystem and on climate change is a direct consequence of human intervention. It is reasonable, therefore, that more effective protection of the environment and our natural wealth will also benefit us in part, but especially in the future generations. This bill contributes substantially to the formation of an integrated and dynamic circular economy. At the same time we tell the Greeks, especially young people and young people that we must effectively protect the natural wealth of our country, our environment and our coasts, which mainly affect our health. We need to realize that the natural environment does not belong to us, we are inhabited in this as our parents have before us and our children. I conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that, as we vote on this bill, we will also be voting on the amendment on LARCO and the TEDDA in spite of the anti-population performances that he accuses us of selling us. That is to say, you who promised Greece for a century and its assets. But the reality here is that the procedures laid down in Law 4664/2020 for the realistic and unique solution of LARCO are being clarified and accelerated. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u183	Thank you. I would ask you, as far as possible, to keep the time as possible after it has been laid down by a plenary decision. Then Mr. Panos Skourletis will be given the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Konstantinos Maravegias from New Democracy. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, green policy is not a logo printed on a T-shirt that we wear on a case-by-case basis. It's got content. I heard a majority colleague complaining that we gave up the issues of ecology on the left. This period has passed. I don't think you have any idea what the message of the time is. You do not understand the message of the disciples of demonstrations that shocked all over Europe last year where their request was: 'Switch the system'. And they were referring to the productive system, the consumer standard and all that you, while showing up with an environmentally friendly wrapping, you just want to maintain. Why, how pro-environmental is it that a government stops forest maps? How environmentally friendly is it to dissolve environmental management bodies in protected areas? How ambitious is it when you come and say that decisions by the Council of State on a case-by-case basis do we adopt them? I am referring to a constant environmental problem, such as that of Halkidiki's gold. The Minister had been asked. There is a specific decision by the Council of State which is abrogating the "ELELENIKIKI FRYS" on the way in which the mines are exploited there. Why is he deaf? Why is he deaf? What are you going to do with it? You told us that you respected justice decisions. In any case, you are coming today and you are proposing the introduction of a directive, which is compulsory - and you are right to do - but it is accompanied by an unprecedented curiosity. Data are not available for our previous political trials, such as in the case of the plastic bag, and you are being indicted for this. You know, the issue of declining disposable plastics is just a part of a whole concept that should characterise a state as a waste management issue. And here on this major issue, what are you doing? You have opened the way for burning and with your policy you are donating PPP management through PPPs through contracts that provide that those individuals who exploit them must be paid on the basis of the volume of garbage. So, basically, what are you doing? You're coming and you're picking up the case of recycling at the source and the possibility of recovering products from this process, so it's also the cyclical economy. In all this, however, you have the case of the profit of individuals, the ones who will manage the waste. How ecological is that? That's not ecological. It's not green. It's blue! Because it prejudges the laws of the market and profit and the case of waste management. And good, you do this twenty years ago, I understand. It was more of a perception. Now, do you not see the issues of the climate crisis? You saw what happened the other day, what happened last month. There is no sign of Greece that is not confronted with such events of climate crisis. And you are still pretending and announcing the defoliation, completely waste, without content, just to open space to private investors in natural gas, ignoring an entire area you condemn to sudden death. So here you come, consistent with your blue neoliberal concept, with two amendments that concern your obsession with the issues of privatisation. You come here and you talk about the DED. It recommends that PPC be fully nurtured, this policy that you are going to do with TEDO. Because you're going to create another private monopoly. You know that the TEN, which concerns the low-voltage and medium-voltage networks, is paid on the basis of regulated charges and is always profitable. You know he has a very big investment in front of him, like that of smart cash. You are going to pay a premium - from what the publications say and have not been disproved - with 850 million of the proposed buyer from the European Recovery Fund. Why? To create another private monopoly. What does this have to do with the public interest? It is precisely that your perception of the public property, of the public interest, is reflected in the amendment on ‘LARCO’. As this case of "LARCO" condensates all the frustration, mismanagement and destruction of public money concerning the events of your own governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK over the past decades. You have left a very large, unique, sized European business to marvel. Wasn't your administrations that closed contracts for over ten years to sell at nickel prices when it was low and all the estimates were that he was going to go up? And they probably didn't do it with the unimportant. But be careful to see. You did other things. You applied memorials, cut wages to everyone, but because it was Mr. Stakoras from the region, it was excluded from the Memorandum Reductions of wages by employees to "LARCO", regardless of whether there was a business plan to make it sustainable. And now you're talking about privatization, with the privilege of not having the new investor, based on the mining code, to the State, not paying what they're responsible for. What's that? Isn't that a political scandal? Isn't that a neoliberal scandal? Is it not a policy that directly harms public property and the public interest? I think it is obvious that you are following Mr Hatzidakis in particular what he knows from the past. He is entitled to the title of the neoliberal "democrat". Except this policy, you know, gives rise to social conflicts. We saw today what happened out here in Parliament. It is a slippery path to tackling social protests and protests with more violence and repression. Today was the civil servants, the students. Last week again. This cannot go on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Mr. Maravegias Konstantinos from New Democracy has the floor and I will give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Hetas. Three or four Members will be present, as appropriate, and one parliamentary representative will then be present. There was an exception to Mr Famello and Mr Loverdos who spoke on a continuous basis, but at any rate, and the MPs have the right to speak. Come on, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. As the articles of the bill have been thoroughly analysed by the previous Members, you will allow me to confine myself to the amendment by the Ministry of the Environment, which contains provisions on renewable energy. These are issues of renewable energy parks, including photovoltaics and wind turbines. Especially in Magnesia, we recently had a vertical increase in investment interest in such facilities in agricultural and grassland areas. For example, only for agricultural land in Magnesia was submitted in September almost three hundred applications involving the installation of photovoltaics in areas of more than fourteen thousand hectares. In the same direction, it is very important that the ongoing investment of the local agricultural cooperative of EUR 30 million for photovoltaics in areas of Volos and King Ferrau, as well as the proposal of the Municipality of Volos itself to create a new photovoltaic park, costing EUR 25 million, with foreign funding. Huge untapped areas, both mainland and island Magnesia, can accommodate such infrastructure, always with respect to the natural environment and existing tourist development. I must say here that I do not understand the negative attitude of SYRIZA's colleagues in Magnesia, especially in any wind turbines plant. Didn't there become a host of such permits on SYRIZA? Regardless of whether investors did not build their respective RES stations, we have helped to license whole wind parks and not just. Minister, it is very important to bear in mind that this development must be in line with every country and its people. That is why we recently had a public debate in southern Pelion on how TTAs should be involved in the EIA decision-making process. In particular, on the issue of the participation of local communities in the licensing of wind parks, the Minister responsible, Mr Hatzidakis, took a clear position. It specified that the institutional framework would be strengthened, so that municipalities would be better able to table proposals on the development of renewable energy sources in their areas of competence. There is no doubt that such projects can create new economic prospects throughout the Magnesia region. At the same time, new infrastructure can guarantee energy autonomy in areas that are currently experiencing problems of electricity stability. In any case, however, the creation of growth opportunities for the local economy cannot be related to the protection of the natural environment and to existing tourist development. We have in our area areas of special natural beauty, which have already been developed in another direction. It is therefore necessary to see where the own resources can be over-used. And if such a possibility arises, we should discuss with the local communities in good time all possible ways before any new facility. The reason is double. First of all, full information for the citizens is the best way to entertain concerns, but also to disprove the deliberate misinformation that often occurs in such cases. A characteristic example is the graphical view of some economists, but which is allegedly an environmental problem, that wind generators are also hitting migratory birds. Such objections have no place in a serious public debate. In this respect, it is good that municipalities can submit their views both before the approval of new projects and after the authorisation of production by the Energy Regulatory Authority, i.e. at the environmental licensing stage of the project. Therefore, there is a possibility for consultation before a final authorisation is granted for any power-generating facility and renewable energy sources. In addition to this, the relevant Ministry has recently clarified that it is expected to adopt the new producer attestation regulation, in accordance with Article 18 of Law No.46852020, which is expected to strengthen the capacity of the LAG to co-ordinate the operating conditions of their renewable energy projects, including wind turbines and photovoltaics. Specifically for photovoltaic parks was extremely positive, the extended possibility that we have recently given this House here in the motion for a provision on their establishment in high productivity rural land. It was a necessary measure to improve an unpleasant, confessed reality, as for years in Thessaly Campos there have been areas which, for objective reasons, remain unexploited. So - and rightly - the Government of New Democracy has been given the opportunity to bring Magnesia into the new operating cycle, which is also financed by development law. Investment projects for the production of energy from renewable sources to meet the needs of agricultural holdings may be subsidised by the Ministry of Development for the current cycle of proposals by 30 October. These state aid to companies in the primary sector is essentially a form of non-refundable advance that SYRIZA so suddenly loved. It's another case that the SYRIZA government was supposed to take, but it didn't have time. That is why, obviously, the Greek people have welcomed you with the Mitsotakis Government, in order for the New Democracy to do all that you have not prevented and in the area of the development of renewable energy sources, as well as so many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor. Mr Filipos Loading, Member of the New Democracy, will then be given the floor. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, thank you very much. I shall be brief, because I understand the suffering of colleagues. But you should know that the Parliamentary Representatives have been here since the morning and we will be leaving at night - we are not going - so we should at some point also talk. Minister, may I congratulate you on your new duties. A lot has been said about the bill. I think that both our rapporteur and the President dismantled them this morning. No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that concerns most Greeks right now and everyone's minds - Kyriakos Velopoulos gave the signal earlier - is at the summit. Because in addition to the criticism we can make - and we exercise and we will also exercise now - the result when you draw a line is one. And we say that we must - and I hope the Prime Minister will return with good news from the summit. That's what logic says, that's what the national interest says. Anything else heard in here is at least paranoid. We have some samples. It says, for example, a little while ago, they officially informed us that the teeth are being shuddered by France and Germany in Turkey, by Erdogan, and that they are being given one week, otherwise sanctions. I guess so. They've been given a week. See the translation now of the news. It is just as much to end Turkey's NAVTEX. One week is still the rest of NAVTEX. Turkey is not renewing it. So, her piece has made her cheek, her slut, to say a Turkish word. And what's next? Therefore, it was given as much time as it takes to get away with it once again. The German Foreign Minister said so. We will wait a week for the European Union to decide how to react - so that is where the secret is - and whether it will react and how it will react. So it will be over this week, and the illegal NAVTEX in Turkey will again gather Erdogan and then it will all be honey - milk, 'Come to talk again'. So, we're out again, lost communications. Turkey has ensured, if not support - not to say this - that it is extreme - but certainly the tolerance of Europeans for what it does in the Aegean, for what it does in the Mediterranean, and it sees that Greece, unfortunately, is related to this European line. Because we said that everyone's wish is to be the result positive, but on the other hand we have to say that we make mistakes, we make tragic mistakes. And it is wrong for Greece to downgrade the aggression of the Turks, it is wrong to hear statements of unacceptable lionism on the one hand, but on the other hand to extend to six nautical miles, not twelve, as they were placed yesterday, that our red lines are there. You know, this is the butter on the Turkish bread and we have to react. At first, we reacted modestly, then less. Then we didn't react at all. Now they've come to our door in front of the drills. These are, unfortunately, the results of our policy. And the mistakes must be said to us and to us. And we must finally give an answer as a country. What, war? No, one answer. Let's say, twelve nautical miles now, we have an EOZ with Cyprus now. Yesterday, not now. Now say - now to make it clear - that he dares to lower his drill, the cannon, the ship that has come out, will sink. This must be said to know what our dispositions are. And now put an end to the Turkish invasion of the Aegean. And on the other hand, look at it and a little communal. It is not possible at the time of the top of the negotiations, the peaking of the Turkish challenges and claims and tsamboukas, Greece, this government which handles this very serious issue, and the promotion of a substitute to make Doko an official national security counselor. Who? Doko. I don't know him. Could be a perfect man. It's not about this job. Just folklore. He can't do for this job a genuine ELMEP child. It cannot do this - the Prime Minister's security adviser - at a time of crisis with the Turks - we are in red - the man who, in his interview, will submit everything in the Minutes, to inform Members, too - has said that if Greece decides that it is in the interest of this, then it could negotiate a collapsing agreement with percentages to be determined according to the agreed maritime borders. Unbelievable! Unbelievable! Then he said, of course, that he expresses personal views. But now, Mr. Doko, these reflect your official position as Prime Minister's security counselor. You're not just a civilian to express personal opinions. Also, on 26-11-2019, some time ago, he said: "Even the ideas of collective bargaining can be discussed." And he made a third statement on a question that he was asked as to whether he was concerned about the possibility of a hot event. The question was this: 'You are concerned, Mr Doko, about an institutional incident?' The answer he gave was: "The large number of daily incidents in the air and sea, the result of illegal Turkish movements... according to the Greek perception, are the same." What does the poet mean here? Isn't our FIR being violated every day? Don't we have any challenges every day? Are these challenges in line with the Greek perception? When I finish my speech, I will formally state in the Minutes and in the minutes, because at some point this story will have to end. Yeah, homogeny, yeah, everybody together, but some things make an eye. We can't keep Doko guarding the sheep! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I cannot make another comment, Mr President, for only two minutes. We see every day that there is no compliance with society, because people are being provoked every day. That's why they're outraged and crazy. They can't equilibrium, they can't be unfair. There is no compliance with the rules, Minister, without terrorism. There's terrorism in everything! In Passover you closed the churches, you demonized the Divine Society and the congregation of images. You have created a climate of terror for the 15th century, you have banned parades, and now they are on Christmas. Mrs Pángalos, our national day-to-day 'terrorist' - in quotes, so as not to misunderstand, I mean the information - came out yesterday to announce it to us. He's out to tell us to forget Christmas. The other day, of course, he had the nerve to talk about distances outside the courtroom. He was begging those who gathered at the court of appeal, thirty thousand people, to have distances. These are the "Halima's fairy tales" that people are trying to swallow and they can't go crazy. We have intimidation of viewers every day. You're raping the Greeks' logic. I had to say some interesting things about the OECD, but I can't make it because I have to go. But, Mr President, precisely because I think that you too have the same sensitivities, as all people must have, let me say that, on the occasion of a speech here the other day, on behalf of some cannibals who kill and abuse animals, we have proposed to Mr Theodorikos and Mr Livanio the stricterisation of penalties. We have therefore made a commitment that they will soon bear the stricter penalties for these animals, for these cannibals, so that they do not have a suspensory character and actually pay for what they do. It's not like the abuse cases have increased over the last few days, Mr. President. Just on the occasion of that dog - now we had a second and a third - the media show more interest and make the surface of such issues. Unfortunately, however, we have many such incidents every day. In fact, we had a new abuse incident in Nice. He was thrown out of the courts today of this beast. We have therefore called for a tightening of the law and we are waiting for specific commitments. In addressing the world now, I would like to ask that the photos of the perpetrators be made public, so that none of them remain in obscurity and learn all about them, because whoever has such instincts against living souls is very likely to make them against people as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Then there will be three Members speaking, Mr. Philip Loading, Mr. George Stylos and Mrs. Brysidou Friday. After that, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Nikos Tagaras, will take the floor. Many Members are asking which parliamentary amendments will be accepted in order to be able to take their place. If you can then, Mr Tagaras, inform the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, so that he can at some point inform the House of the amendments he will make.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u190	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u191	Here, Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of Directive 2019/904 in national legislation limiting the impact of certain plastics on the environment is part of the country's environmental legislation and it is our duty to vote in favour of this draft law. The bill does not come to change habits and generally our attitude to the environment. The current government aims to make a significant investment in sustainable development by turning the page into a definitive and of course aiming at a more qualitative future, as well as of course greener. Citizens, as well as businesses, are invited to take out unpurpose plastics, harmful to the environment, such as plastic products which cannot be reused or recycled and which are responsible for the pollution of our seas and of our coasts. Beyond the health and also the economic crisis which we are facing, this ecological crisis is becoming increasingly important. Waste affects marine and coastal ecosystems and is an important concern for all of us. Approximately 80% -85% of the waste at sea, which is counted on the beaches, is plastic, while the one-use plastics account for about 50% of the total and the fisheries are 27% of the total. Disposable plastic products include a wide range of common fast-consumption consumer products which are discarded, since they have mainly been used once, in accordance with their own destination. They are rarely recycled and often end up in garbage. Appropriate waste management remains crucial for the prevention of all waste, including seawater. Especially in Greece, a country that is famous for the sea and its coastline and which are the number one of our national products must in every way preserve them and maintain them clearly. Two years ago, with Sikino starting, a program began trying to replace disposable plastics, beginning with the plastic straw. And then, this already successful project organized a multi-level intervention in Donusa, inviting professionals and the inhabitants of the island to commit themselves to the systematic reduction, but also to the gradual abolition of disposable plastics from the island, giving a strong message to the global community as well. And all this before this European Union directive is specialised. Unfortunately, however, to date, production systems, but also consumption systems, do not offer much incentive to avoid, but also to reduce it. That is why this legislative initiative by the Government redesigns the production chain, but also consumption. At the same time, national measures to reduce marine pollution and to provide incentives for this bill provide for counter-incentives in the form of sanctions. In particular, the polluter pays principle establishes systems of extended producer responsibility, but also the operator to cover waste costs, as well as the collection of waste. It is clear that our government has a single objective, a real green policy that will have as its ultimate objective and aim sustainable development, but also the protection of the environment and health. We attach importance to resolving key issues, showing confidence to both citizens and entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, disposable plastics are mainly used for a few minutes, but their overall impact on the environment also lasts mainly for many decades. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. The solution lies in our hands, in the hands of all of us, in our choices, but also in our daily habits. We can all be the change that we want to see in our world. Today we are going our own joint effort one step further. The conditions have matured for more effective policies and environmental issues. The Government of the New Republic keeps its promises to strengthen both the sustainable and the sustainable economy and this draft law is moving in this direction. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u193	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr George Stylos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a topical and urgent debate on many important issues and issues. I shall refer not to these issues but to the contents of the bill that we are discussing. We are therefore discussing a European directive, a draft law which legislates to reduce the impact of plastic products on the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union 80% to 85% of all marine waste on beaches is plastic. They are only disposable plastic products corresponding to 50% of these marine wastes. In Greece we consume one million plastic cups of coffee daily or three hundred million plastic glasses a year, while two billion plastic bottles of soft drinks and water are available every year. Disposable plastic products either discard them uncontrollably into the environment or in containers for collection and further management and landfilling. These products tend to accumulate in large quantities on the shores, on river, lakes and on the aquatic environment in the sea or on the seabed and are divided over decades into small plastics that pollute the environment and eventually penetrate into the food chain. When we consider that 50% of waste at sea is disposable plastics and that our country is famous for its environment and its clean seas and shores, we understand the importance of today's draft law, where the government proceeds to an integrated intervention to ban disposable plastics by making use of and incorporating a European directive into Greek legislation, but also introduces national measures to reuse our daily products and recycle them. So we have an intervention with the directive and an intervention with the measures at national level contained in this draft law. It is worth noting that this bill provides that the withdrawal of disposable plastics will take place six months earlier, since July 2021 - as provided for by the relevant legislation - which is our global objective. The main objectives of the Directive are to prevent and reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment, in particular on the aquatic environment and on human health, and to promote the transition to a cyclical economy with innovative and sustainable business models, products and materials, thereby contributing to the efficient functioning of the internal market. With the adoption in our national legislation of European Directive 904/2019, the placing on the market of ten disposable plastic products, which have been presented by the relevant ministers and our rapporteur in very detail since July 2021 and I will not mention them. The aim of the ban on these plastic products is to reduce consumption in plastic glasses and plastic food containers by 30% from the current data up to 2024 and by 60% by 2026. In order to achieve this objective, inter alia, it is envisaged to redesign the products with an ecological mark. In particular, there is a mandatory objective of separate collection of plastic bottles by 77% up to 2025 and by 90% up to 2029. Let me note that all caps should be fitted to bottles by 2024, while plastic bottles should be made from 25% recyclable content by 2025 and 35% respectively in 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, now in relation to the national measures we are legislating, we are motivating to strengthen prevention - reuse - to create plastic waste. Environmental contribution for plastic glasses and food containers is established from 1-1-2022. The money collected from this contribution will go to the Green Fund and return back to the municipalities and regions of the country for actions to combat environmental pollution. In addition, a universal system of return - guaranteeing the citizen, that is, the citizen will get money from the plastics that he will recycle. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not a partisan. The bill is the only color the green has. It is a bill following the environmental policy of the Government of New Democracy. A policy expressed in the large degrease plan, with the new draft law passed by Parliament recently for the NATURA regions, by simplifying for the enhancement of RES, with the new 10-year national waste management plan, with the new national strategy on electricity mobility. The government is progressing decisively, quickly in order to protect the country's natural wealth, which is the great heritage for the next generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Style. Mrs Brysidou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the environment and the care for climate change is to a large extent, and the responsibility and weight of the legislation of the European Parliaments and, by extension, our country. The rise in temperature does not only create malfunctions in the daily lives of citizens, but, along with extreme weather events, can lead to tragic developments that block the development of a place create negative events that may affect property, people's health, and even human lives. The protection of the environment is a duty and responsibility for all of us and a great deal of weight falls on the respective government. Plastics are undoubtedly an object which is particularly burdened by the environment and indeed the water potential in which our country has a large proportion. Our seas, our beaches are our beauty, they are a source of life, they are the object of tourism, we have many benefits. But 80% with 85% of the pollutants in the seas are plastic and 50% of them are daily, single use plastics. We therefore need to take care to limit this figure to such a degree that it does not pollute the environment. Our country is moving sooner than other countries. In addition to the fact that there will be an honor for those who consume plastics, there will also be opportunities for incentives and for citizens to want to move forward in the next step. It is important that a million plastic glasses daily are consumed and a billion plastic bottles in soft drinks and water. We therefore need to take care, and the directive that has already been adopted, is to do with the following: all these small things which are, however, on a daily basis and which have a great deal and a great deal of burden. In addition, care is taken for entrepreneurs who have to turn to other forms of product production and are affected by this directive with subsidies through the NRP, so that they can move on to these changes. It is also foreseen in 2022 that there should be a gradual development, that there should be a 0.4 minutes plus VAT, with a view to reducing the production of plastics by 30% by 2024 and reaching 60% by 2026. All this care is a big chapter, which concerns the environment. The environment needs measures, it needs a strategy, it needs a programme, it needs immediate decisions, because otherwise they are words and they do not work. Apart from this very important regulation, I would like to refer to both amendments, and I would like to say that there is no Greek citizen who does not want to take advantage of the minerals and wealth of each region. And I am referring to these, because the section "LARCO" exists in my area, in the Municipality of Serbs in the Prefecture of Kozani. However, he who cares about the products and wealth of our country, such as the Civic Anti-Civilization he has made extensive reference today, cares for the last five years before us who has managed to exalt the landscape, support and not reach this level in all directions, in the public sector, in PPC, in contractors, everywhere, so that it is a matter of time to close definitively. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Ministry are developing an initiative so that it can be rescued. It regulates so that it can enter a strategic private investment, which will be able to keep this piece in such a way that workers can stay and the region's wealth can continue. Finally, as far as PPC is concerned, when IPTO has been privatised at such a rate, the Civic Anti-Civilisation cannot now speak about the planning of the government. And a government that preceded and led to so many debts of PPC does not really have room to talk about the public interest of PPC, the public interest and general interest of the citizens and the interests of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mrs Brezidou, and respect for the time. The Deputy Minister, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, is now being asked to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully since the beginning of the sitting to all Members' views. I heard creative suggestions. But I heard extreme things too. Firstly, two words on national issues, because previous interlocutors have been mentioned. Especially in times of crisis and tension, our statements must be few and careful. Above all, however, we need a uniform national front, and let us keep it within the House sitting today. As far as the amendments are concerned, the Minister referred in detail and in detail. I would first of all refer to the bill - in addition to what has already been discussed - but also to other issues outside the draft law which have been raised by colleagues. The government's move to bring a directive into line with Directive 2019/904, is also a symbolic one. It is not that we will resolve the problem of environmental pollution from plastics by abolishing ten disposable plastic products in July of next year and starting to put down cuts in order to develop this ban on other plastic products. It is because we want to give the message as a society and to change the production process, but also to change habits, which surely and provenly afflict the environment. They were said before by the rapporteur and by other colleagues of all the wings. The general acceptance of this is positive, I would say from all sides of Parliament, against this move. The fact that we come here very quickly to legislate, but at the same time also to prepare especially the productive plastic agencies, which will be affected, needs attention to the transition from the old times to the new that we want to shape. And indeed, we need support through programmes from the Community Support Framework that is before us. I would like to say that such discussions have taken place a great deal and proposals have been made by the production agencies themselves dealing with issues relating to plastic products. I would also like to say, as far as the habits we need to change and the objective that we need to serve, and as far as waste is concerned, that the aim is to reduce waste. Immediately after we recycle what is recycled, reuse all the materials we can and as a last resort the residues - and not waste - go and use them energy. Because I have heard about the information and the comments on the plastic producers if they are informed. I said that before what we will do to help them in this transition. It was also mentioned by the Minister, but also by other speakers, that there were meetings and exchanges of proposals. It remains the crucial objective of support, in particular through the programmes mentioned above. Since next July, we have been banning disposable plastics, but in public services, the ban will apply from next year. We are waiting next month for the technical directives from the European Commission and then in January we will have the joint ministerial decisions for more detailed information from producers of plastic products and citizens. There are incentives for the citizen - consumer - because it will benefit when it has reused utensils when it goes to buy something. At the same time, the company will also have no obligation to have reusable utensils. As regards what I have heard, the directive came out because China does not accept plastics, indeed, that is what is happening. There are recent changes in the disposal of plastic products. I would like to tell you, however, that a study already carried out by the European Union has highlighted the problem of plastic influence and environmental footprint. This shows that 50% of the negative environmental footprint is from the plastics. As a result of this measure, the directive, which we not only have to accept, came to Greece, but also, if it was not there, we had to shape it on our own, since the negative print we know, we see it on our coastlines, unfortunately not as a pleasant picture. As far as the question of whether there is an implementation plan, at the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade, I was bound and sent to the e-mails of all the members of the committee a specific action plan - it is the first version - at the level of application of all this evolution, a text of seventy-five pages which I have given you. It is this text - I also told you by the committee - which details how they will evolve to serve the objective we have committed ourselves to. There is therefore, at the same time, a specific action plan that is enriched and updated. There will certainly be issues in the process, but we are here to adapt what is needed to a change of attitude that is more critical than the change of production process itself. This is not only about plastics, but also about other things. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been heard how it will be checked whether all we legislate and whether the EEW alone can meet this need for control. I mean, EOAN's not alone. If he so requests, he shall be assisted by the auditors of the services of the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection of the Ministry of Development and Investment and by the Independent Authority of Public Revenue and by the Interservice Market Control Unit and by the Single Food Control Body. I'm going to get some of the plastics because there's been an extensive report. I hear as far as the waste is concerned, we're on fire. I have heard that there is a zero residue so that we do not have to proceed to the landfill of waste, because we have escaped the landfill of waste. However, there is only a zero residue for landfill if energy use of the residue has been preceded. Let us be honest and clear so that we can be true to society. Because I have also received some reports on waste, I would like to say to you - because I am an old self-government and I have passed from all levels of self-government - that if we have delayed the management of the solution to the waste problem it is not the process that should be followed, if it is aerobic, if it is anaerobic, if it is waste. It was one thing because we always stuck there: the placement. Until then, we all agreed on everything, and when we went to space the revolutions began, because there was unfortunately intense populism, a lack of responsibility and proper and comprehensive information for the public. That's the whole truth. That is, in my humble assessment, the most important reason why we have delayed the problem of waste management. It has been a long time, the cost is high and I do not think we are allowed to delay any more. Solutions, decisions and projects are needed because it is not possible to tolerate and accept all the garbage in bulk, uncontrollable and when we go to a place controlled and kept with all the specifications, revolutions and reactions begin. I think that's not an honor to any of us. I also heard about the abolition of forest maps, the abolition of protected areas and management bodies. As far as forest maps are concerned, what forced us first of all - because others were added - to reform and reassign forest maps, as you all know, was that the law of the suspension of forest maps was considered unconstitutional because it did not contain the settlements, i.e. the viral contours of the arbitrary settlements. So it was our obligation to reform the maps. The main reason was that. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President. In addition, Law 4685 added the right to apply by means of acts of the concession administration, so as not to do so retrospectively with the objections. I would like to say that in the figure already posted and mentioned 45%, we already had a hundred seventy thousand objections and objections. One of the reasons was that they were not able to submit acts of the administration proving the property status of the land. With the committees we had, we would be late for 15 and twenty years to study them and decide. Imagine what would happen in the suspension of the remnant of the forest maps. So these were the two main reasons. The reform ends next month and until February our goal is to achieve it, and I believe that we will achieve it and bring it to 100% of all forest maps and then at least 90% of the sanctions next year. It will be left with regard to objections and objections. I mention this because you know that forest maps are a prerequisite for the completion of the register. It is true that we have been delayed as a whole to safely capture the space and to record all the geographical data in a database. It is also true that all of this is evolving at the same time and has difficulties marrying a common and secure background to all this information. There are peculiarities and problems, but we are here every day to intervene in order to secure what will come to an end. As far as environmentally protected areas are concerned, you know that for all those that existed in a fragmented area, individually in each protected area, a coordinated central organisation is set up with Law 4685, OFEKA is not to prosecute those who need to exist in each protected area, but to acquire an organisational structure that coordinates, which will have principles and rules and, of course, on local committees involving institutions and bodies in the region, so that we can make more efficient use of resources, but also have a single strategic reference plan. With regard to the specific environmental studies that have been launched by SYRIZA and I am monitoring them and are in progress, the aim is to complete them quickly and immediately for each region, in accordance with the four categories which are laid down in each category, specific uses and finally to know, without further intervention and approval, what is allowed and what is prohibited in the protected areas. In conclusion, I would like to thank all my colleagues, whom I listened carefully. I am glad that at least in the basic bill we are together on a subject that is a common goal for all of us and which has started and has work to develop. I want us to be company by the end, not only in the Chamber, but in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u200	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today undoubtedly represents an important step towards protecting the natural environment by incorporating the directive on the reduction of the impact of plastics. Of course, while we legislate here within the National Representation, our thoughts are outside the Chamber at the southeastern end of our country, to our locust compatriots, as well as to the members of the Armed Forces who defend our national security. As far as the draft law is concerned, we should start from the special action plan of the Ministry of the Environment in relation to the implementation of the directive, which states that 80% to 85% of the marine waste we see on the beaches is plastic, 50% of which corresponds to a single-use plastic object. In other words, we realise that these plastics pose a major risk to marine ecosystems and human health, since they pass through the food chain and are divided after many decades. Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the politician who has been from the beginning of his parliamentary process before all of us in parliamentary matters. Following the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 and the transition to electromobilisation, we are currently going on to combat plastic pollution and reduce disposable plastics. Although the deadline for implementing the directive is 21 July 2021, we are going to adapt it to national law earlier, so that we do not surprise the market and give businesses valuable time to adapt. With effect from 3 July 2021 ten categories of single-use plastic products shall be definitively withdrawn from trade, such as straws, disposable plastic plates, batteries, cutlery, food sticks, plastic balloon supports, etc. But this measure will be implemented for the public sector six months earlier. For plastic cups and food containers, the target is to reduce them by 60% by 2026. In particular, a four-minute contribution per piece plus VAT to be collected from the ADI shall be introduced and assigned to the Green Fund, which shall channel them to the ATOs for the development of environmental actions. In addition, the bill introduces the possibility of returning plastic bottles from the point of purchase by returning a guarantee, while at the same time providing for the construction of bottles of recycled raw material to 35% by 2030. In relation to the undertakings which are intended to produce plastic products, the NRV will support their production development and reduce the contribution of extended liability according to the recycled material used in the production. As a whole, the provisions of the bill make up a framework for reducing the impact of plastic products on our natural wealth and constitute an investment in the future. I would like to say a few words about the amendment that I tabled - and I hope the Minister will accept it, they have not yet answered - by a general number of 516 and a specialist 41. As regards the extension of the deadline for the approval of ski facilities, transitional arrangements under L.4280/2014. This is an amendment to harmonise the forestry legislation which allows for the repair and reopening of old lifts with ski ropes and in this case Kisavu. The property shelter for the Larisa Mountain Association in Kissavo dates back to 1970 and was the center of winter sports for the Larissans and not only. Of course, the older ones of the Larisa Mountain Society, the late President Achilles Papahatzis, Christos Karabouzis, Panagiotis Exarchopoulos, Christos Giotas, Anthis Zariba, Nikos Christodoulopoulos, Gregory Karayannis and many others do well to remember. It is Larissa's request, Minister, to reopen the "lift" which will make a decisive contribution to the promotion and development of this beautiful and green mountain called Kissavos with the valley of the Tempus and the picturesque vineyards on the one hand, Syros and the cave on the other side and the coasts of Stomios Karitsas and Agiokampos on the other side. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an important subset of European and national environmental policy that the Mitsotakis Government has formulated and developed, by legislating and implementing its commitments at a unique speed. We support and vote in favour of the bill with a view to improving our country's environmental legislation and above all to the future of our children to whom we have to leave a cleaner natural environment as a reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr Kelles, for keeping time. Mr. Kavadas Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are about to vote on today has a strong environmental sign. Incorporating European Directive 904/2019, provisions are laid down to ban the disposal of disposable plastics from July 2021, but also substantial measures and incentives to change our daily habits to be disconnected from the use of plastics. It is only enough to think that 95% of the garbage that pollutes the marine environment in the Mediterranean has plastic as the raw material, causing irreparable damage to the ecosystem and marine organisms. In fact, when this pollution passes into the food chain, the negative effects reach human health. For Greece, a country with a huge coastline of sixteen thousand kilometres, this bill is crucial, as it extends a shield of protection to one of the largest comparative advantages we have as a country, the unique natural and marine environment. Disposable plastics must be a past. According to Greenpeace figures every day in Greece, only 1 million plastic glasses are used for coffee, while every year two billion plastic bottles are used for water and refreshments. It is a sadly negative performance that we must change, changing the habits of our daily life. The abolition of disposable plastics will apply to our country for the public since January 2021 and to the wider market since July 2021. Greece is one of the first countries of the European Union to harmonise its legislation with this European directive. Article 4 of the draft law sets out precisely the use of plastics which, as from 3 July 2021, will be prohibited from being placed on the market. These are plastic plates and plates, straws, containers and cups of cork, food containers of cork, drink stirrings, batteries, balloon supports and any kind of products dispersed in microplates. Six months earlier, i.e. since 15 January, the general government and the wider public sector have been prohibited from supplying disposable plastic products. This effort is also linked to measurable objectives. 2024 is intended to reduce the consumption of plastic drinks and food containers by 30%, while in 2026 the target is 60%. With regard to plastic bottles they should be supported in ecodesign and should be made from 25% recycled content in 2025 at 35% in 2030. In fact, in order to limit the use of plastic bottles, municipalities will create infrastructures free of charge for drinking water in sports and public spaces and also children's joys. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill also contains incentives for the reuse and recycling of plastics. In particular, an environmental contribution for plastic glasses and food containers shall be introduced from 1 January 2022. This money will go to the green fund and will be channelled to municipalities and regions to use environmental awareness projects and actions. There is also provision for the supply by undertakings of a mass focus of products which can be reused. Incentives are being created for citizens. Since January 2023 the citizens who will return to the sales points the plastic bottles will receive back money. Environmental labelling is extended to all disposable plastics referred to in the Directive as from January 2023. Thus, citizens will know which products are intended for reuse, which for recycling and what for composting. Finally, the new institutional framework also provides for sanctions, such as a strict fine equal to 1% of the total turnover of last year for those who sell banned products. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, in addition to the strong environmental footprint, creates a new standard of responsible social behaviour for Greek citizens. It strengthens the brand of Greece and its image as a tourist destination, the image of a country that has a unique natural and marine environment and fully respects it. I believe, Minister, that the government should proceed immediately and to another institutional intervention on the issue of solid waste. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'd like a minute, Mr. President. To give more and above all tangible incentives to the citizens for recycling something I know, Minister, that they are already being examined at your Ministry. The financial burden on cleaning charges to be linked to the recycling of waste by any citizen or householder. These institutional interventions are a common place where broad consensus can be reached, a consensus that I hope will also be recorded in the vote on the draft law on the restriction of disposable plastics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Ms Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA and Mr Boutsikakis from New Democracy prepares. Mrs Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are in plenary session to discuss and vote on a bill in which the government incorporates, without debate in committees, very serious amendments that are irrelevant to disposable plastics. These are amendments relating to the sale of LARCO, the 'infrastructure' and the TEDO. In your permanent tactics you seek, without any social consultation, to divest public property to the benefit of certain economic interests with fast track procedures so that few people can see your new neoliberal attack. This time you legislated on the assignment of "LARCO" in a way that allows the closure of the mines of the company to be left open with everything that that naturally implies to its employees. This is a clear legislature at the expense of the public interest. As far as the TENs are concerned, we have basically started to privatise it and even with additional performance assurance for the buyer concerned. PPC is deprived of this sale definitely profits that result in private pockets with what this entails for the consumer's costs. In other words, these are very important issues discussed in this House in summary procedures. In fact, in the morning, we heard the honourable Minister calling the protests of the anti-politics to be fun and surreal. It is clear, therefore, that we obviously have a completely different sense of humor with the government at least as far as public property is concerned. As far as the main object of the bill is concerned, we have heard the Members of the House from this morning applauding the bill by describing it as extremely environmentally friendly. After abolishing the NATURA 2000 institutions, after canceling the forest maps in August, the Government of New Democrat Republic approved the incineration of waste even of recyclables, it is now coming to show another person or rather a representative. What's that? The so-called environmentally-friendly draft law, which is confusing because it is unprocessed and refers to all serious arrangements in subsequent ministerial decisions, as it usually does, without a specific timetable. For example, the exact definition of disposable plastics falling within the consumption reduction targets set out in Article 4 and the definition of the alternative product is absent and referred to future joint ministerial decisions, thus extending the question of the plastic industry as to what is considered recyclable and what is not. Similarly, market operators using plastics, such as catering, recreation, tourism, are also confused, because the Government warns them that they must be adapted, but that they must not be given the necessary clarification on the standards to be followed. In other words, this is the version of an official state which you have been applying as a government over all these months and has led to the serious entrepreneurs of all the sectors at despair as they are faced with every moment with new legislative interventions which are ambiguously divided, with references to future clarificationist ministerial decisions that are slowing down. In the consultation and the hearing of market operators, market operators were anxious about this issue of the lack of clarity of government positions. Producers also complained about the lack of up-to-date financial instruments that would facilitate the change of functions. But non-governmental organisations, too, have put forward relevant concerns about the lack of directives, lack of clarifications, highlighting the risks. Almost nothing that was heard was taken into consideration by the Ministry. The result is, on the one hand, that we have great declarations and, on the other, that the real economy remains unsupported, unsupported and uninformed. We tell you this, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and we invite you to make improvements. Because we don't want to do it. As you say. sterile opposition and we are willing to support your own interventions and initiatives. We do not hesitate to state that we consider the measure to be positive for public taps in Article 4, paragraph 10. However, we cannot remember the abolition of the Special Secretariat for Waters and its inclusion in an address of the Ministry of the Environment. Nor can we stress that you refused to vote on the relevant SYRIZA Constitutional Review proposal in order to guarantee the right of access to basic goods, drinking water and energy. A great opportunity has been lost in this constitutional revision because of your ideas and of course the interests you serve. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the recent natural disasters in our country and internationally stress the need to change human behaviour in the most marked way. If we do not act quickly and effectively, if we do not discuss the ways we produce again and the ways we consume, the future will prove dystopic. The circular economy can give answers and help. However, it is necessary to ensure that competent ministers and governments who believe in it do not see it as yet another chance to gain profit in the hands of the few and not for the interests of the many. In other words, there is a need for Ministers and Governments to stand on the opposite side of what the present majority in this House is unfortunately advocating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. Mr Boutsikakis Emmanuel - Christoforos, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform Mrs Christidou that professionals, especially in the focus sector, have already found the necessary solutions that are needed to cope with the reforms and changes which have been announced by the government for a long time and we are now legislating. Mrs Christidou, you should be aware that the solution is certainly not extra taxation, so that any use of unsuitable materials, such as plastics, can be extended, which we are trying to abolish. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first time the New Democracy Government has been planning and implementing integrated plans for dynamic and sustainable development. Today's bill is also, after a number of others, a great reform section. A section, which deals with upgrading environmental protection, turning to the green economy, in the context of the national energy and climate change plan. We are among the first countries throughout Europe to adopt the directive on the environmental impact of plastics. So we are going ahead with developments, and we are proud of that. Our aim is to move to the circular economy, innovation, sustainable business models, products and materials. We are motivating to promote prevention, reuse and recycling. We are preparing a specific action plan for the implementation of the directive. We are putting an end to this July, as I said before, at the disposal of disposable plastics. Finally, in the forks, in the glasses, in the plates, in the fissures and in all the related objects. We are increasing public taps to reduce the consumption of bottled water in disposable plastic bottles. And all of this, just as we had announced, because this government is doing it. In this way, we also restore citizens' confidence in the state. A state which, with the previous government, left only loose ends. You are now, for example, constantly talking about climate change, about what is coming for the environment, you are the same, which in the years of governance you have done absolutely nothing. And the list of what you haven't done for four and a half years and you haven't been able to do, as you say, goes away. So now you are accusing us of bringing this bill to the House early. A bill, whose necessary consultation and social dialogue began last year, to give citizens, operators, businesses and all stakeholders time to express their views. We are bringing the bill now, today, although the ban on disposable plastics will start next year in July 2021. And why is that? For everyone to be adapted, the market, the citizens, to the new requirements. For us, this means good legalization, timely legitimisation. We are legislating, after consultation with society and legislating in time to ensure that there is time to implement the law effectively, not to constantly resort to extensions and loose ends and to hang the entire market from the appetites of the government in question. For the Government of New Democracy, awareness of society is the first priority. With the cooperation of the Ministry of the Environment and the Joint Benefit of the Laskaridis Foundation, the campaign for Greece was already launched without disposable plastics. No change can take place unless society believes it and does not adopt it itself. A protagonist in the effort for a clean environment is the citizen himself. So we change Greece with an ally of the citizen. It is up to us, too, in this Chamber, to set the good example, such as the New Democracy that did it and in its last conference, it called on participants not to use non-recyclable materials. Congratulations are also worthy of businesses, bodies and organisations that, even before the current bill, which we are discussing, have already adopted practices for the gradual withdrawal of disposable plastics. Civil society, ladies and gentlemen, is here. Fortunately, my generation has realised all this and understands that we cannot remain dependent on our daily lives of products used only once, recycled and kept in the environment for centuries, harming it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to contribute to this effort, to the health of all of us, to the health and the future of our children, to deliver to the next generation a better environment and not to what we have received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Alexopoulou Christina has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the American businessman and politician, Ross Pero, said: 'Activist is not the one saying the river is dirty. Activist shall be the one that cleans the river.’ So about a year ago, on the day that Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the Prime Minister, he said we would go ahead with the abolition of disposable plastics. And we are doing so today, not by following, as before, the example of Europe, but finally by driving it. As we did with the pandemic, which more and more countries now follow the practice of Greek in dealing with it. We extend European environmental protection rules by adding our own enforcement measures. We have already introduced the abolition of specific disposable plastics. Earlier, so that citizens and businesses using them will not be surprised, as you do not admit that this is happening, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We have previously defined a more ecological production framework, with new design and an obligation for industries to use more recycled content in their products. We therefore think earlier that citizens, businesses and producers should be able to incorporate the changes in time. We identify sanctions for those who violate the law by way of fines. The profitability of illegal people cannot be based on environmental pollution and indifference to society as a whole. At the same time, however, we are looking to reward ourselves with all support and every instrument - with the ESRB programmes, for example - and that is the government's will to do with the businesses affected by the new legislation. In other words, at European level, we are now taking the lead in the environmental management of disposable plastics. Clear the river. The vast majority of society, ladies and gentlemen, wants to improve the way and place where it lives. It is ready not just to follow the changes, but to define and safeguard them. Take the smoking ban law, for example, that we voted in 2019. Who would say, a few years ago, that such a law would not just be voted on, but would be applied with reverence by the citizens. This is civil society, which precedes civil society. That is why in today's bill we make a stake in local communities, defining OTAs responsible for free water supply from public taps, so that citizens do not resort to plastic bottles as far as possible. We make the citizens themselves, with DRS, by adapting to modern times an old recycling policy, which older people may remember. As the glasses before, it will now be possible for plastic bottles to be returned to the point of sale, by granting a discount for future purchases. The past teaches us in recycling too. This draft law, however, in addition to the significant institutional changes it brings, has an indirect effect, which has not been stressed, I think is enough. You know, ladies and gentlemen, in order to reshape a country that has suffered economic, social, demographic and cultural shrinkage, it should focus on the new generation, which has good studies, modern skills and mood for creation. In this generation it is not enough to appoint the public or an allowance to keep it here. She needs something more, something higher. He needs inspiration. Inspiration on how to live in a country that is modern, European, with institutions that operate, in a country such as those that have visited and admired their simultaneous respect for the environment and economic development. And that is exactly what contributes crucially to the bill brought by the Government and the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Hatzidakis. It offers, together we all support, inspiration to our young people. It contributes to the Brain Drain becoming Brain Gain. Ladies and gentlemen, Finnish writer Henry Tikanen said: 'Because we do not think about future generations, they will never forget us'. As a new Republic, we want to be remembered and mentioned about what we have done and not about what we have not had to do beforehand. I would personally like them to remember me as one of the Members who supported the first essential step of plastic discharge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, my colleague, especially for keeping time. The next speaker is Mr. SYRIZA from the SYRIZA. Then prepare Mr. Themistoklis Himaras from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I went to Stepma, not to talk about the bill, because a lot of things have been said, but I have come up to support an amendment that I have signed with my colleague Mr Santorinio on the ownership status of grassland, those inhabitants who have the presumption of ownership. I don't know if you've accepted her because I wasn't at the time the Minister spoke. It is the amendment with a general number of 513 and a special 38. I really don't know. We don't have an answer. We would like to have a concrete answer as to whether you accept it. But before that, and since the third day before yesterday we coincided with the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, at the inauguration of the third phase of the electricity interconnection of the Cyclades with the mainland, a major project carried out by the IPTO, I would like to tell you and wonder how you think of such a project - for which the CEO Mr Manousakis said that the licence had been approved since 2008, went faster after 2015 and today with your own government, said, man that he actually went on to two governments without delay - how can you think about a body which is under the control of the public and which is doing such a work for him as well, but also about the 'DEDDIE', for which you are currently starting the privatisation process, and which are organisations that are doing a very important work and are doing so far as you can to achieve these agencies? This is really an idealism, I would say, because you are using this concept too many times for SYRIZA, I would say to you that you too have an ideal in favour of great private interests. And I will now go to the amendment. Indeed, the issue of the ownership status of grassland land in which the presumption of ownership does not apply, among them the Cyclades, is an issue that is afflicting tens, thousands of people and in the Cyclades, and hundreds, thousands, I would say, because it concerns other regions of the Aegean and other areas such as Kythira, Mani, etc. We have heard, throughout the period when we were government, too many cries and blind opposition from 'blue' officials from both the periphery and the municipalities. This provision came down at 31-5-2019. He did not have time to vote because the elections were held. Since then, 15, 16 months have passed, and it has not been adopted, despite the fact that it has been welcomed by all these institutions who have been proclaiming opposition to SYRIZA, today they are silent, they are not speaking at all and they are not complaining at all. We are therefore trying with this provision, which solves this problem, to follow up the serious initiatives developed by our government. In particular, Article 44 of Law 4546/2018 states that grassland with buildings and building permits may be placed under conditions other than forestry legislation. Also, under Article 6 of Law 4467/2017, we have resolved and defined the procedure for the adoption of an act of credentials on the nature of the field grazings, etc. Subsequently, on 13-5-2019, the National Council for the Classification of Forestry Areas was adopted, thereby allowing for the immediate correction of the land with algae vegetation on the forest map from grassland forests to be carried out immediately. This last initiative, which was taken on 31 May, I told you, unfortunately, had no luck to date, despite the fact that it solves the property issue and enables these areas to be exploited and transferred, because they will now belong without obstacles to forestry legislation to their owners. The clubs, the Cyclades Studies Association, the Cyclades Architects Association, institutions of government, mayors, etc., have come and asked for and met with Mr. Hatzidakis demanding that this problem be solved. If you do not accept this provision, it really is a good question, if you want to be in line with all those who were shouting - rightly so - that there is a serious problem with the property problem of the Cycladics and residents of many other regions of our country. That's all I wanted to say. I think you should accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I would just like to speak for a minute and apologise to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u212	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u213	I am well aware of this. And because we are in a situation where we are working on more general provisions that have emerged from problems and involvements, one of them, and it is important, it is the question of the right to property in grassland, where the presumption in favour of the public is applicable. I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u214	Now it's not for the public. This presumption is in favour of the owners.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u215	I know. I say it is not in an area where the presumption of ownership applies to the public, because the Cyclades, the Ionian Islands, Crete have a separate status. Throughout Greece, exactly...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u216	And they don't have to go to court to claim.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u217	I know this perfectly. Be sure it will be one of the issues that we will see. I hope that by the end of the year we will be ready, because we are working on it and everything else has as a loose end. I want to talk to you together. I've received, and I have it with me, your observation. It is an issue that we want to address. We will discuss this in order to manage it with the best and safest - and you understand what I mean by the word'safer' - a way toward the Council of State. So I'm at your disposal. I know. I'll talk to you about finding the safest solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u218	We accept your justification and expect and hope that it will be resolved positively for the good of hundreds of thousands of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u220	Mr Themistoklis Himaras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a world that changes daily under the pressure of climate change we must quickly adapt to the new data, change these habits and practices that unfortunately have damaged our natural environment. Our Government gradually develops a 'green agenda', proving that respect for the environment requires action. Let me, as a Member of Parliament, focus on the major issue of 'Larco', on the basis of the amendment that has been incorporated into this draft law. Mismanagements, omissions, malicious many years have led LARCO to a bad economic situation. The responsibilities of many and many. In short, after PPC, it was the biggest problem we inherited and we had to deal with it extremely quickly. Negligent bankruptcy was before the gates, which you, colleagues of the SYRIZA, are well aware of. The truth is that in four years you have not been able to stop the curse of 'LARCO'. Instead, you wasted valuable time, which we didn’t have, hid behind a complex problem and moved it to the next. Ordinary tactics. After all. Who's gonna pay? The next one will pay. Three clues. In 2015, Mr. Tsakalotos said the government's immediate priority is the reorganisation and development planning of the company. In 2017, Mr. Stathakis refers to the strategic plan prepared by the company and that in the autumn of 2017 he will be able to make important decisions. In 2018, Mr Stathakis himself said that a common point of understanding with a mutually acceptable solution to the issue of 'LARCO' should be found. Even today, if I ask you, you have no concrete and viable plan for LARCO. You blame previous governments for mistakes and vote. What do you have to show? You come as an Opposition today and do what? You swing the finger in terrorizing the workers and shedding crocodile tears for jobs. In your own hands, all jobs would be lost, one by one, because LARCO would be shut down in turn, gentlemen. Suggest the deal with PPC, move in the right direction. But it was also the New Democracy that kept LARCO open in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, preparing at the same time a master plan for its exploitation, which was accepted, approved by the Commission and rejected by you. Did you reject it when you were elected to replace it with what? With the void. Colleagues, there are no magical solutions. The New Republic's proposed plan was from the outset the liquidation, operation and privatisation of the company. We prevented bankruptcy by installing a special administrator, we sponsored the company with 35m euros for the first time in the decade. Special management has led to a mixture of its finances, a record of the company's assets, a plan of action. We have cleared through the arbitration what the assets of the company are and which of the Greek state are. The decision justifies the public, and now we're moving on to the contest. And I would like to remind you once again that the privatisation of LARCO sought it, and SYRIZA as a government. Mr Tsakalotou's letter has come to the House several times since Mr. Stakoura and Mr. Hadjidakis. The truth is that what has happened and what is happening in LARCO is well known. We must not be afraid to assume the responsibilities of our actions, even if these responsibilities are not our personal responsibility, but they are without doubt our political body. The responsibility lies with both PASOK and SYRIZA. The pure truth is that the governments over time faced LARCO as a large pool of votes, as a field of electoral policies, policies that undermined the prospects of LARCO, plundered it, undermined the future and valued its development prospects. On the back of LARCO and its employees, political careers were set up. It is the price of the state that Phthytida, Greece, has paid dearly for, and for, human-living workers. That is why we must enter a definitive perfection in this vicious circle and the "LARCO" must enter a era of profitability and sustainability. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] In closing, Minister, I address you. The local economy of the municipality of Lokras, Fthiotida and the whole region of Central Greece is based on the operation of the plant. I ask you again in public to take all possible steps to safeguard jobs. LARCO staff are valuable, experienced and able to cope with the new era of the company. We must do everything possible to ensure that these people are not left unworked, with whatever it can ensure to my fellow citizens in Locida a decent, sufficiently rewarding, and especially safe work in their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u222	Thank you. Mr Simopoulos Efstratios has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with two comments. One is a phrase by a former SYRIZA Minister for the Environment who is not present in the Chamber and the other by one of my colleagues from Karditsa. What did the first guy say? He said green politics isn't an empty shirt. I agree with him. Only he does not fill with hollow words and full of inappropriateness along with ideologies. My colleague from Karditsa said it was about the problems in Karditsa, and it was about climate change. I respond to her yes, but she is also responsible for the previous government of SYRIZA, which has stopped the partial diversion of Acheloos. Because if it had been the partial diversion of Acheloos, it would have been the dam in Musaaki, Mr. Famele, who moves your hands and you know it well. Now the dam in Musaaki would be ready and could absorb all these waters and we wouldn't have had the problems we had in Musaaki. So it is your fault that you and your government, especially for what happened in Carditsa, which is not known, because you yourself ordered the scholars - I have the mandate - not to include in the plans for the management of the water reserves of Thessaly and the partial diversion, and I do not know whether what you did was legal. So I'm still talking about the empty shirt again. The empty shirt fills with arrangements for forest maps, which relate to a hundred thousand people who have objections and are hostages of the process, fills with taking the management bodies and taking them to a central unit at the Ministry, yes, because they were basically management bodies in the words, fills up by making the waste transhipment station in Eukapia and fills in despite the fact that many of the MPs of SYRIZA Thessaloniki and the executives were in the bars, but then they went with Mr. Tsipras and inaugurated the transhipment station in Eukarpia. I now come to LARCO. You like the word 'cheque', the word 'expropriations', the word'statement'. What can we do, though? These are in other times. We can't keep a lively problematic business. The farmer who has never been to Athens or Thessaloniki cannot pay out of the budget for troubled businesses. The government is doing nothing but apply its policy. That's what he said, that's what he does, that's what he's going to do. You're talking about selling. How about you? You said the same about 'TRAINOSE' and the 400 million became 40 million. Did you give TRAINOSE for 40 million and you're still talking about selling? Why didn't it happen for PPC itself? You stopped PPC's "little" which would put a 1.5 billion dollars into PPC's funds and, of course, would also have another 1.5 billion. And what did you do? Get the NOME. So the conclusion is that, yes, green policy is this government's Mitsotakis. It is a policy that is not a 'empty shirt', like yours. It is not an empty shirt and, above all, it is not a black environmental policy. Because with your inappropriateness and your ideas, we are actually talking about a black environmental policy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u225	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u226	Yes, Mr. President. I won't do any more. It seems, Mr President, that, unfortunately, Mr Simopoulos is from time to time seeking out extreme expressions and insurmountable extremities to draw attention to and link his name to political persons, so that he can come out in news reports or the media. I'm not going to follow him on this. I shall refer to the insult he made in my name by saying that SYRIZA carried out irregular acts, particularly that if projects such as the Acheloos diversion had been carried out, the flood would not occur in Cardica.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u227	To Musaki!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u228	Look. It has no information, obviously, for plumbing or environmental characteristics. What I have to say is that during SYRIZA's governance, the River Reservoir Basin Plan and the Pollution Risk Management Plan and the Climate Change Adjustment Plan became a reality. I wish one of the three to make sure you update it and make sure that it is implemented. Because your government hasn't done it yet. Second matter. It is clear that on the basis of the Plan for the Management of River Lefkanos, regional authorities and self-government should have made progress - which you must go to look for why it was not - in various anti-military protection dams in Thessaly. I think you should ask the district manager why he didn't move on to all of this. Because we signed them, Mr Simopoulos. And the third one. To charge me that I sent a letter - which I do not believe will be found anywhere, was rather the Special Secretary - falsely, until he does not know that there was a decision by the Council of State and the European Court of Justice on the non-exhaustiveness of Acheloos, it is not just a lie, it is a utopia in which Mr Simopoulos lives. We'll leave him in her. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, may I have the floor for a reply?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u230	Come on, Mr. Simopoulos. But he didn't say anything personal about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u231	I didn't say anything about him either. What I'm talking about is the mild diversion of Acheloos. I am not talking about the diversion of Acheloos, which has fallen into the Council of State. The two hundred million cubics are 1/10 out of the original two billion cubic cubics. So if these projects were carried out, projects which the current government has declared by the relevant Minister that it will carry out them, we would not have had the problems in Mussolaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u232	Mr Simopoulos, it's the government for this. Mrs. Pulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first point is that the government systematically violates the law of a state of staff and the unfortunate article 57 on good legislature, since every bill that it tables in the House falls short of the principles it itself has adopted. And today we are in front of another monument of misrepresentation, but from the evil one. The government calls on the opposition parties to vote for a so-called 'green' bill, while at the same time accompanying it with amendments that are not relevant and very serious. They are amendments relating to issues of national importance, which have actually occurred at the last moment, without having been discussed in committee, without consulting the actors and civil society, and which, as we will see subsequently, come to annul and amend its own legislation on the same issues. In addition, Minister, your interest in the environment and its protection was reflected in the environmentally friendly Law 4085/2020, which, among other things, led to the general upset of local communities. We will not stop pointing out that the lack of specific spatial planning, with specific criteria and specifications, destroys high-protection property, causes local reactions and ultimately undermines green energy in itself. The reactions in Kefalonia today, as well as the recent mobilisations in Boeotia, prove the lack of this planning and your unwillingness for substantial dialogue with local communities. Your autocracy causes chain reactions and, in conjunction with the inappropriate use of the energy communities, which were institutionalised with SYRIZA's Law 4513/2018, which immediately established developmental and rewarding benefits in different local communities and professional groups, strengthens local reflexes against green energy. Today's bill is also vague and confusing the market, consumers and industry. The final lists of disposable plastics are not specified and they are transferred to clarification in future ministerial decisions, thus proving your dubiousness and the purely communication management of the matter on your part. While we could essentially discuss, with constructive proposals integrating the European directive on reducing environmental impacts from disposable plastics, which is not your innovation, as you triumph, but your Union obligation, you overshadow the debate and disapprove it with the heavy and important amendments, as you are accustomed to in all the legislations. Minister, we can very well understand what's going on. We can well see behind the green bait, the light of the sale of public property. For that is exactly what you are trying to do with the amendment to 'DEDEFOP', 'DUMP' and, of course, 'LARCO'. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Region of Central Greece, I will concentrate exclusively on the subject of 'Larco'. Three days ago, Minister, you tabled Amendment No 512/37, which refers to Larco and substantially amends the provisions of Article 21 of Law No4664/2020, that is, the law that you voted only eight months ago. In a deliberately unclear and incomplete way, you are now describing the tender procedures, moving forward to some very specific and very curious changes of wording in relation to what was contained in the original law. What, though, are these changes predicted? "The devil hides in the details," says the known phrase and is fully confirmed in our case. I will point out two points here. The first refers to two changes in the designation of the tender and the participants in it. From a ‘public voyage’ provided for in the Act of February, it is now open’ and the ‘citizen’ is called ‘predominant candidate’. I am sure you will justify these changes as minor recasts in the right direction. But you don't convince us. These changes are not innocent, because they reveal the game played in the background, the opaque processes, that is, for which you are preparing the competition, the understandings you make with the potential investors and which, obviously, are in line with their requirements. Why else can the fact of the urgent amendment be explained? The second point also refers to two very important exceptions to the provisions of the Mining Code. In particular, you are exempt from Article 84 and Article 144(2). Are these two articles random? As we can see at all, it is precisely because it concerns the mining 'private' of 'LARCO', which makes it attractive. How, then, can we not worry, when we find that both of these articles are repealed, correspond to the security differences in favour of the public interest? Article 84 of the Mining Code refers to rent and mining rights and therefore its removal means that there is no guarantee not only for a minimum lease price, but not even for a lease. Everything is left open to negotiation, except under the Mining Code. In addition, Article 144(2) of the Code provides that not only does the price of the tender mean a certain amount of money, but it can be taken into account whether the majority of the bidder will proceed to future investments, conduct investigations or exploit the ore in another way. The security test here refers to ensuring the exploitation of national mineral wealth as the ultimate objective. Therefore, the combined removal of these two provisions of the Mining Code assures us that the government's planning, promoted by this amendment, is depreciation, closure of LARCO, but also of its mines and sale of all of them. And if you think that we are suspicious, explain to us, Minister, what exactly these two exceptions serve. Can you deny that you are planning the closure and sale of the mines? The thousands of two hundred employees of LARCO, but also all Greek citizens, demand to know. Ladies and gentlemen, LARCO is a critical national capital and especially for the Region of Central Greece, a key development and wealth-making pillar. It is the only ironic industry in the European Union, with a strong export character, employs a thousand two-two workers and thousands of others, suppliers, contractors and transporters live from its activity. How did the Government of New Democracy handle 'LARCO'? In February she put her in a special management regime with a view to her alleged salvation. In fact, however, she has done nothing all this time to ensure her future, but also the future of the workers. The pandemic was indeed an opportunity to save itself as a national strategic enterprise, with European funding programmes, as other countries in Europe have chosen. However, its future was predetermined by the 2014 hair plan, inspired by Mr. Stagiras, but also by the experience of Mr. Hatzidakis, who had already sold "Olympian" in a similar manner. The SYRIZA Government, despite the suffocating budgetary conditions, maintained LARCO in operation, ensuring all jobs and workers' rights. On the contrary, your government will remain in history as the author of the last act in the tragedy of "LARCO". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much. Please, ladies and gentlemen, keep the time. I would like to say to my fellow Members that on 28 July 2017 - I will make no further comment - we had caused and had a terrible debate on LARCO in the committee. It is of great value, because we have spoken too many, to read the Minutes. These were the workers who were present in this process. So it is important that you read the Minutes. Mr Constantinidis Efstathos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, unfortunately the facts, the news runs. Lockdown was just imposed on Kozani, the Regional Unit of Kozani, because of increased cases. I call on all my fellow citizens to show caution, attention, to respecting the measures and, of course, the government, to implement all those measures, to intervene in the fight against pandemic and, of course, to restore the wounds that this restriction will leave. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an excellent, purely ecological draft law with the incorporation of a Community directive on the restriction of plastics in our lives. It is also part of the European Union's planning to reduce the environmental footprint. The dramatic acceleration of climate change is a global issue and as such cuts ideologies, national policies and calls for horizontal measures and rules to be adopted. For the same reasons, it requires the development of a national strategy and its decisive implementation, away from interests and political purposes. This draft law incorporates in the legal order the European rule on the drastic reduction of waste from disposable plastics and fishing gears. In particular, it sets out and clearly defines its implementation scope, sets ambitious quantitative targets, sets a tight timetable for their achievement, regulates the procedures and rules at each stage, gives incentives to those who comply and counteract the stimulus to those who mobilize or care not. It also confers responsibilities on control bodies and imposes penalties for infringements. It shall provide resources for the consortium actions and for the construction of the necessary infrastructure. It sets out control and reporting phases for the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures. It provides - and this is perhaps the most important - for extensive information, education and awareness-raising obligations for citizens. It shall, finally, ensure the necessary powers to specialise the arrangements. The message is clear and understandable: We are not removing plastics, but we are drastically limiting them to our daily lives. We do not want to see the hideous images of plastic waste on the streets, the squares, the beaches and the seas anymore. The same clear and clear message is the message to both producers and professionals, whom the law directs re-use and recycling practices. It is, however, the responsibility of the state to ensure the tools that will make the transformation of the businesses involved in this process sustainable. This is therefore a modern and excellent piece of legislation, which is introduced in time for a vote to be an estate of the interested parties, but also the bodies that need to be adapted to the new context. However, even this legislative initiative meets the refusal of Officerial Responsibility. Look at the oxymobile of the matter: SYRIZA boasts that he participated in the formulation of the European directive, but does not vote in favour of its incorporation into national law. This is the epitome of the sterile confrontation, to use also the dearest to the rapporteur of the Civilian Opposition term. You are trying, ladies and gentlemen, to find an alibi for your attitude behind the amendments. The privatizations mentioned fall under government planning and we were committed to their implementation. What happened? Have you restarted the retro policy, the thousands of unravelled cassettes, you, who have put your signature under the biggest sales the place has ever seen? Members reminded you earlier: airports, railways, IPTO, the sale of real estate, the PPC units, which you have come to sell without a minimum price. But what do you have to say about Larco? Why didn't you go ahead in four and a half years? Why did you leave the company with huge debts and workers and traders with it literally in the air? For the last private creditors, Mr. State Secretary, I would remind you of their legal request for the partial fulfilment of their unpaid claims. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis puts its seal on the circular economy and on green growth. That's what bothers the Left, that the New Democracy entered a field that was traditionally monopolizing. They don't mind what we're enacting. That's what everyone agrees with. It bothers them that we do it. We will, however, continue to do so because it is for the sake of the environment, the economy, the country and the citizens. Undersecretary, the environmental contribution to demolition fuelled my thoughts of imposing a corresponding fee on other products that would finance cyclical economy actions. Such would be the introduction of a minimum contribution for each electrical and electronic device and for each PV component corresponding to their recycling costs. The anticipation of such a demolition would ensure the viability of a large recycling plant in our country, which could, for many reasons, have its seat in Kozani, which is in transition. This debate escapes the specialisation of the proposal, which I intend to submit to the consultation of the draft for the fair development of Western Macedonia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Constantinidis. Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for a long time we have been listening to the greenest Prime Minister, we are hearing about a green bill, but I really am the only green one that I see today is the color of the dollars, the color of the many dollars that will be won by all those who are going to get the sale of LARCO, those who will buy for a lentine bill the flagship of Europe's mining industry, the unique, rather European nickel mining company or those who will ultimately be able to benefit if the company is closed down. And I'm talking about her competitors. If the company closes, according to the winding-up process that you have been running since February 2020, only those people will see the green. For them, of course, you take care of them too, which is something you do extremely well. And you are now bringing an amendment to the vote and you are exempting from the whole procedure that runs from February the application of Articles 84 and 144(2) of the Mining Code. So, on the one hand you do not put a minimum rent on the company's mining rights - so they can be sold at zero price - while on the other you are legally covering the possible closure of the mines, if a competitor gets it, as this scenario is heard, to close it and increase the price and value of the company that is already operating. Unfortunately, those who do not see the color of money are the workers, the workers, whom you have reduced from February and after wages, who have cut their presents, the workers, who are working in a difficult situation in furnaces, the workers who in previous years have mourned their colleagues and in the past one and a half months had more than four fatal accidents. Unfortunately, they will not see the color of money from the New Democracy Government and from Mr Hatzidakis' initiatives. Also, the color of the money won't be seen by the company's contractors and associates for so many years, who have been in good faith and according to what the company's administration said, which you had appointed after the election, set a back and saw the liquidator one day tell them that they would be erased what debts have been accumulated until February of this year. No one cares about them. And I hear Members of the New Democracy begging the Minister, saying: "Give something to these people who worked for so many months in the company and paid VAT from their pockets, the contractors, you, who are very good ministers." They will not see the color of money and the pensioners or those who in a few years would be retired from "LARCO" and would receive compensation which they have worked under adverse conditions in cancer. But you don't think about them. I don't see you cut for them! Also, of course, it will not see the color of money and the company itself, LARCO, as the strategy you followed and its valuation closes and has closed the previous period of contracts for the sale and export of nickel at lower prices than the stock exchanges. Why? Because everyone knows the fate you hold them. So you are continuing today the process of divesting LARCO, without any commitment and without any guarantee of continuing the operation of the company, without any guarantee of the company's productive character and of course without any guarantee of the jobs of the thousands of people employed in LARCO. I was really amazed at the very rich vocabulary that New Democracy colleagues had describing the situation as "tragic", "blue-driving", "downstream". I'm really wondering, isn't this a cause? Isn't this the name of the situation? Before going up to this step, colleagues, ask yourself who led the company into this situation. If you want, go up to the Ministry of Rural Development and find your Deputy Minister, Mr. Skreka, who had been appointed his father to "LARCO" twelve years ago and took just 9,000 euros to live, for the soul of his mother! In fact, he has appointed the whole family of Mr Skreka to LARCO! And you're coming here to tell us who bankrupt LARCO? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ask your members about the 2006 hedging with 2010, which the company had lost half a billion, 500 million euros! You executives have done all this! And you're gonna come move our finger and tell us who went down to Larco? Mr. Hatzidakis said he owed PPC. Yes, it owes PPC because in 2006 the administrations designated by the New Democracy more than doubled the electricity price. Tell me, how can a company that has as much power as a way out to triple the electricity price, whether it's competitive or not? Again, with excessive hypocrisy and phantomism, Minister Hatzidakis said that LARCO pollutes wildly, which he has said many times before. He forgets, however, that he was the Minister himself, when he last signed the extension of permits to pollute LARCO, as he says. He signed them! And today we are being played by a green minister! However, I also heard the other dreadful by Mr Hatzidakis, who, by addressing SYRIZA, said that the world heard you and voted for you. Mr Hatzidakis is probably not aware of what the members of the New Democracy said, the MPs, its ministers, when they were electorally going to LARCO. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Stavros said he would take initiatives to ensure jobs. And I ask you this: where is it that you ensure the jobs you bring with today's amendment? I am looking to find a reference to the word 'working' in the amendment and I do not find it! How do you care about the workers without even mentioning them? You have references to a social fund, to answers, to questions, and to the appointments you make to the ministries. You say that you will take social protection measures, that there will be programmes against unemployment, training, retraining and reintegration into the labour market. People in Larco, in Larymna, in Martino, in Malesina have a job to do and they know this job very well. This job was done by their fathers and their children and they worked for 50 years in "Larco". They don't want reintegration into society and work. What they want is work to live their families and offer to local communities. They don't want any programs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u238	Mr Colleague, you will have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u239	I shall conclude, Mr President. I have heard a colleague from the New Democracy saying that our young people are proud and do not want to live with benefits. This should be told to the Minister, or rather to the ministers working on scenarios by closing the company, scripts of benefits and social protection measures for the workers of LARCO. Closed up and because I've exceeded time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u240	You doubled him, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u241	All right, I doubled him, Mr. President. So, from the Step of the House, Mr. Hadjidakis, to come on Saturday at 11 a.m. the hour in Larymna, where there will be a great gathering of the workers to explain this excellent plan to them, to speak to the people who burn in the furnaces, to talk to the relatives of the victims of the company and to tell them how many jobs they will be able to secure and how many will fly on the road. Saturday at 11:00, Mr. Hatzidakis, come to Larymna!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Delegation meets on the incorporation of the European Union directive on the reduction of certain plastic products. So, in order to be able to communicate with each other, it is not an innovation of the government majority or a remarkable initiative that breaks the established perceptions. It is a commitment to the European Union, and so we have to legislate. But this famous argument of yours about 'green government' is nothing but a symphony leaf for what you have done and what you are working for the country's environment. You have effectively undermined the functioning of the management bodies by merging them and by reducing the staff capacity, by limiting their responsibilities, by placing incompatible activities in protected areas, by abolishing NATURA 2000 sites, cancelling forest maps, allowing the incineration of waste and all this constitutes the government's green activity! I am speaking as a member of Drama, and we are being praised by the Dragons, because we have the largest forest complex in the country, the famous Virgin Forest of Fraktu, and we are actually feeling the consequences of this unreasonable environmental policy. But basically local societies are called upon to implement the law that you are going to vote on. And these are not prevention policies, they have no recycling policies. In fact, while consensus can be reached on environmental issues, no consensus is reached and you are drawing the path of your liberal concept alone. There really had to be a public information campaign. Nothing's happened. You were confined to sharing us with a cup of ice cucumber and a cup of coffee. This type of communication your basically isolates, makes society hostile, and we see it in consultation with the operators that people don't know what to produce, what to do with disposable plastics, is not set the list of single use. And it is so embarrassing that you refer them all to ministerial decisions of the next period, with which the law will actually work. It is only communication - we have said it many times - and society goes across. I conclude with the amendment, adding number 514/2019/14-10-2020, concerning Article 3 of Law 4734/2020. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, there is a very serious problem with the country's international situation in relation to black money. You have already taken an initiative some time ago and have left all that was confiscated in the black money hunter, and as a result those who were involved in this story can claim and return the confiscations to them. So today you are telling us that you are reintroducing the offences for which there is a benefit and which are at least punished by imprisonment with the amendment. While you have already excluded some of the main offences that produce primary black money, you have created a security test, which we do not know how many people could fit in and remind you that criminal law is a tough, formal law. This interpretative provision is not certain to have the results you want and those who favoured the very minimum period of the amended provision are mocking Greek society, because with the backs of the New Democracy they have managed to safeguard what has been illegally acquired. There is no other way to go from here to this unacceptable amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u244	Thank you to Mr Xanthopoulou and to keep time. The next speaker is Mr Liutas from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Hatzigiannakis is in the position of Mr Zachariadis. Mr. Liuta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today this House is coming to the House to discuss and vote for another law by the Government of New Democracy with a large environmental footprint. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, are aware that we must protect the environment. Joint consciousness that through our environmental strategy is based in practice on a step-by-step, law, work with work. Protecting the environment, protecting life, protecting society and the economy. Today we are legislating to deal with plastic pollution. This is a green objective. It is an objective to ensure health. Plastic pollution in particular in the Greek seas is a major threat. We've all seen each other on our coastlines, and at least that's sad. It is really threatening, it hurts the marine ecosystem and biodiversity as a whole. It's a cause of the death of the sea animals and a threat against the human being. Infection can enter the food chain, causing adverse effects on human health. At the same time, pollution comes and pollutes the huge coastlines of our country, injuring our national natural advantage. Our clean seas are undoubtedly a lullaby in our national tourism policy. So our legislation today comes to help protect the environment, human life and the image of our own country. Moving on to the contents of the draft legislation in particular, we must stress the critical objective of limiting disposable plastics. To this end, a large disposable plastic category will be withdrawn from the market. The first example will also be given by the Greek State, for which, from the beginning of the year, these disposable plastics will be a past. With the entry into force of this law, citizens as consumers are consciously called upon to develop new consumption habits and a new daily behaviour. Production and industry are being called upon to adapt. Their production will be highly linked to the objective of recycling. Incentives and penalties are provided for the award and compliance respectively with the important environmental objectives set. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are called upon to change. We are now being called upon by actions to develop a new environmental morality and to live with the belief that man must respect the environment and nature, that we can no longer destroy the environment. What we are discussing today is part of our overall national environmental strategy, a strategy that has been designed and implemented so that significant results can be obtained immediately and that is because it is imperative and necessary to happen. The climate crisis, and in our country, gives us its 'precautionary' with tragic results. We must not allow man in front of the new data to be weak, the economy to slow down and the environment to melt. So responsibility is born and it's in our hands. We must act and that is what we are doing. Furthermore, it should be noted that, when we discuss the environmental strategy, at the same time we are discussing the transition towards sustainable development and the prosperity of each society. The necessary transition towards a circular and green economy today is the Treaty on sustainable development tomorrow. We are strategically transforming our productive model, aiming at a constant rise in the incomes of all Greeks. The impact will be brave for primary production, for fisheries, for agriculture, for livestock and for all kinds of production. For trade and industry, the impact will also be significant, as today and tomorrow, survival, expansion and development are interlinked with attracting green and intelligent investments. With our policy, we are not staying behind. On the contrary, we're going forward. Let us all consider the great importance of this policy today. Today, when man faces the deadly crisis of the coronary, today we need an environment, from that earth, those waters and air that will shield us against the health threats. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress that today we are making a great election commitment, a commitment by our own Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. Once again, our society is becoming a society of truth. That truth shows that the Government of New Democracy is a government of acts. The acts that shield the lives of all Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, environmental protection is linked to all policies, supports our entire economy, our lives and sets out a much better and more prosperous future for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u246	Thank you. Now Mr Hatzigiannakis Miltiadis has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. When the first amendment to LARCO had come, you again had chosen the way of the very good legislature of your state and within an irrelevant bill, ratification - if I remember correctly - an act of legislative content, you had brought an entire amendment to LARCO, in which, in reality, you put the tombstone for this great company and hundreds of workers throughout Greece, mainly in Fthiotis and Evia, most of them. At that time, we told you of the amazing way of legislating, of the consultation that you kept in mind by the workers, which you kept in the local communities, which you kept in Parliament. Sadly, however, you show that not only do you care about the class, but all that matters to the Minister of the Environment, but also to the Minister of Finance... Why should the Minister for Finance be here today, who is from Fthiotis and who has lifted a huge burden, because he had brought Genarris to the gathering just before you brought the first amendment to Larymna, to the workers' premises, and he had told us a lot of things, how good care you will show for the workers, how good care you will show for the company, but this chronic problem has to be solved. I have heard Mr Simopoulos say a moment ago that you as a government can no longer finance, with the money of the Greek people, loss-making businesses. Who? You. You, who went bankrupt by "LARCO", who had put all the posters and salaries on your own people - we had brought them to you with details - in the period 2004-2009. At the time that, unfortunately, you closed contracts, which were an economic tombstone of the company. And you have courage to say that you cannot finance a company that you yourself have been bankrupt with your policies. Of course - because this is happening right now, the knot has reached the comb - you've been spreading, but through offices, ministerial or parliamentary offices, to workers... Because today in the amendment you are actually selling out all the assets, as we had unfortunately anticipated all the previous times that the matter has come to Parliament, but also to all our public positions. We didn't guess anything terrible. So you sell out the remaining information of the company, you give it to a private person, to whom you are sending the workers orally, of course - as I said before - through offices, ministerial or parliamentary offices, that, if they are good children, they will be recruited by the new situation that will come - I do not know if you have anticipated any competition, if you know who is interested, if you know who will get the facilities, if there will be interest, if you know to tell us, so that we know it, as well - in order to discover their justified indignation and anger. To appease and actually blackmail the consciences of the employees who will not know from tomorrow how to live the rest of their lives. Why don't you even mention what you said in Larymna in the first time, that you will carry them under various provisions, that you will call them the officials of the ECJ or the wider public sector, and that they will be able to be transferred. You have no welfare. And now, in meetings with the Ministry of Labour, you tell them you'll find money from the NSRF to give some crumbs to the big, voluntary departures. That's what we understand, because you have nothing clear, nothing written. All in oral and all in complete opacity. So the areas that will completely marvel at the fishing grounds of Evia, the municipality of Locres, which do not know tomorrow what will happen, obviously neither Mr Stagira nor Mr Hatzidakis are interested. In any case, Mr. Hatzidakis has proved it from his course that he is the man of difficult missions. It works with cold blood. He doesn't care about families and how they live in these areas. And he's the expert on the sudden death of companies. At least in the past, he gave something like a life plan and a lifesaving plan for the workers. This time we don't even know what we're going to tell the people that Saturday in Larymna will look into our eyes and ask for help. Unfortunately, with your responsibility, you put a tombstone on "LARCO" with conditions of complete opacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u248	Mr Spankis has the floor. Mr. Spankee, within five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the incorporation into national legislation of the new European Union directive on reducing the environmental and health impact of a range of plastic products, introducing further measures on production, supply and on reducing consumption. In continuing with the rich legislative work, the Government of New Democracy brings this directive to the House immediately. We often mention this, but it is important, which is why we stress it. Because the usual practice was to be done after a few years. Last, once in Europe. Repeated recommendations and usually off-limits. What about the worst? With large fines for Greece, with large fines for the pocket of each Greek household. On this point, because I am talking about deadlines and because we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of the Environment, let me address the relevant Minister and two important issues, for which there is an urgent need for an extension. The first is the process of submitting declarations of arbitrary construction and supporting documents, which ended on 30 September, there were serious problems, but you can even now come and help the engineers and help the Greek economy by giving this extension. Please warmly from this Step to see the topic of extension. Mr Tagaras, you have a very great experience too. Yes, although the deadline expired on 30 September, but even now we can make a remedial move. The second is the extension of the deadline for the correction of the first real estate records, which, yes, expires on 31 December, but it is very important that it should be extended so that the owners do not lose their rights. I say this, and I have tabled relevant questions, because I am disgraceful of the concern of thousands of engineers, thousands of owners throughout the country, and I think that Minister Hatzidakis, Mr Tagaras and the appropriate secretaries will see this issue in order to find a solution. We need to understand the agony of thousands of free professional engineers. As I said before, the Ministry of the Environment brings the directive to Parliament earlier than the deadline for the European Commission. We do this so that there is time to adapt everyone in time and smoothly. Moreover, the provisions of Article 14, which include awareness-raising measures, are also in this direction. The aim of information programmes and actions is to encourage consumers to change consumer behaviour with a view to protecting the environment. Such information programmes shall also be established for professionals, such as in the fisheries and aquaculture sector for the management of fishing gear. The performance of these awareness-raising measures, ladies and gentlemen, is matched by the success of the results we want. In particular, we must discuss this very seriously and not just through Europe's legislation on garbage, seas and fisheries. It is vital for Greece. Article 11 of this Directive sets out arrangements for the extended producer's liability programme for fishing gear, which sets out specific rules to reduce discards in the seas. It is expected that, especially for producers, there will be a negative impact on the implementation of the directive and we also have an important plastic industry in the country. But - and we must stand by this - there is care through the drafting of a specific action plan, which is provided for in a specific programme of the ESDP. More generally, we need to look at the issue of costs for citizens - consumers and producers and suppliers, so that there are no major increases. We are already experiencing - and we do not know until then - the financial consequences of the pandemic. During the time we are going through the coronary measures we have necessarily increased the use of disposable plastics. It is reasonable, but we must see that environmental protection is of concern to us all. With today's draft law, Europe and our country are continuing to move towards economic growth, which will also protect the environment with sustainable business models, with a circular economy, because we can achieve growth and investment by protecting the environment and by extension health. Ladies and gentlemen, environmental care is not a hobby, it is not a luxury for a few. It's our everyday life. We're all concerned, and we're all responsible. It's about our health. There is no other way, which is why all Parliament's wings must today vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u250	Thank you. Mrs Manolaku has the floor to ask Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. As the speakers are finishing, we have not been told by the Minister or by the Deputy which parliamentary amendments he accepts or not, so that we can prepare ourselves, as soon as the vote begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u252	Mr Minister, at some point you will tell us which amendments you are accepting and which are not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u253	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hatzidakis is missing, but Mr Tagaras is here. Minister, because you are a modest and quiet man, you said in your position for the national front, for the difficult hours we spend, etc. Only you know something? The national front only remembers when you're government. When you are opposition, "land fire is reduced". I would really like to find a man who, at the time when we were resolving the agreement that is now being implemented, was saying what you are saying today. "My knowledge of always having you." Not only a deficit of national strategy and compass, but also a deficit of adequacy and courage facing the country, as citizens feel that things are difficult, that the hours we spend are difficult and anxious, with concern, asking us what will happen, because the threatened situations bring to the mind other images, dramatic images. In fact, when we heard the Prime Minister on 12 August saying 'no challenge will remain unanswered', is that it? "No challenge has remained unanswered," Mitsotakis said. On 2 October he said: "The threat of sanctions will be more effective than sanctions." We saw that. Instead of sanctions, you took a very good fanciful toolbox and apparently Erdogan doesn't understand from toolboxes. Is there a more deafening, defiance of a country's Prime Minister in his assessments, decisions and positions? Did you ever want sanctions for Turkey or your colleague, Mr Varvitsiotis, was really telling the truth here, in this House, that 'the sanctions are not in our strategy'? Where are the 'lions', the 'patriotics' that were ravaged in this Chamber, until of course they took the chairs and the power and now they look like the thong that became a lamb? Will anyone ever speak the language of the truth? We told you before the European Council about a necessary framework for strong European sanctions against Turkey with a trigger clause. We told you that if the European Council were to go through it, Turkey would be devastated. We told you on 21 September that we were leaving Cyprus alone, that we were canceling sanctions before they were covered, that after the European Union Summit Turkey would re-route the ships in the Aegean Sea. It's written. Scripta manent. They find and do. After the drama with 'Oruts', will they now go to the next stage and what is that? We cannot imagine a country's Prime Minister not knowing what the mere Member understands. He doesn't have the team of partners who will equip him with the files of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc. Or are we now going to dramatization, to come after the next plan that is essentially to be considered in the Aegean Sea, hence the choice of the new Security Council, Mr Doku? We were telling you that we were missing the opportunity to get sanctions against Turkey by vetoing the decisions on Belarus and we said that the European Council would decide. Penalties for Belarus at the same time as the others. They now refer back to December. Turkish International Law does not provide for rights in neighbouring countries, except for the right to submit. It is easier to square the cycle than to find a path of international law through dialogue with Erdogan's Turkey. I shall close my reference to national ones and I do not want to go on because I hope that the Prime Minister and the government of the country will at this very very last moment bring that blur which will shield peace and which will be a truly effective position and view, which will serve both national dignity and national presence. Even at the last moment, the government will assume its responsibilities, limit the damage to national interests. He has to convene a council of political leaders to cover the gloomy gap in relation to the national strategy and united in addressing the Turkish challenges. I now come to the issue of my town, Thessaloniki. In the midst of a pandemic, when the measure of the limitation of movements was in force, you have changed by fast track procedures the environmental license of the cement industry "TITAN" so that in a long time it will be possible to burn RDF waste and alternative fuel. You have completely ignored, Mr Tagaras, the reactions of the inhabitants of western Thessaloniki and more than twenty institutions and clubs, as well as the reactions of the mayors of the region, who, for the vast majority of them, belong to the New Democracy, while you knew that the implementation of such a project will have a significant impact on the environment, health and quality of life of the inhabitants of western Thessaloniki, as well as on the entire urban complex in the midst of summer and pandemic. Despite the reactions of environmental bodies, you put the national waste management plan for consultation at the end of August and approved it through a Ministerial Council and did not bring it to the House, ignoring the House in full. A new NRP of the New Democracy Government, which promotes an anti-environmental and costly waste management model - that of burning RDF the garbage - and of course binds the country and self-government through your favourite PPPs in private processing plants. You come today with this so-called green berth - to cover the divestment of the public property 'LARCO', 'DEDEE', 'Infrastructure'. And say what in Thessaloniki, Mr. Tagaras? Mr Tagara, 'TITAN'. We have proposed it and I want to submit it to the Minutes. Why would you say to me: 'You said that when SYRIZA was in government?' Here I have my position on June 25, 2015: “SOS emits Eukaryia, first the health of the residents and the protection of the environment”. And then we said, and we proposed instead of garbage and RDF burning that cement industry natural gas. It is possible at the time we recommend to all dwellings, to buses, to cars to reduce environmental impacts, to prefer gas, to recommend to a large cement industry that is within the urban fabric, you know how to set you up photographs of environmental incidents, how they can't open up...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Colleague, you've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u257	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Thank you for understanding. You know, citizens photograph environmental incidents in western Thessaloniki. They dare not open their windows. They can't stand the smell. They have a right to breath, Mr. Tagaras. For this breath, theirs and their children, why hasn't there been an epidemiological investigation into what effect it has? That is why the bodies of the day - and I put this in the Minutes - are mobilized and went to the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace to bronze "we have a right to breathing, we have a right to the clean atmosphere, we have the right to live in our place." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u258	Thank you. Now, Mr. Kalamatiano has been deleted. Mrs. Avgerinopoulou Dionysia is not here. We'll have a little break until the Minister gets here. Three roll-call votes have been tabled at the same time. You understand that it would be a large number within the Chamber and we consider the presence of colleagues to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is continuing. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have two bodies of legislative improvements. Legislative techniques are basically standard. You'll see them anyway. The most important thing is that we provide for a joint ministerial decision on the definition of manifestly inappropriate in relation to plastics. That the alternative management systems will deliver an opinion before the EEAN decision and the allocation of contributions to the municipalities. It is forbidden to sell any SPVs in the ‘infrastructure contest’ for five years. Just fill in the layout. In self-control of renewable energy producers, as long as the TEI does not draw up a list, the individual will be entrusted with engineering. These are, in my opinion, the most basic. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 452a, 452b and 452c]] I would like to say that from the parliamentary amendments we are accepting Amendment No 517 and from Mr Giorgos Amyras's specialty in extending the temporary bicycle paths that we have established in the run-up to COVID. We are not accepting Amendments Nos 516 and No 41 by Mr Kelles. Amendment No 518 and Amendment No 43 by Mr Famellos for the IGC and Amendment No 513 and by Mr Armalenios for the vegetarians. The Undersecretary spoke, Mr. Tagaras, and he explained our position. For Mr Kelles' amendment, I would like to say that we will bring in a government regulation on this issue. We have no distance from this amendment. After all, Mr Harakopoulos had tabled a similar amendment a few months ago. We are basically dealing with them positively, but we want to work on the matter further with the General Secretariat and to table a government regulation soon in a next bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u262	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is an amendment to Mr Amyra's general number 515. He's obviously retired. I imagine it came as an improvement, more integrated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u264	We accept the second amendment tabled by Mr Amyras. It brings the deadline closer to February. Typically I say that we are accepting the Ministerial Amendment number 514 and a specialist number 19 of the Ministry of Finance with the interpretative provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u266	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, we have to make a statement, rather in the Minutes, but also in the Minister's knowledge. It is perhaps the third time that improvements are repeated, which amend articles and complement articles, Mr Hatzidakis, shortly before the vote. This creates a weakness for parliamentarians and parties to process and judge their position. I must say that, at the end of the day, the refusal and condemnation of this procedure are due to these choices, Mr Hatzidakis. If you did not bring Legislative products a minute before the vote, perhaps you could have contributed to a better debate in Parliament. We protest, Mr President, because they are coming to legislation at the last minute. This restricts the possibility for Members and parliamentary groups to judge. That's the third time that's been happening if I remember. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u268	The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment’ is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law. Their vote will be taken separately. The requests for a roll-call vote on the amendment of a general number of 512 and a special 37 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Members of the Change Movement parliamentary group and Members of the Communist Party parliamentary group, whose texts are as follows: I will not read out the list of signatory Members for the three applications, because due to the special circumstances, we believe there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the three votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u270	The House has agreed. [[CHANGING PAGE]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will be an electronic roll-call vote on the amendment, with a general number of 512 and a special 37 of the bill. We would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber at the end of the roll-call vote to vote on the remaining articles, amendments and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened. [[VOCATIONAL TRAINING]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes by colleagues have been sent to the Bureau under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Conference of Presidents of Thursday, 24 September 2020, with which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u271	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 298 Members voted. The amendment with a general number of 512 and a special number of 37: In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. On the amendment, i.e. 'NO', 140 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. So the amendment under general number 512 and a special 38 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u272	We shall now vote on the remaining articles, amendments and all, and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u273	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u274	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u275	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u277	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-15-S1-commons.u278	With the consent of this House at 22.33 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 16 October 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
