ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament Mr Vassiliou (Lakis) Vasileiadis, MP Pellis, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 1a]] B. REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a letter, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of today's up-to-date questions. They will all be discussed except for two. The first question under number 1006/4-9-2020 will not be discussed in the second cycle of MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousala, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Procedures for several groups of refugees and migrants who, indiscriminately and in summary procedures, are returned after their arrival on the Greek territory". Mr. Moussala's timely question would be answered by Mr. Panagiotis Mitatakis, who would, however, attend a ministerial meeting on the well-known theme of Moria. The Bureau apologises for the justified postponement of the debate, which was held at the last minute, by Mr Muzala. Also, it will not be discussed, after consultation, the fifth question under number 1008/7-9-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Taking problems for the nodes of the BOAK in Agia Pelagia, Achlada and Lygaria". So we will begin with the fourth question, number 1015/7-9-2020, on the second question of the Corfu MP, of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christou Aylonitis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “The birthday party of the Venetian Museum of Achilles”. Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I asked you to come to the plenary today on this issue, which is particularly topical, given that the events described in my timely question took place a few days after your visit to the Achilles area. In fact, the same day was the Prime Minister of Greece Mr Mitsotakis there. Not that this has anything to do with the event I am going to develop, but because you have known the full picture of Corfu's flagship museum, which - not least - is the third museum in terms of visitability in Greece, and that is why the Austrian Government is even interested. I say this because in two or three days' time I think there will be an event with the presence of the Austrian Government there in honor of Queen Elizabeth. I come to the point, which you know in reading my timely question. On 13-8-2020 in the middle of a pandemic and while the health protocols were in place, that is to say, the health stores will close at 12 o'clock, an event was organized in the outer space of Achilles on the occasion of Greece's well-known businessmen, which lasted until one hour at night, an event that had the characteristics of a nightclub with park, with professional singers and, at the end, about one night at night, the sky of Corfu shone with beige. Why am I saying that? This upset, annoyed, I'd say, the professionals of Corfu, who discipline health rules, but that's the glow of the problem. The greatest thing is that such events take place in an emblematic area such as this, despite the fact that the club has repeatedly stressed that there can be no events there, such as I read from a document prior to the events and directed to the administration to take place events, meetings of a religious nature, Cientology, photography of advertising of wine products, exclusion of the hall for private business meetings during the museum's operation, photographs of bridals during the museum's operation, excluding access to visitors, cinematographic films of a German television network to find a love partner, etc. Is this a state of affairs within a protected museum space to happen? My timely question, therefore, because time has passed, is this: have these events been taken into account by your Ministry and more specifically by the Central Council of New Monuments? Are they allowed to organize such events? I am not in favour of any kind of cultural events, but not of this mess - let me apologize - which has created this unpleasant image. Of course, I will give you photographs and photographs, but also copies of the reports and publications made by the newspapers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u4	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ephremidis, you know better than me that the palace of Achilles is an emblematic building, which has been described as a historically preserved monument with these surrounding gardens and a two-kilometre protection zone around the garden. From the outset, I will note that this site belongs to the ownership of the Hellenic Tourism Organization and its administration and management is conducted by the EBRD. The image of the palace as we saw it in the visit you mentioned with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis does cause grief, as both the building and the gardens and statues that devour it have extensive damage, absolute lack of maintenance and substantial abandonment. This image we are trying to overthrow through systematic and intensive work. The EBRD and the competent services of the Ministry of Culture, the Department of Conservation of Ancient and New Monuments and the Management of Modern Cultural Heritage have undertaken the restoration of the monumental complex. The project was integrated two months ago into the 2014-2020 Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship Programme, with a budget of around EUR 13 million and the tender process is already under way. For reasons of historical interest, I have to note that the corresponding NRP 2007-2013 programme included in 2011 the first phase of the work of restoring and highlighting Achilles, which was about EUR 1.160,000 in the preparation of budget studies. This phase was completed in 2016. You were government. From 2016 to July 2019, i.e. the entire period of governance SYRIZA, nothing happened at all. You had the studies, you had the funds. You didn't do anything about Achilles! The reopening took place immediately after the July 2019 elections. Mr Colleagues, it is at least hypocritical that you refer to the text of your question, that, thanks to your questions, the government mechanism and the EBRD have been mobilised to include in a funding programme. The same hypocritical is your late interest in the protection of the Achilles Museum with regard to the events that have taken place there for at least two decades. With regard to the contested event which took place on 12 August 2020, it was indeed a private meal abroad in the mussel perimeter, the request for the performance of which - the event - was submitted by the organisers to the EBRD and not to any of the relevant departments of the Ministry of Culture as they were due. They followed, that is, the fallen age. Since Achilles is a monument, they obviously had to ask for approval under the provisions of Law 3028/2002, which was not done. With regard to compliance with the health protocols you raise in your question, according to the information provided by the CEO of the EBRD, the event began at about nine o'clock at midnight and was completed at 12 o'clock and during the course of the event all EBRD rules and instructions were observed, while the disinfections were carried out half an hour before the event began. I have previously described your interest in finesse and hypocritical, and I have explained why. Already in the period 2015-2019 - I will not go to the past - a number of events had taken place in the monument. For example, over the four years -2015-2019 - some sixty events took place, including some of the ones you mentioned, such as shooting, reality, show. Among these, mostly wedding receptions were held with live music, with similar phenomena to those of the event mentioned above. Many of them were made inside Achilles and not in the garden. In 2016 a decision by the then Minister of Culture, Mr Baltas, said that wedding ceremonies and receptions are inconsistent with the nature of the monument. However, seven wedding receptions were organized after this decision. To conclude, I would like to assure you that the services of the Ministry of Culture, and of my own, are to ensure the provisions of Law 3028/2002. Already, from the day after the event, i.e. on August 14th, ETA and its administrative responsibility have been notified that the archaeological law applies to all monuments, including Achilles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u7	Madam Minister, if you had been informed correctly, you would not have answered my question like that. Because here, in the presence of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Besiropoulos, at the level of debate, I asked the government to take into account the despairful situation, the devastated form of the Museum of Achilles, and at this meeting I asked for the resignation - take note - of the administration of the EBRD appointed by the previous government. Do not think that the netting of responsibilities to me as a new Member, but also to you who are a new government, can cover the shortcomings that have been observed from a political point of view during the course of your government. To keep saying that this has happened in SYRIZA, or this has been the case by the propaganda, etc., I do not think he is convinced of the indifference shown by the government. And I'll tell you attributes: You are wrong on the part of the speaker because the EBRD mechanism was activated in the timely question to submit a technical bulletin on the last day of expiry of the deadline to join the ESRB. If this was not the case, this procedure within the Greek Parliament would have lost 13 million euros and Achilles would have been in the situation that you and the Prime Minister saw. Minister, I would like you to tell me whether you will continue to protect the palace of Achilles from such events and whether you intend to establish a specific framework for the operation of Achilles as a museum. Also, what events will you allow there, what contents of events and what will they be in exchange for? And you will have to answer from now on: only the financially imminent Greeks, the businessmen of this place, will they have the opportunity to enter Achilles and have events whether they are birthdays, marriages or any other social event? You do not answer me, I think, accurately to the question I have raised with my timely question. And I would ask you to tell me what the service has assured you, so that today you can answer me that this event which had these features I mentioned earlier ended just at 12 o'clock at midnight. Because I have to tell you that everyone knew, all those who live around Achilles, even in the city of Corfu, that these events took place by one hour at night. I would therefore ask you, in your speech, to answer specifically who replied that this was the case, namely that the health protocols were implemented, that the administration of Achilles applied them, as did the organisers of the event.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u8	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u9	First of all, Mr Papoutsis, I obviously do not belong to those who accept a netting of responsibility. That is why I told you that the Ministry of Culture was not asked under the provisions of Law 3028 as the organisers had to do. I have no intention of blaming you - I have no reason to do so - but I must tell you that if you had followed a little more systematicly, you would see that the discussions on the accession of Achilles started on 27 July 2019, twenty days, that is, after the elections, with the Ministry of Development and the ETUC. There is a very long correspondence until your question to the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Vésiropoulos, is being debated here. Your debate has become well and obviously the parliamentary procedure is always valuable and respected. However, we do not get to say that you mobilised the government mechanism with a parliamentary question when it had been mobilised since 25 July 2019. From there on - I told you, you obviously did not hear it very well - whether or not the health measures and hours in which this event took place on 13 August, the EBRD informed us and notified us of it, which is managed by the monument. As for the rules of operation, the Ministry of Culture always lays down rules of operation for monuments and museums. After all, a first decision on what events should include in the archaeological sites and museums was adopted - together with older ones, I am referring to the latter - in 2018. The events held in Achilles since October 2018 when the decision of the then Deputy Minister and Minister of Culture is made until, if you like, the July elections were not implemented in Achilles. Anyway, right now the major is the restoration of the Achilles complex. The Ministry of Culture, in response to the Prime Minister's commitment, has set as a priority the issue of the restoration and upgrading of Achilles, which is indeed the most favorite destination of thousands of visitors to Corfu, but mainly is a crucial developmental and economic size for the local society and not just. Yesterday we signed the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the EBRD with a total budget of EUR 12.950,000, resources drawn from the programme of the Ministry of Development "Competitiveness - Entrepreneurship". The objective of the Memorandum of Cooperation shall be to ensure the smooth implementation of the planned work for the restoration and promotion of the Achilles complex to be implemented in proportion to the commitments undertaken by the Contracting Parties. The common priority of the Ministry of Culture and the EBRD is to ensure the smooth operation of Achilles during the work, as it is constantly among the leading cultural destinations of Greece. Let me note that Achilles is the most important development resource that is inextricably linked to the economy of Corfu and the tourist development of the island. With the coordination of the stakeholders, with the proper planning and constant effort of the relevant departments and the civil servants of this government, the full restoration of the Achilles area with high quality standards will proceed within the planned timescales. The current government will do exactly the opposite of your own governments, who have left Achilles for five years in abandonment and destruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u10	I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003: 'Prime responsibility of the ministers', as is the case, 7-9-2020, for criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of Justice of Constantine Tsiara. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics also submits its report to the Prosecutor's request for authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Finally, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its reports to the draft laws of the Ministry of Civil Protection: (a) 'Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on cooperation in the fight against crime and in matters of public security'. (b) ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation by the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation in the field of crime control of 6 December 2001’, and (c) ‘Decision of an Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on joint control at the Nymfaia-Mkaza border corridor, concluded by an exchange of financial communications’ (Athens, November 6, 2013 and Sofia, 17 July 2014 respectively). As I said to you, the second time question, which Mr Metarakis would answer, is not going to be discussed, for the reason I said before. We move to the fourth under number 994/31-8-2020 for a top-level question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Ilias Arseni to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The government is obliged to withdraw the PPP project file of Peloponnese Waste Management PPP by slandering the country into the institutions of the European Union." Mr Nikolaos Papathanases will be answered by the Deputy Minister present. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Deputy Minister, it is something unprecedented about what has happened with the Peloponnese PPP, where you have withdrawn the request for funding, since the European Commission has invoked you for the cost of the project, which is more than twice as much projects in Bulgaria and Croatia and is related to your projections of how much waste they will go for processing, which is completely out of any logic, is inflated in common. It also told you that you have not actually examined other alternatives, you have not considered the risks, such as any such public work, or the adaptation needs of climate change. In fact, the committee denounces you that you are supporting with state money selectively - but also intergovernmentally - the Terna company 'TERNA' and also vindicates citizens who are fighting against the villages in 'NATURA 2000'. The problem is that you are withdrawing the request for funding, but at the same time you have brought as a government a plan for waste management, the National Waste Management Plan, the ECHR, which copies the model that has just been rejected by the European Commission. And really, is that how you're going to move on? What did you learn from that curse? Shouldn't you be careful? You are even asked by the committee to ensure the public interest. That is what the committee says, it speaks of overcompensation and selective relationships, at the same time as damage to the environment. We invite you to withdraw all thoughts to implement this ECHR, the project for the Peloponnese PPP and everything corresponding to all of Greece. Your plans are aimed only at strengthening the combustion contractors. That's what it turns out here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u12	The Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Papathanases has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are given the opportunity today to answer the two parts of the current question, first of all, and, secondly, perhaps to refer very quickly to where the country is. Because you say in the title that the country is being smashed, I would like to give you two figures only for the reasons that the country is breaking apart. So today, this government has inherited a situation from the previous government and I have to tell you, Mr Arseni, that the President of your party was a member of this government and that you may have environmental sensitivities, perhaps you should ask yourself why the country came after so many years of governance SYRIZA in this situation, to be twenty-four in Europe of the twenty-seven countries in recycling, to be second in Europe in the burial of waste, to still - when we received fifty-three heaps, of which twenty-one are in the Peloponnese, exactly where this project is being and is going to be carried out, and in the case of solid waste to recycle just 15% against the higher target that we should have achieved, 37%. That's what we received as government. Since your questions are important and I would like to refer to each of you separately, I would like very quickly to say that this project has been entrusted with the process of PPP projects, and here, when we talk about PPP projects, you have an idea, which is what electricity you as soon as you hear the PPP project, that is, as soon as you hear that there is the involvement of the private sector's know-how and competence, something you suffer. These partnerships are therefore subject to an integrated institutional and legal framework for the implementation of projects, while exploiting the important know-how and efficiency of the private sector, but with full public control - take care, with full public control. The PPP projects shall be approved by an Interministerial Committee after approval by the project promoters. So, very quickly - I will have the opportunity to reply to you on the first point - I would like to say that the competitive process started in December 2011. A provisional contractor was declared in July 2013 and the contract was signed in July 2018. So the awarding authority is the Peloponnese Region. For the first part of your question, therefore, regarding the construction part of the project, there is a grant from the resources of the European Regional Development Fund. Our country has submitted a request to the competent services of the European Union for approval of the project on the basis of paragraph 2 of Rule 102 of Regulation 1303. The dossier - because you mentioned - is to be reformed by the competent authorities with the support of all involved bodies, specialist consultants and the JASPERS team, which is a project support team. This is already the case. No question of review of the contract by the Court of Auditors or a review of the environmental authorisation of the project has been raised by the Committee. I say this because you referred to this. The project partnership has already been signed and you expect it to enter into force upon completion of the procedures envisaged. Now in relation to the second question: The project is registered in the Public Investment Programme, so its uninterrupted and immediate funding has been ensured. In fact, a large part of this is derived from the ERDF. The relevant public expenditure has been guaranteed. There is therefore no question, Mr Arsenis, about the financing and launching of the project. Now as to the start of the contractual work, any delays in any case do not affect the project. This project is the largest PPP project signed in the country and is expected to start very soon. The Government encourages public-private partnerships in terms of waste management, so that we can achieve our central objective, which is to manage waste in the best way, by involving the public and private sectors. Finally, we want to achieve the basic objective of Europe, which many countries have achieved, namely that of the efficient cyclical economy with respect to the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u14	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Deputy Minister, what I read to you was not my opinion. It is the European Commission's document, as it was sent to you on 15 June, and you had a short and rigorous deadline to reply by 15 August, when you withdrawn the request for funding. What the committee says personally and with my mandate in the European Parliament I have never seen them say to a Member State, about overcompensation so thick, about forged numbers and about privileged relationships with individuals. You have now referred to two topics in your answer to avoid a substantial response to the issue of recycling and PPPs. At your request, you're accusing us of having a bias against the PPPs. I'll be clear. I don't have a bias against any tools. However, the way the PPPs and therefore the PPPs rule in Greece are applied is very clear, leads to overcompensation, to an increase in debt, with guaranteed quantities of waste for all PPPs of the waste that you are promoting, multiples of the planned waste. We have also seen the experience of neighbouring Cyprus, where they pay giant fines precisely because of the guaranteed quantities. All this moves to the family and the household. Of course, this locks us in a minimum recycling future. All your government's planning for waste in the NRP is based on the fact that we are recycled, as environmental organisations are still denounced, and that it is recovered about 12%, 12.5%. So this is the percentage of materials that you're going to these plants you're building, just like the Peloponnese, which will be recovered and the rest together with the organics goes for combustion. All your design is to justify the expensive and environmentally harmful combustion plants. It has nothing to do with the public interest, nothing to do with the environment. So we really want to call on you to stop your plans for PPPs before you drive this country to pay fines and compensation to PPP contractors when it makes recycling, pay fines to the European Union when - on the basis of the future you lock us in for fifty years - we will not make recycling in practice and a huge cost to households. The only benefits are the two - three contractors of the waste. Please and I urge you to stop the country's lockdown in a dystopic future in all respects.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to submit to the Minutes of the House the answer of the General Secretariat for Public Investment and the ESDP on the relevant timely question, as well as of the contracting authority of Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Nikolaos Papathanases presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] I would like, because you referred to what is happening in Europe, to come back to the matter and to tell you why today we are last. Because while we should be around 15% to 20% in the landfill, we are currently burying 80% of our waste. So much has been delayed in running these projects. And do you know how much it is in Europe after 20% if there is an energy processing? That's down to 5%. We are, that is, the pigs, and that is what the previous government inherited, this position, and that is the fight we are fighting and we will continue to do this and we will promote much more PPPs, because we really believe that public-private partnerships are very important and work very well for the economy. You said quite clearly, we have withdrawn the file and I told you in my prototype that with the JASPERS team we are working so that we can submit the file and we are sure that the answers that will be given will be convincing. Now, to raise a point which you have raised on delays and overpriceds, I would like to say to you that the start of the project is not affected, because in fact the cash flow is not affected. I told you what would happen in an alternative. Both the start of implementation of contractual operations and any delays in their implementation are not linked to the procedures for the submission and consultation of a large request for consultation with the Commission. What we should also note is that, in the NRP part with the known delays, we have been absorbing just 170 million with contractions of waste projects since July 2019, compared with 940 million that was the original projection on this issue. Because you have an environmental concern, I tell you that there is no question of revising the environmental study and as the principle of the contract, it is the time when the acquisition of the required land will be completed. We have taken legislative initiative in order to facilitate and speed up these procedures. I would like to tell you that this government and this Prime Minister are particularly sensitive to environmental issues and we pay particular attention to and will continue to pay particular attention to green growth and the cyclical economy. After all, it is the only way to go, it is Europe's demand, society's demand, and it is the will to go into an environment that respects people as the focus of our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the next one, which we will normally go, why did the Pope come in which, in common, he stayed by car on the road, I have the honour to announce that the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport and the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Tourism and the Ministers of State tabled a draft law on 8-9-2020: "Reforming the institutional framework of the antiquities of sports operators, distinguished by the attendance of athletes., Greek Paralympic Committee (E.R.) and other provisions.’; Furthermore, the Ministers of Digital Governance, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Culture and Sport, tabled a draft law on 9-9-2020: ‘Digital Governance Code (Integration into Greek law of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 and Directive 2019/1024) - Electronic Communications Code (Integration into Greek Law of Directive (EU) 2018/1972) and other provisions’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. We are now moving on to the first with number 8641/30-7-20 a question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Accelerating the implementation of ESDP programmes following a redesign for the facilities of the Council of the European Union (EU)'. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for both flexibility and understanding and the Minister and you. Unfortunately - and on the basis of the latest figures on the progress of the economy - we have another sample of the inadequacy of government interventions. Our country in the second quarter has recorded a recession of over 15%, above the average of the European Union, which is just over 13.5%, if I am not mistaken, or 13.7%, and unfortunately we have also waited for the third quarter, which will also include all the results for the progress of the economy, especially the large tourism sector and the focus, which has been well known for too long not only the Greek political debate, but also the international press. There were decisions by the European Union, which, by our question today, we are asking to know whether you have exploited, whether the Council decisions of 8 April 2020, which also provide 100% funding for specific actions and give us the possibility of transferring funds - we were shouting too early on these issues - and, of course, give them the opportunity to make money unfettered. Money is used from the Public Investment Programme. They could, if appropriate moves had been made in time, these things could have been invaded. So we are asking you to what extent has a redesign of programmes been completed between the ESDP actions and how many and what transfers have been made between the Funds and the funds to absorb as much as possible in the context of this flexibility? These are hundreds of times the ones we have mentioned. There are flexibilities between them and they should have already been exploited. Has the Government proposed to the Commission new forward actions in this context? Has it planned to request early to adopt new programmes and actions to guide the most affected sectors in time? How soon are the inflows from the European budget expected? Will a more ambitious target be set? And what are the annual ESRB disbursement performance targets for the current and the following two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u20	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Pappa, you're in a bit of misfortune - I'm talking about the car - I hope it doesn't happen again. I come to the question a little, first of all, which I warmly thank you for. We, a few days ago, also issued a formal press release from the Ministry of Development, not on the basis of our own data, but on the basis of the official information from the European Commission, on how our country really goes in terms of absorbing the current ESRB. Raking, our ranking - as always this indicator - has nothing to do with the number of money alone, that is, the amount of millions of euros that we are absorbing and to which I shall refer, but the ranking being competitive. It's about how to absorb the rest. I mean, it's a much more reliable indicator, because if you just mention how much millions you've absorbed, it's probably that number is too small in the end if others manage and absorb a lot more. According to the official website of the European Commission, which we refer to in the press release - and which is now available to all Greek citizens and to Pappas, obviously, which could have been consulted before coming to me the question - Greece, in the last communication, has been in the eighth place with 56% of total payments - co-financing and pre-financing - since the 12th place in July 2019. In other words, as regards the total payments between the elections of 7 July 2019 and the end of July - which is the indicator - 2020, Greece, Mr Papapas, has risen from the twelfth to the eighth, namely four positions. As regards interim payments, at the same time Greece was in the thirteenth position among the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, that is, five posts were up from what was in July 2019. In July 2019, we were in position eighteen, now in position thirteen in relation to the other countries. I am tabling the press release on the European Commission's website, which mentions the relevant indicators with great success for our country, for the Government, for the Ministry of Development. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This is a measurable size, cannot be called into question, it is the official website of the European Commission. So, normally, Mr Pappa, you should come here and tell me 'Government and the Ministry of Development', which, within one year of all official indicators, has gone up too many positions'. But let's go a little on this one, because, in my opinion, SYRIZA shouldn't have asked this question today, and I am surprised that he has made it. When, Mr President, I was responsible, following the mandate of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Development - so I had in mind what SYRIZA has constantly advertised, how well Greece was doing to absorb European programmes, because during the previous period of government SYRIZA was the great success of the SYRIZA government. You understand my surprise when the first week I was at the Ministry - the first! - I received a letter from the Commissioner responsible at the time, Mr Han, who told me that for the first time in the history of the Hellenic Republic there is a risk that European funds will be lost to the European economic communities. This is because, in the part of the money committed for the management of waste during the five-year SYRIZA, nothing has happened, there has been a brick, no competition, no operational plan, no regional plan, nothing has been done at all. And the Commissioner said to me: 'If you do not run too fast, these 1.2 billion people committed to waste management, you will obviously not be able to absorb them'. Please note that, given that the next programme does not provide for money for waste management, since this technology is already considered to have been implemented in all the countries of Europe, if this money is lost, it will be charged to the Greek taxpayer. So I announce that according to national planning, both with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Development, by the end of the year we are calling for seventeen PPP projects to manage waste so that we can cover all the lost time of the five-year SYRIZA and not lose one euro by the Greek taxpayer. As regards the specific measures now in COVID, I will say them in my dentistry, so that I do not abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u22	Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u23	I was expecting some excuses, but I honestly didn't expect to be asked to say good here at the National Representation. I was going to tell you this, Minister, but you know part of our work is to discuss with organised entrepreneurship, and to be a society of problems and deadlocks that your choices have accumulated. We're not locked up at our house to watch a television station that smuggles you so that we can come in here and tell you what's going on. We know and see what happens outside the window. I would say to you that if you have to judge and criticise our term of office in relation to absorption, you should throw out the numerous communications from the competent services of the European Union, which have placed Greece in the first place of absorption and have congratulated our country. The European Union has therefore given more flexibility to channel health and small and medium-sized enterprises and the labour market and other governments have moved far faster, especially when they have made aid to enterprises, to strengthen health structures and to exceptional grants. So here, I think you're treading about others. Unfortunately, we will have - and here I would expect to hear on the occasion of our question and a word from you - very unfavourable effects on the Greek economy because of developments. And we will have them, because the Greek economy has specific structural features. I would expect you, because I imagine you know as your position, to say a word about the most famous Pissaridis report, which runs down and blames Greek entrepreneurship, 80% of Greek entrepreneurship, as non-productive - even mentions the word 'job', which has been emanated by your colleague - and say that you will do something about this situation. What are we going to say to these people? What happened? That they were the severely ill people of the Greek economy who deserve to die, so that the Greek economy could move forward in the next phase? In conclusion, I would like to say to you this: you know, the conversation about the next day that you so much like to do on television windows but also among you ministers is an indirect opportunity to get away from talking about the need to act today. Now it's the time of action or maybe it was yesterday. You didn't hear us and the results started and they came. But, instead of giving clear answers, you choose once again to baptize the fish meat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u24	Good. Be simple too, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u25	I don't know if I can be that much, Mr. President. Because my colleague accused me of not talking to him, I would like to say that he is amazed, because I have mentioned the official information from the European Commission and I am pleased that he has not questioned them. So SYRIZA accepts the obvious that Greece at the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is constantly going up to the positions of all relevant European Commission indicators in the absorption of the NRP. However, we shall now go to these COVID measures. First of all, Mr Papapas, you will allow me to tell you this: I will say good faith about why I believe that SYRIZA cannot be drawn to polls and every poll goes worse than the previous one. Because what you are saying is so obvious, that is, at a distance from reason, that the average man understands it. You blame the Mitsotakis Government for the recession in 2020. But I'm sorry, but you must have come from space with a spaceship, so you don't understand why there's a recession in 2020. Note that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u26	Look at the last quarter!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u27	Don't interrupt me. Note that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u28	Minister, to ELSTAT your complaints!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u29	Note that both the Commission and the International Monetary Fund for the second quarter of 2020, for which you raised so much dust and referred to earlier, were of the Commission, minus 20 and of the International Monetary Fund, minus 25. That is why, if you remember the International Monetary Fund, it provided for 2020 minus 12 on an annual basis. Finally, Greece went 10 units better than the International Monetary Fund. The Community was forced to revise the forecasts on the best, and while at the end of April it considered and appreciated that Greece would be the country with the biggest recession in the Eurozone in 2020 - and I would remind you that you personally, when the relevant press release had been published, have celebrated that Greece was the last country in economic growth in 2020 - now it has already revised the index and has taken us to the middle, where the last country - take note, Mr Papa - is Spain of your friend Iglesias. So when you say that for the recession in Greece it's Mitsotakis's fault, it's like saying that it's Spain's fault with Iglesias. So with those kinds of arguments, no one will believe you. That's why people turn your back. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But let's go to the numbers now, because the numbers are not questionable. I'll say two clues and then the generals for people to understand. The EMCDDA received it at a absorption of 14.8% on July 6, 2019. By the end of 2019, Mr President, we ran too much and this went up - take note - from 14.8% - that is, from the first day of the ESRB and five years of SYRIZA we had spent 14.8 - on 31 December 2019 at 29.1%. As long as we spent five years SYRIZA, we spent six months in New Democracy. We're entering 2021. We are officially putting EUR 921 million into the payment target. But the pandemic is erupting and the many measures that I shall refer to then begin to adjust the target from EUR 921 million to EUR 2,42 billion, and today I am pleased to tell you that the objective will indeed be achieved and over-represented. I'm filing the numbers for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In July 2020, Greece made a request for payment from the European authorities of EUR 1.3 billion in a single dose, the largest single payment made by the European Commission to ESDP money on the first day Greece entered the European Economic Community. And this was done on our own government. So doing us absorption lessons is too much. And a few words for people to understand and I shall close immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u30	But close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u31	I do not want more than twenty seconds, Mr President. In order for the world to understand why we have achieved this very great absorption and in 2021 the goals that will be set will be Greece now be from the first countries to absorb in Europe. We built a series of tools at the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Finance, which were financed only by the NSRF. Compensation: 1 billion ECU. European Investment Bank (EIB) — European Investment Bank (EIB) — European Investment Bank (EIB) — European Investment Bank Support for large enterprises, 80% - 20% from the NSRP. Payment of ESRB business-information interest rates. The 800 euros, which we gave in March and April to the free professionals and individual businesses from the ESRB. That is to say, we have created only for the COVID period - that is, what you are asking me - and on the basis of the new rules, which the European Commission has allowed us to have specific programmes, first of all from all the countries of Europe. Today, Mr President, the guarantee programme, which we started in the first phase with the ECU 3.5 billion, has already been exhausted, that is, all 3.5 billion have been approved and has been disbursed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u32	How many businesses?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u33	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u34	No, you won't come later. You'll be closed. We're not going to have a lecture here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u35	2.9 billion have been disbursed out of 3.5 billion. At TPIX we started from 1.3 billion, then we took it to 2 billion, now 3 billion and its absorption is 100%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u36	How many businesses?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u37	It is more than twenty-fifths of thousands of enterprises as a whole. So, Mr Pappa, if you would sum up the hundreds of seventy thousand businesses that received a refund advance, when you told us in an official press release that an advance would be paid out would be eight thousand businesses - you wrote it, in an official press release - they received an advance of seventy thousand businesses and you still haven't asked for an apology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u38	Good. You're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u39	So do your self-criticism. At last, be serious, because the country needs a competent military opposition, not like yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u40	Good. We're done. If I am in the Chair, do not say International Monetary Fund, because I am going crazy as soon as I hear that phrase!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u41	I said it against you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u42	Yeah, yeah. As far as his forecasts are concerned. Always with the good word on the lips is this International Monetary Fund! We move on to the debate of the third under number 1001/31-8-2020 on the first-round question by the Member of Parliament, Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Admission of serpents to the new Armed Forces of any origin". The present Deputy Minister of National Defence, General Alkiviadis Stefanis, will respond. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a complaint from the Armed Forces regarding the Star of the Lieutenant. As a military officer, who is also a man of beer and a Mavrokouf in armoured armoured, do not tannify the soul to the young Lieutenants who come from productive military schools of officers. These people can't wait for the sword's award to jewel their uniform. We have asked you, as a Greek Solution, the question to the officers of all three weapons - and the Mississippi Army and the Air Force and our Navy - that they should be awarded, because these people were expecting a fruitful military course to take a sword, so that there would be the so-called "military aura" in their uniform. You know, there's a saying that says "the sword of justice has no case". But here, with the sword of justice, we must also grant them the sword and the sheath, in order to feel a satisfaction and not to break their national minds in their military course. As a military officer you are, you've been decorated several times and good for yourself! So it must be in the cushion that the merchandise, which will be the sword, must be both the sword and the blue-white in a military, to show them proudly to his children and grandchildren in the next generations. The situation is degraded and you see what is happening this time at your place of origin, in Lesvos, which we, as Greek Solution, had warned. Unfortunately, we have insight - it seems - policy. I invite you to set a certain timeframe against the Lieutenants, to shine their stars, enduring heartfeltly, in order to be vindicated. You know very well that the officers are the ones who hold, as a'military unit' - which we call the sergeant - the proper functioning, discipline and organization of the camps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u44	The Undersecretary, Mr. Stefanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, thank you very much for the question. For us, for the Greek officer, the sword is a symbol of honor, a symbol of vigilance, a symbol of manhood and, of course, demonstrates his devotion to the country, democracy and principles which the Greek officers represent. I understand that your question concerns officers who come from the officers, who, after a certain period of service, move from the officer's branch to the officers' sector. Unfortunately, for a number of years, namely the period from 2000 to 2010, no action had been taken to give a sword. So we have reached the point of having a large number of our officers who have not received a sword. As the head of the Ministry of National Defence, we apologized to these people, understanding that morality is the highest point on which we should stand. What's happened right now? To date, since 2010, seven thousand eight hundred swords have been given to officers, who come from officers. Also, a second number, which must be retained, is that about ten thousand five hundred swords remain. There are currently framework contracts in progress, according to which over eleven thousand swords will be given over the next four years. So for executives, who come from Officer Schools, there is no question. Officers from the Staff Schools have the timetable that you have asked for. In the next four years, taking into account these agreements, we will have completed what we owe them, aiming, as you say, at increasing morality. The spirit of the Armed Forces is too high. We see this every moment in the air, on the land, on the sea, and we have to keep it high and we do all we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u47	Minister, you set a timetable for the remaining swords. You should speed up every process to make the ceremonies needed for the officers, who became officers after a course of many years, making this military career with dedication and faith, in order to be justified. That is where we need to speed up every process and not to tell these people that the chemistry, which has been analysed, does not meet the standards. We're too late. You know very well that for these people the narcotics, the sword and all the merchandise are an integral part of their lives, their careers, for them and for their families. In any case, we should be closer to the uniforms. This government should be closer to the Greek Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the Greek Police, the Port and the Firefighting, because people really want to feel that moral satisfaction. You know, mother's home course towards the fighters is not the right thing to do. It is not this time, but I take the opportunity to refer to fighters and warriors of the 1974 events, as we have the warrior Constantine Papatheodorou, who, while being judicially justified, is not close as Mother Ellas should. We have people who really need to be handed over and get what is required of the Army. I want you to be closer to these people. You are committed to this timetable, but we urge you as Greek Solution, Minister, to speed up all procedures for these people. In any case, if possible, send them a personal letter as a Ministry of National Defence, to tell them that you do not forget them and that you are committed to giving them that sword of their military career, so that people can feel better. There must be a lot of Whiting in the face of the soldiers, who are not as close as they should be. In closing, as a member of the great paratroopers' family I am - in the Special Forces I served - I want you to be close to the Liberation Sergeant Constantine Meligoni, who is another accident in our large paratroopers' family, so that the black pillar of the free fall - up there is Constantine Meligonis - can shield from pride. I also urge the Ministry to be closer to the Special Forces family, paratroopers and relatives of Constantine Meligoni. Price and glory to the sergeant parachute! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I take the opportunity to say this: you said to be close to the Armed Forces. The present government is very close to the Armed Forces. The Prime Minister himself has shown it in his attitude. Such measures have never been announced either for recruitment or for the strengthening of the Armed Forces and much more. So, from the start, he's shown how close he is to the Armed Forces. A second point, to which I wish to make a stand: the first time we have taken over the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence, we have clearly seen the problem. I would like to make the following statement on the Minutes: on 4 November the Minister and I saw the Retirement Associations in their coordination. On November 6, we issued an order to hold a meeting at the Ministry. The meeting was held on 2 December. I am tabling the minutes of this meeting. On 20 June, we issued an order on a number of issues. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Alkiviadis Stefanis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] In this context, you will see that one of the main issues is the award of the sword, because we recognize the issue of morality and how close we must stand to both retired and active officers from officers. We recognize what they have offered and honour them. Finally, I would like to say this: the present government honors the Armed Forces. The President-in-Office himself has referred to this too many times. The political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence honors the Armed Forces, recognises their role and supports them. The Greek people love the Armed Forces and show enormous confidence in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. In the next time questions, Mr Theodorikos will not answer, for the well-known reason I said at the beginning of the sitting, but the ladies were not in the Chamber because they were not supposed to be. At the moment, an interministerial meeting is under way on the well-known Moria issue. The State Secretary, Mr Lebanon, has come and will answer. So we begin with this group's first question, number 1005/9-9-2020, in the first cycle of MP B3 South Athens, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotio to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The consequences of the lack of diagnostic Covid19 on the staff of the municipalities for the dispersion of the virus". Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u51	Minister, the question really has this title, but I cannot at this moment, with what is happening in Moria - Mr Theodorikos has obviously sent you in his place, because he is at the meeting - not to say that my question is directly linked to the total horror of the armoring of closed and open structures throughout the country today, which is causing from a huge problem to the municipalities, such as homes, children's protection, the structures of minors, but also the inconsistent tragedy of the destruction of the Moria Cyber. A year ago you've filled us with announcements about this strange story that you're going to dismantle them, that you're going to do closed structures. You received five and a half thousand of us fourteen months ago, you reached them twenty - one thousand, and today there are thirteen thousand in the streets. So, Minister, things have gone wrong now. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] That is why I say: The staff of the municipalities are currently in direct contact with all citizens, whatever their position they are in. So these people have to do regular diagnostic tests, if you want, all of them, and often, precisely because today they are restarting everything, nurseries, nursing homes, etc. In relevant requests from the municipalities in Civil Protection, EGEY and the Ministry of Health you declare incapable of carrying out the tests, due to a lack of workshops and a limited number of available tests leading to prioritisation, which does not include the municipalities. So, what are the municipalities supposed to do? Go to the private market, pay them out of their pocket? The CEDEFOP, the Pan-Hellenic WTO-TA Federation, tells you this. You are asked for money, permanent staff, ongoing checks, diagnostic tests for all and coordination of ministries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Ministry of Interior in the well-known state of the government 'we do not give any money' - and I do not know what to do with it - gave about EUR 75 million to strengthen the municipalities for the actions of the krone. You were asked for two CFPs. For the Greek people to understand, all municipalities and CEDEFOP asked for 220 million. For when do you keep the money we have left to you and where does the European Union give you? You have a serious problem with a lack of cleaners. You are all told by the municipalities: 'We do not have to implement the health protocols of continuous cleaning'. What about that protection measure, the only one, the mask? Minister, tell me about the 6.5m euros you give for the mask contest, how many masks do they involve? Are there going to be masks for the kids on the 14th? I say that the lack of coordination of the non-existent state of staff as it has now proved, the gypsy policy, not to give money and'seeing and doing' leads to tragic achievements. The Municipality of Markopoulos closed on August 31st and opens - I learned - today. Cases were reported in nurseries, deaths and cases in nursing homes. Minister, the District Chief of Attica, a child of the inflatable and flesh from your flesh, namely the New Democracy, raised the major problem of lack of staff. He denounced the Ministry of Interior that he did not respond to his calls for recruitment of permanent staff, but did four months of recruitment, when there are a thousand empty organic posts, the ones we managed to leave on the ratio of one to one. Well, I ask you: First, what do you intend to do in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Civil Protection to include EGE the personnel of municipalities in priority and free diagnostic tests? Secondly, will the Ministry of Interior finally cover the entire expenditure for all municipalities by a special grant at its disposal for the activities of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. The Minister for the Interior will answer Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Lebanon, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs. Fotio, indeed today is a very unpleasant day with the events that took place in Moria with fire. I think it is not at the moment to criticise what has been done and on your own government on the issue of Moria with regard to some of the images that had been made under your own rule and had been diverse worldwide about the living conditions of the people who lived there. So, making such a criticism, I think it is not important at this time. The important thing is - apart from exploring the causes that led to the current fire and which will be investigated - to see how immediate measures are taken to resolve the problem. Because you have referred more generally to the question of supporting the municipalities from the Ministry of the Interior because of the pandemic, let me tell you three things. Firstly, the Ministry of Interior already from the first legislative initiatives of the Government took specific measures to help the municipalities in cooperation with the CEDEFOP. It extended for staff, since you mentioned it, the possibility of concluding contracts instead of two months, which is the fixed procedure for exceptional and unforeseen needs in four months. In fact, this provision shall apply until 13 September. We will also consider in a forthcoming bill, if necessary, a change in it, so that the conventions can be renewed on substance and de facto, take the same staff again because the restriction of 'a contract per person' has been lifted in this category to support the municipalities. This was a great success of the enlarged "Help at Home" programme, which basically supported the time we lived at home, the quarantine period, the most vulnerable groups. As far as funding is concerned, I should like to say the following. Once the crisis started and we entered the main and most important phase, in the period before the lockdown, the Ministry of Interior immediately gave EUR 10 million to all the municipalities in the country to cover the first costs. In addition to a small amount of 1,2-1,3 million, which was given even for foods of stray animals, special exceptional grants were given to all municipalities which have faced a major problem because of the pandemic. For example, I mention the Municipality of Mykis, the Municipality of Xanthi, the Municipality of Voios and the Municipality of Iasmos. They were granted exceptionally with a significant amount to cover emergencies. In May we gave another 75 million horizontally across all municipalities on the basis of the proportion of the CAP. You have reiterated a request which the CEDEFOP, some of the CEDEFOP's CEDEFOP's words, but which is a retraining dimension because all municipalities do not have the same burden. Another charge has a mountainous municipality due to the krone and another charge has a municipality located in the most tourist areas in the country. We ask and keep track of the evidence from the Observatory. At the moment that we are talking about the vast majority of the municipalities, of the extraordinary grants they have received, they do not have equal losses. So we monitor the impact of the krone on the revenues of the municipalities, we are in cooperation with the General Accounting Office of the State, and whenever we need to proceed on the basis of real elements in the strengthening of the municipalities, as we have said on several occasions in the House. Now about the substance of your question and about the tests to be carried out on municipal officials, first of all, we need to make it clear that our government has a high sense of responsibility towards all Greek citizens and, of course, for civil servants and especially local government officials. Indeed, some local government officials, a large number of them, are in contact with the world because of their position either they are the educational staff you mentioned, whether they are employees of cleanliness, or they are employees in offices in contact with the citizens. So what must first be done - and it is very important - is that all the health protocols laid down by the EGE should be maintained and complied with without delay. You are now putting the subject of tests. The number of tests we can do, and on a daily basis and constantly, is finite. We can't do an infinite test. We'd like to, we'd all like to run a coronary test. It is an important tool, but it is not the absolute tool, because I can do the test today and then two or four days later to get in touch with case and expose myself to the coronary, so I risk getting sick. Since, therefore, the number of tests is finite, there is a prioritization in cooperation with the EGE, the Civil Protection and the Ministry of Health. The vulnerable groups such as workers in nursing homes, as you mentioned, or the vulnerable groups, which are easier to take seriously from the coronary, for example, workers in prisons and in enclosed areas, are being affected. There is prioritization. From there on, I stress two things: firstly, that each municipality has the opportunity in the context of its self-sufficiency to publish and proceed with tests either in cooperation with a public structure, or in cooperation with a private structure. And secondly, the Ministry of Interior, in particular the costs related exclusively to the Coronovirus, regularly asks for information to cover these exceptional costs which were obviously not calculated in the budget of the municipalities for 2020 adopted at the end of 2019, when the pandemic was still unknown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs. Fotio, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I realized that we left you in Moria with five and a half thousand people, while you reached twenty thousand - for anyone who sees above all this - and thirteen and fifty thousand because of your policy of caging and because you didn't want to promote them in the hinterland, why did you spend the entire time mocking your own municipalities that we should not take any immigrants anymore? Is that what you are telling me today seriously in view of this tragedy? In any case, you have not disputed that you have given 75 million, that is, what I said, while the municipalities and the CCT are asking you for 220. You just told me you didn't give them in proportion. What can I tell you now? Is that what you said? I know that three months have passed since the end of the lockdown. You have wasted these three months with the government's and the Prime Minister's own beliefs. The first two months were spent in order to politically fruitize the great achievement of the Greek people to keep the rate of cases and victims low from the first wave of pandemic. June, Mr Levanne, is characterized by the impotence of convincing - look at all the news reports - that we are returning to normality. What you did was criminal. It was the signal you've received. This was to be inspired by the Greek people, that regularity, Mitsotakis, the new Moses, is coming! His polls gave the illusion of the absolute sovereign of political game, the friendly media urged you to vote in the autumn to eliminate SYRIZA, the people were getting contradictory messages every day, the government set different protocols for the country's gates, set another number for the completeness of ships, did nothing in the public transport, where the world was confronted with metro and buses, etc. And when the return to normality was crushed by the deepest and earlier return of the coronary, we returned to individual responsibility. Good. But we've wasted valuable time. And what happened? This has proved to be your responsibility, Mr Minister. Firstly, there is no final state because in your case you had to coordinate three ministries in good time: yours, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour. Why? Because the structures in the nursing homes are three reasons. They are the public, they are the privates who are under your supervision and your control, i.e. the municipalities and the first and second degrees of local government, and the private homes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As if not all of this were enough, yesterday the representative of the Ministry of Health was indulging because we did not have - it says - no death in a public nursing home, while we had twenty-three deaths in the private home. Are these other deaths of another quality? What are you doing right now? So you had to have put out common protocols for all structures, you had to coordinate. We were announced a week ago by the State Secretary for Labour that you will now coordinate. Controls! That means an ending state. We coordinate the ministries. We're making common protocols. We're doing checks. Nothing! In the nursing homes right now when the coronary enters, whether private or public, it means death. We're there. Can I get child protection? Can I get the kindergartens and the CIDs for what you've done? Let me testify to you - and I will testify - what is happening right now in all the municipalities, where they have cases at the nurseries? How did you open them up to baby stations? Again! Now clamps at the three-municipalities inflatable stations. The Ministry of Labour right now, instead of pulling out and controlling all structures, whether they are child protection or anything, what did he do? He left for 90 million sixty-five thousand children outside the CFP, the creative employment centers, which parents asked to do, should they also have a protected environment there. Why did you do that? So you can tell us later that you gave 100 million to the full-day school. Equal boat, equal waters! Firstly, you did not create a single control mechanism for all these structures. Secondly, you did not hire the public nursing homes, but you spilled a lot of crocodile tears for the hard workers who were, of course, exhausted because they were without staff. You have less staff than we have delivered to you. You have less staff in public structures than we have given you and you have not given a single euro of the special allowance you have given doctors and nurses. Thirdly, you decided to give the "stagonometer" money to every public and municipal structure to push everything into the private sector. Is it a story right now to be sawing the private sector when we have huge needs? And, of course, no recruitment of permanent and stable skilled personnel, but four-month recruitments, which Mr Patulis also says to us. Mr President, I shall end. Thanks for the abuse you have allowed me to do in time. The state and you, especially the Ministry of Interior, are in charge of fighting the pandemic. Therefore, you must now make available to local government to fight on the front line against the virus, money, personnel, specialist health professionals, protection. It is not the time, with a cover for the autonomy of local government, to say in essence 'let her head cut'. I ask you again and answer me in particular. Will you increase the TA I and II TA II grant allocation for Coronary Actions? Will you send more money immediately? Are you going to plan staff recruitment in collaboration with them? Will you cover all OTA personnel and beneficiaries of the nursing homes with diagnostic tests and, in general, will you play your role at this critical juncture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Lebanese will answer his second language for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u57	To begin at the end, Mrs Fotio, I told you before that the nursing homes, for example, are the priority of the EGE and the Civil Protection Committee to carry out a test for the coronary. Secondly, for your funding, I have analysed them - and in greater detail - and the way in which we have given money and how we operate and how we go and how close cooperation we are with the CEDEFOP. Where there are real needs, in particular as regards the exceptional costs of COVID, they are covered at 100% by the Ministry of Interior. 100%! Any municipality making extra expenses due to the pandemic, which may be about supplying masks, can be about supplying health material, antiseptics to schools or anything, has been covered at 100%. Speaking of which, you mentioned the masks in your protology, we'd make it clear. The government gave EUR 6.2 million for masks. There are numbers. The competition was completed by the CEDEFOP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u58	How many?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u59	It's about 1 euro the average price of the mask. So we're talking about six million masks for about a million and a half students.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u60	At last, we learned that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u61	I'm sure you'd give more, but you didn't have time. I don't understand. For the first time we have given money in cooperation with the CEDEFOP, there has been a competition, approved by the Court of Auditors, despite some - very elegant - reservations made by self-government officials to carry out the tender. He went through the control room. At the moment that the President of the CEDEFOP, Mr Papastergiou, is speaking, he coordinates a huge task of sharing all the masks in all the municipalities of the country. We cover all pupils of primary and secondary education. We cover all the pupils of private schools and cover all the teachers. Be assured that by following the development of the pandemic, if necessary, we will provide second funding if additional masks are needed. In conclusion, I have one thing to say, because you referred to communication management, to some "Moses' period" and everything. The government at the first moment said nothing would happen without the cooperation of the world. And the amazing result we have achieved in the first phase of the pandemic is also due to the involvement and compliance with the measures announced in cooperation with the experts. So I would say that we all have to be very careful when it comes to communication tricks. Everyone, including the Prime Minister, in his regular lectures to the Greek people referred to the world's involvement in keeping and success. It's not about government, it's about success. It is a matter of involving the entire Greek people. In any case, we at 12 o'clock at midnight did not hold a meeting asking what time the planes will fly in the morning and you are talking about a communication crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. We're moving on to the next question. It is the second under number 991/20-8-2020 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Except for creative employment centres, CSR, and children's stations of over sixty-five thousand children". Mrs. Liikali, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u63	Good morning, Mr. President, Minister. I cannot resist, given the reference made before colleagues, to comment today, Mr President, which is a shocking day for Greece. We did not get what we had, but another very big issue was added for the country, which will also have further consequences for Europe and the world. We were talking about it, no one was listening to us, and neither was the previous government, who has no right now to'swing the finger'. He has no right to "swing the finger" and talk about numbers in a Moria that countryed two thousand people and reached twenty-five. Nor was the current government, of course, listening to how it managed the way it managed. We talked about it from September 2019 and again in February 2020, but no one listened to us. So leave the cockfighting for the sight. Thirteen thousand people are out of the area still burning, with scattered coronary dozens of cases, unknown to which points they are. That's the point. Leave communications now. We heard it, we had a fight again. For this. And so the world moves the head and the Greek people and the citizens say 'My youth that you showed me to become someone else'. But you haven't become both. Today, therefore, Greece and Parliament and all the political parties are being called upon to stop these knots, to lift the sleeves, to back off, to get out of the stall where we are and to get the cart out of the mud in which it seems to be stuck both at the level of pandemic and at the level of large open national issues, but also in what emerged from Moria. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. I will soon develop the question to the Minister. Minister, social policy with EUR 97 million for the CIDs and CIDs, to accommodate twice the number of applications compared to the previous year - a hundred thirty-three thousand, seventy-six applications this year, compared with sixty-six thousand last year - is a large number. With the same budget, no matter how craftsman you are, you can't do it, and while you're making things better, and you're trying to help both self-government and municipalities. We see the valuable effort you are making, Minister, and we recognize it. But it's not enough. It's like you want to sew a ten-point cloth. Is it possible? God be, it can't be. So, for CIDs and CIDs, AFDs. Your colleague, Mrs Michaelidou, answered Mr Mulkiotis last week for nursery schools. I want to confirm the title of the question. I'm not asking you about nursery stations. Explain from the beginning. Don't answer me for baby-sitters. I want you to answer for the CAD and ASA. You left sixty-seven thousand people outside. They're sixty-seven thousand families. It's a way of life. The CDIs are employment, i.e. the social state in simple terms, where the children of those who do not have a fund and do not have a money in the band, to work creatively this afternoon to open the horizons, to socialize the children, to integrate them into society. What are we going to do with all of them? Furthermore, Minister, I was very concerned about the fact that civil servants of the CSR began to be made redundant, according to complaints. Before you finally speak - I am waiting today for you to speak at the outset - tell us what is going on with the CSR and CSR, not with the nurseries, how you will regulate the issue, if you have an additional budget and what you will do with the remaining sixty-five thousand applications left in the drawer and your social policy, of course, along with those that you will definitely draw it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mrs. Liikali. The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I won't tell you about the kindergartens. At the children's stations, in fact, all the applications that had been in full file took voucher for the new year that began a few days ago. You raised a topic on ASAs and ASAs. It is unnecessary to analyse and I think we will all agree on the important role they play in this House, especially for families with lower incomes. Indeed, this year applications for the CSFs have increased to a large number, which, as one point, the budget for the invitation has not been able to predict. That is, we had a hundred and twenty - seven thousand applications last year and seventy - four thousand applications last year. So, we're talking about an increase of more than 40%. Of the hundred twenty - seven thousand applications, the hundred ten thousand had a complete file and finally sixty thousand vouches were given. So, there are about fifty thousand parents who had a complete file, but they did not get voucher. It reminds me of the pan-Hellenic system. The bases were increased this year, in fact, because the demand was much higher. In our piece, about the Interior Ministry, what do we intend to do? In the bill that is the ratification of the PPP, which is being discussed in committee and Friday, if I'm not mistaken, it comes to plenary, there are Article 47 which gives two things: Firstly, it reiterates the provision, which has always been implemented lately, which says that it can be covered by revenue and the budget of the municipalities, which many municipalities have used to increase, beyond central funding, by their own funding, the number of children entitled to be in municipal CDIs. Secondly, because the financial situation has exhausted the other sources of funding we have sought, we are enabling the programme to be financed from the special programme for the strengthening of the municipalities of the Ministry of the Interior, which has been financed by the Public Investment Programme. There, as Mr Theodorikos, the Minister for the Interior, announced earlier, will be given additional support to the amount of EUR 10 million for municipal CDIs, in order for more children to get a coupon, to join the structures, but mainly in the midst of the pandemic, to renew the many - most - most - contracts, if not all - of which many contractors are many years with project contracts. It is a paradox that we have discussed many times about public contractors. So, with this action, the Ministry of the Interior - good of things Monday - Tuesday will take the law - immediately, in cooperation with and with the CEDEFOP, we will ask that we see which municipalities have funding needs in the context of the amount which I have previously announced, to be strengthened, to amend the budget immediately, to continue the programme and, at the same time, to renew the contracts of workers so that none of them outside the labour force is present in the midst of a pandemic. It is important that, if it has not already been submitted, the retroactiveness of the provision comes from 1 September, from the beginning of the school year and from dates when it began, so that cases that have already been renewed may also be covered by contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs. Liikali, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u67	Mr Minister, if I understood well from the accounts you told us, 10 million euros is the extra subsidy. If, of course, the 10 million put them next to the 97 million applications, with which the sixty-seven thousand applications are met, it means that the 10 million, which you are now giving is too much to meet the other so many applications. So the bill again doesn't come out. The cloth raised it a little, you're still not doing it to put the applications all underneath. Look, it's an honorable 10 million. That's not enough. It's not possible to solve the problem. We now have a social policy issue. I won't teach you that, Mr. Levanie. You have a long way to know exactly what social policy means, and of course, I imagine that you are not comfortable telling you that your government's election commitment was also about CIDs and CIDs. We will not now fight for the titles of the election programmes. We're mature people, at least us. However, as far as the issue of CIDs and CIDs is concerned, it is a social issue that you should see in the local dimension of this from now on. I mean, all those kids that stay outside, the rest of the forty thousand applications that won't be satisfied, what will become of them. When income is insufficient, in pandemic conditions, with many unemployed, semi-employed, etc., what will become of these children and these families? Has there been a welfare government and a care to have another measure, an alternative policy other than the 10 million grant? As far as my constituency is concerned, I should like to tell you that both the Municipality of Larissa and the Municipality of Farsalon are already in trouble, that is, you will find them in front of a request to be satisfied, and other municipalities who come slowly will come to your company. And can I tell you something? You put a headache on your head again. How are you going to choose them? You know, so far, they're already the ones who have spoken out loud and that they're over thirty-five. What are you gonna do with the others? How will you command them? How are you going to choose which municipality you're going to leave and who you're going to put? That's the one. The second, Mr Minister, is for the contractors you mentioned, and for those who serve in this area and the structures in question. Many municipalities, although there is the possibility - workers say - of extending thirty days according to the law - is not an irregularity - of their contracts, many municipalities rushed to resolve the contracts and there is no solution for this staff. So it's not just the social part and applications, it's what you're going to do with these workers. There's a piece of unemployed people who are being created right now and you see it coming to you. What are you gonna do with that? And of course, the question is how you provide for these people who are the result of a social policy of your own government. Finally, I would like to ask - that was the second thing I asked and I waited for your answer - and this is a great relief to you. I remind you that there was when the CEDE, the Ministry of Interior, worked with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, collaborated in the school year 2014-15. And then almost 100% of applications were covered in a second division. In fact, I watched the second division, and it has a very interesting way of saying it. Minister, what is going on in this direction? Has something happened to this part? And does your government intend to see alternatives in the end to satisfy all CSR and CSR requests? Now I am talking about September when the year begins, starting to plan each Greek family, so that you too can be consistent in the fact that the New Democracy Government meets all the requests of every interested person with the slogan "no child outside the CSR and outside the CSR.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u69	I must say, for historical reasons, that, because I had dealt with the issue and, in the pre-elections, that the commitment was for no child outside the child station. You as a Change Movement - Mr. Muliciotis did so too - put both the CID and the AID in. So, in substance, EUR 97 million was the last year's programme. A number of applications had been covered. And last year there were applications that had not been accepted, although the file was complete, as was before. There was an increase this year and I'll give you - if you have kindness and patience - two numbers. Private structures of the CSR over a year went from 465 to 1,043, or more than 100% increase. Municipal structures from 424 went to 690. So you see there was also an increase in the structures that were created. As far as the EUR 10 million is concerned, it is likely that the amount will be a little higher depending on the needs and demands that will come. What are we covering? There will be a number of extra vouchers involved in those structures. The second thing to be done is that municipalities will be able to renew their staff, contracts and continue to do their job in terms of children's creative employment. And that is important, because - before a reference was made by Mrs Fotou - the government is strengthening public centres of creative employment and private employment, and I cannot understand the attack on private CDIs, when they were normally financed in advance and I had not seen any lifting of the eligibility of this expenditure to the private sector. So with this amount in cooperation with the CEDEFOP as soon as the provision is passed, we will see the needs of the municipalities. Obviously, if the municipality of Larissa and the municipality of Farsalon and any other municipality of either Larissa or all of Greece are needed, there will be the corresponding welfare. I would like to point out that it is very, very important that we also extend for the current cycle of the 2020-21 programme the possibility for municipalities to further increase the number and amount of funding from their own resources. There are the municipalities who have one even during the pandemic period to do so - many have done so in 20019 - to increase the amount accordingly in order to increase more and the number of beneficiaries of the programme so that more children can participate. This, however, in any case - next time is a debate - requires a serious study and a serious guarantee of funding, because it seems that the institution of the CFP has begun and increased interest, particularly through a pandemic. Perhaps the pandemic also contributed to increasing the number of applications, but also to the people who wanted to integrate children into a CSR programme. We will also look at the new financial instruments that will exist, see how we can obtain more funding for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Let's go to the next one. It is the third, with number 1018/7-9-2020, a top-circuit question by MP B2' Western Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: ‘Security regime for appointed municipal officials by the AACC notice 3K/2018’. Mr Arseni, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary, we had discussed the 3K issue and the problems that arise some time ago. And then we had focused enough on the problem of the permanentisation of employees hired by 3K/2018. You said there was a circular coming out that solves the issue. The circular has come out, but unfortunately the whole thing has not been solved and it is even more complicated - I dare say - the things. The circular says that in fact the people who are currently working for the moment a couple of years on the basis of the provisional tables are permanently perpetuated. However, it suddenly puts in black papers stressing that this will be done once the evaluation is completed. And so we have a strange thing where, while it is compulsory for the public to complete the evaluation of the worker during the two years, the worker becomes hostage - and the two years have expired - and this permanentisation, which is contrary to the public service code, has not yet come to an end, precisely because the State has not completed the evaluation it has carried out. There are also terrible problems with regard to their permanentisation and the remedial tables. For example, in the provisional tables, a citizen was chosen as a guide to a municipality. It was found in the final engineers in another municipality and another district to be precise. How will this man be assessed? When will it be permanentised when he made two years as a worker in a particular municipality, in a category and specialty, and changed him category and specialty and municipality in the final tables? When will this man be permanentized and how is the public service being violated? If you want to solve this problem, you can simply abolish the word "specificity" in law and keep the word "category", so that there are no such complications. Also, on the subject of the seven-year period, you mentioned that these people are exceptionally obliged not to have mobility for seven years and you said that you wanted to protect mountain and island municipalities. But, Mr. Undersecretary, any movement for seven years is already forbidden in these municipalities. So it is not possible for this exception from the budget code to be made for this reason. Also on mobility issues, if there is less than 65% of a municipality's establishment plan, mobility is prohibited anyway. So this is covered in terms of this absurdity that exists over the seven years, if applicable, so that the municipalities do not empty out of critical positions. I would like to inform you that, as this is manifestly illegal, the trade unions, such as the 'World Response', are preparing an extrajudicial to what I was informed of the legal consequences of applying this provision. I'm closing up with the 3K line thing. There is still no notice of the two thousand posts you have announced. You said that the problem was in the ADP and that it has blocked the most project. The information we receive informally is that the institutions do not allow it. Please make it very clear why the 3K queue does not come out and eventually when, with what timeframe it will unblock and come out. It is two thousand jobs, mainly in cleanliness, and we know how critical it is in dealing with the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Theodoros Lebanon for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u73	Dear Mr Arsenis, the truth is that every Greek citizen has the right to appeal to the courts of the country if he considers that his right is affected. The government has always said that it respects the decisions of justice if they exist. So either a single worker or a union of workers considers that it has been affected since the seven years since it has every right to resort, if it considers it right, to find its right and to take up justice in this regard. However, these particular employees in the competition they had claimed and the state accepted it to cover the permanent and lasting needs of the municipalities. It's not just the piece of the clerk, it's the part of the city. So the municipality is getting employees who want to keep them working to do the work, especially in the field of cleanliness and JHA. I would say to you that mobility in the years that have been implemented has created a shift, whether it relates to mountain or island municipalities to urban municipalities. For example, from a municipality located thirty - forty kilometers from the prefecture’s headquarters, an employee living at the prefecture may want to be transferred to this municipality, so that she does not have the daily shift to work at any cost she has. And 65% is a safety net that we put on, we increased it, so that the municipalities are not completely empty and, in particular, the smaller municipalities. Indeed, we have specifically laid down the part of technical services and a special provision for the assent of the administrative bodies, i.e. the mayors. So saying that an employee will remain in a position where he has been appointed by an increased molecularisation of experience in order to distinguish him from the other citizen who did not serve in the past seven years in local government and to tell him to serve seven years, the government considers that it is at least reasonable. And it's reasonable because the needs of the municipalities are great and why they need staff. It is not possible for a person who is appointed to leave in two years by switching. And to make something clear: no one, but no one was appointed to a position that nobody chose, no one. And the cleaning worker appointed in the "a" municipality, the same man had put in a lower order of priority, preference - yes, he had - another place in another municipality and possibly another speciality. No one was forced to go somewhere he hadn't chosen. You know that, and we have discussed it, that all this inconvenience with the provisional tables was the result of objections from other candidates for wrong, for example, the calculation of a criterion, of some moleculosis. So the permanent needs of the municipalities must be met with a staff. This staff is what went to 3K at the request of the municipalities. We cannot approve five posts, take five employees and then two years to leave him, for example. To close, especially on the issue of the two years we discussed the case of the circular at the end of July. The circular actually came out one or two days later, as we said in our debate at the time. The provisions of the Financial Code as they apply are now respected. Specifically for the 3K employees, they also have an additional ‘private’ that counts from the recruitment day, regardless of the organisation. That is, the person who has changed, the two years are counting from the first day that he was hired, regardless of whether he changed an institution, which is not the case with the other civil servants. And it is important, especially in the field of transfers, to come back a little bit, that a number of important social or real criteria have been introduced, if you want, where the seven-year limit is broken, whether it is a question of health or a question of co-responsibility. Therefore, you see that there is a mood for people who really need to be helped but, it is necessary that the municipalities with the staff they have taken should also function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, it's not completely like that. These people participated in a competition that did not include seven years. In other words, they knew that for two years they might be found in any municipality, but the state then came by your own law, after having worked for two years, to tell them "you can't go anywhere else, you don't have the right to mobility by civil servants". So we're talking about a competition that takes place on certain terms and a reality that changes with a law of your own without any arguments. Because, to be honest, you have again reiterated to support it, the mountain and island municipalities when it comes to them in the seven-year period. So there's no need for any special provision for them. Now you haven't answered the 3K line at all, and I really don't understand why. Now, in the middle of this pandemic, amidst this health bomb, which we know how cleanliness and lack of cleanliness in municipalities and elsewhere are causing a major obstacle to the treatment of the coronary, you cannot tell us where this notice goes about the recruitment of two thousand people. You have not answered the question of simulation. Here have invented new tables that are corrigendums, which do not exist in any of your circulars, they do not exist in the law, they are not mentioned. Temporary and final shall be reported. Now we have a third charge, the corrigendum. No one in the municipalities knows how to handle this issue, how to handle the corrigendum. Nor will you commit to correcting it? Also, report that they were found on the basis of their selection in different locations. And yet, based on SAP tables, their molecules were in some position. In final and corrective cases, there are cases where you threw them in the last place of their choice, although they themselves had the molecules to be in the first place of their choice. This, in my opinion, is also in breach of the AACC. You have not responded to us, however, how a worker who has worked for two years in a position in the same category and in a specific speciality will be evaluated and then transferred after two years to another municipality, another position and another category. Who's gonna assess him for that two-year period? When will it be permanent? When the two-year-old and the new position is over? Let us now have a whole debate in a few municipalities that should be done if we do, after 2021, that is to say, to be evaluated in 2020 as well. These people will be permanentized as you have written your circular instead of the two years in four years. There's no beginning and no end to this story. I urge you to commit yourself to the self-evident clarifications and to withdraw the seven-year period which is unsatisfactory, is not justified and will also fall into the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. When he goes to the courts, we will see it, when we resort to it, we will see whether he will fall and how he will fall into the courts. I cannot understand and say again: you are saying the argument that island municipalities already have a limitation. They have a restriction when they get a specific molecules for a specific position, no general restriction applies. There is no mobility, for example, in island municipalities, horizontal. So I repeat that no one, but no one, has been appointed to a post that has not been chosen. So let me say the example of the pan-Hellenics. It's to have done my computer, to pass to a school, I have declared ten schools, and because the bases changed, the bases went up, the bases fell, instead of being in the alpha school I was in the beta school. It's my choice, no one forced me to go. No one forced me to go to a place I hadn't declared. And you said that all the municipalities - all of them? - They don't know how to handle this? First of all, let us make it clear that even an assessment has not been made, when the time of the permanentisation comes, this is done retrospectively since the actual service time has been completed and the service time, the two-year trial period, is valid as a whole. The Ministry is in constant cooperation with the local authorities, when they have questions, questions, either written or oral, to get the answers immediately, but I do not think there is a huge chaos, as you mentioned, in the management of simulation. And always the government, as we discussed next time, is trying to make it easier for people, and that is why we have gone through the different treatment of two years with regard to 3K workers. So everything that comes is looking at it and we are taking care of it. The government will insist and insist on the seven years. It considers it fair, reasonable and is in the interests of the public interest, it is for the benefit of the services of the municipalities, it is for the benefit of the decision taken by the municipalities to strengthen them with the staff involved. You have also seen it in the adoption of the permanent recruitment we made for 2020. We have strengthened municipalities, we have strengthened too much and small municipalities with specialised staff, within the framework of the budgetary constraints that exist. We're close to the municipalities. We approve, after consideration, requests for seasonal staff. So the philosophy of the government is that, in particular, these workers, who are doing an important job in public health, and especially in the midst of the pandemic, must remain a longer period in these services, which they themselves have chosen and are serving for these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Have a good day to both of you. The second question will now be discussed under number 1003/1-9-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of 'The problem of the absorption of winestuffs'. Mr. Kegeroglu, good morning, you have two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact that this year for the absorption of wine production would have been problematic, the producers and their organizations pointed out this very early, and the Ministry had these messages, which is why it also decided to proceed with the activation of the relevant 'Crisis Distillation' programme, but of course also other actions. The question today, which time has gone on, is that production is not naturally absorbed and there are problems. Private companies, regardless of whether they were part of the "Crisis Distance" programme, raise hands and answer to the producer, with two broad lines, are "Well, let's see." Without prices, without guaranteeing the producer's income and it is problematic. I would point out that the problem arises from the fact that there is no competition in the sense that cooperative organisations do not have the economic power to absorb wine production at decent prices. Your decision to "crisis distillation" has not ensured that this year will be used. Of course, it helps to dismantle storage sites from previous years, but not from the absorption of this year's production, and there was no satisfaction with the request for interest-free funding. So what we are asking today is whether you have the policy to take initiatives so that, in addition to the decongestion of the storage areas that have already been achieved, there is a absorption of this year's production and even decent prices. The second, which is specific, is with what specific tools will you do that? Are you prepared to link - which you should have done from the outset - the 'Crisis distillation' programme with the payment of advances to businesses, to the private and cooperatives that have joined the programme, but to the interconnection of the amount they absorb, to have paid progressively on the basis of the quantities absorbed and, of course, in no case to be involved with other undertakings or cooperatives, to be incompatible with this objective? In addition, for all enterprises which have not been part of the crisis distillation programme, is there any prospect of financing them directly so that they can absorb production? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Mavroudis Voridis. Mr. Voridis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you know that the government has shown its interest in supporting this sector and you know that there have been two measures, which have worked quite satisfactorily, and the 'green harvest' measure, which absorbed about EUR 1.2 million, for the support of winegrowers and the 'crisis distillation' measure, which reached a level of around EUR 20 million for the support of wine growers. The measure of ‘crisis distillation’ was aimed precisely at indisposed stocks of wine that remained in the hands of the wine producers due to the disturbance in demand, mainly due to the closure of the focus, to remove these quantities from the market and to support wine production on the other hand. This measure has been achieved to a considerable extent. About thirty thousand tonnes are the ones who have been abducted and has therefore created a balance. What is happening now in this year's harvest: we are watching the situation very carefully, we are monitoring it throughout Greece and we are working with cooperative organisations, we have full and clear information about what is happening. I must inform you that the image is not uniform in all regions. There are areas where prices are going extremely well, there are areas where prices are going extremely well, and there are fewer areas, which seem to be having difficulties. So we are monitoring the situation and I think that at this stage it is extremely premature and would be bad, and it would also be a measure that would actually create distortions in the way it works in the market to answer to you how we are going to act. We will expect to actively monitor what is currently happening in this production and in this market, and we will take decisions after things have been worked out and completed. Through the market mechanisms we will see what is required if something needs to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u83	It would be interesting to know the information about the green harvest, because of course the primary question has not yet been answered: "Why so great differences in compensation according to variety" and to see what production was produced at the early cutting point, based on this decision in this programme, for example the Heraklion Prefecture or Crete. It would be interesting. The protests of wine growers and winegrowers to differentiate your compensation price are well known. The second basic point is to see all those who joined, whether businesses or cooperative organisations, in the crisis distillation if they are actually absorbing the quantities of this year. It is interesting why, except in Heraklion, the "Union of Heraklion", cooperative organization that joined the project and had the infrastructure, I would say that the other bodies, private and cooperative, do not absorb the quantities that would be absorbed if the year were normal or if they had a certainty about tomorrow. On this occasion I would like to say that competition does not work, not only because of weakness and lack of funding, but because of a disturbance in the market. You said - and quite rightly so - that it was found with the closure of the focus and with all the situations that we are experiencing. But normality hasn't been restored. The problem exists, uncertainty grows because we do not know what will happen next and therefore, to some extent, not only is state intervention justified, but it is necessary. He said the Prime Minister at Monday's debate, which we caused as a Change Movement, on the measures to be taken 'yes, when there is a need, as the state must intervene'. We request this intervention, Minister, on the basis of the Prime Minister's commitment on Monday, since we can be certain that it is not something you will notice and you will see it after a month that will'recover' production without prices, without income for the producer, who - in any case - absorb it, others because of the inability to pay the price and others because of the following policy. Now you need to intervene. In my opinion, you should make a further decision on crisis distillation and any organisations or bodies from those who joined want to be able to make an advance - and to a large extent - since this is also linked to the absorption of this year, because decongestion is being done in order to make storage facilities available to absorb new production. If it does not absorb it, it goes on to say that the purpose of decongestion is not fulfilled, so it is badly integrated. But how do we ensure, because of the market anomaly that it will be absorbed at decent prices? Only on your own bail. Supplementary decision, therefore, to be taken in the previous advance at the request of the institution with the corresponding guarantees, which is not appropriate only for this purpose, in order to absorb the production. This is a solution that is totally incompatible with the rules in force by the European regulation and, of course, required by the circumstances we are experiencing. Europe is giving us this help, Minister, and we are seeing it and where it does not give us money, it enables us to make use of existing regulations with flexibility. That's for granted. Now, if you want you can take an initiative for organisations and entrepreneurs, who have not joined the crisis distillation, they have storage areas and want to get production, but they lack funding. I will tell you about this, not only by cooperative organisations, that is, the 'Pedestrian Union', the 'Irakliou Union', the documents relating to their demands and proposals, but also by private winemakers, small winemakers, who, in this very direction, can move forward and help us all seek not to keep production on the shelf, to pay the costs of producers. What for? To continue the cultivation, survive their families and have a sustainable tomorrow, hoping that there will be better conditions for production and the market in order to normalise the situation. I would therefore ask for this intervention, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u85	The political philosophy of the 'crisis distillation' measure is not to replace market mechanisms. It is at a time of disturbance to remove a quantity of wine in order to create a new balance on the market. That is the philosophy of the measure, but I must tell you that it is my philosophy, and obviously, we have a difference of political perception and philosophy here. The aim is not to set a regulatory framework - and indeed a suffocating regulatory framework - on a market. The aim is to remove a quantity that has been left to reopen this market. What is the political philosophy of the measure? That obviously one winemaker who is part of the distillation - what is he doing? It gives the wine so that it can be alcohol and we give it the money to do this - it has made an appreciation. What's the assessment he's made? That it cannot absorb and market the wine in question at any cost. So he's left. Therefore, he does not have the opportunity to get a new one and in order to get a new one and because we are interested in doing this in order to absorb the production of the grapes, which is why we are giving him the opportunity to make alcohol. I can tell you again that this has worked, we have certain quantities. I would also like to say again that the general picture at the moment in the toast to the vast majority of the regions is an image of balance. Therefore, the measure has worked. We have identified imbalances, we have followed them, but because you are now asking us to take a position, I would like to say to you this: every time the state has the meaning of its intervention to take care of when it says it. Why? Because if it does not tell it at the appropriate time, it may create market distortions, and not just create distortions, but be placed in favour of specific interests in the market. I'm not saying that this is your intention, I say she wants attention every time. What do I mean by that? To be quite clear, if some, for example merchants, consider that by giving a lower price, one will come to give to the producer the price difference, while the particular negotiation on the market in question is in progress, is it not clear that it actually works in favour of dealers, in this case, in favour of wine producers? If, in short, I know that by giving a lower price in the end, the State will appear and supplement this price to the producer, will I not lead the producer to a lower price in order to replace it? The timing of each intervention must be known when and to allow the market to function unaffected, which is why I say that this question, and with great respect for your sensitivity and anxiety, comes early, while these negotiations are under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Minister. And from the grapes, we go to the olives. Next is the sixth question, number 1019/7-9-2020, on the second question from the Member of the Heraklion Parliament, of the Change Movement Mr. Vasilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Clean olive cultivation policy, operational plan and immediate support measures for olive producers’. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you argued in favour of my proposal, because the question did not come early, it was rather late. What I am proposing is guarantees to operate - to the extent that it can function - on the market. I have not proposed a subsidy now, I have proposed with the money that winemakers and cooperative organisations will receive for the 'crisis distillation' to ensure not only the emptying of tanks, but also the filling of new production. It is just things that you do not conflict with what the Prime Minister said, that when there is an anomaly on the market - which is now there - the state must intervene. However, with regard to the issue of olive cultivation, which concerns the second question and two, three years ago, it is in a situation that we have not experienced in the previous years and which, regardless of the health crisis, was a problem in Greece, because of many causes, what we have asked you here and with previous interventions, was that there should be the preparation of a national central olive oil sector policy for olive oil. In the context of this policy, we should first of all look at the issues that have to do with the production and quality assurance of itself, and therefore with plant protection, the homicide and all the others, as well as with the issues of quality in relation to processing, storage and, of course, the issues of movement and promotion in the market. It also needs strategy, but also immediate measures. There were individual interventions by the Ministry on a number of issues, whether they concern the homicide or other issues relating to olive cultivation. Unfortunately, with an initiative that has been under way for a comprehensive olive cultivation policy, the huge gap that existed in the previous period has not been covered. This year we have the bad experience from previous years, such as loss of income and huge problems, is even more critical of this issue and I would say that even now we need to take this initiative in consultation with the market partners and producers, in order to achieve this process. At the same time, however, we have to look at immediate measures on the product, on olive oil, on immediate measures which certainly have to do with the file and the unfamiliar compensation for the loss of income in previous years and, of course, about how the year is coming will have the least possible problems. In this respect, then, corrective action must be taken. We need to see the process and the system of plant protection and tactics again. I call on you in a debate in the Committee on Production and Trade to see this issue, to call on the experts, to call on the people in the front line from the DAGs, from the Directorates for Rural Development, the producers themselves, to call on people who experience the problem and scientists who can tell us solutions and give us ideas, which we as politicians need to compose. I'm sure the system has problems, which you've seen. That is why you have just taken over, you have made the amendment on procurement. Unfortunately, however, this year the drugs in Heraklion came in August. Fortunately you'd given that $2 million advance for the extra sprays. This advance was finally required for the main sprays and for the supply of medicinal products. So the whole system needs reform. I would therefore like to have your commitment first of all to compensate producers and then, of course, to take initiatives both with regard to the development of a national strategy, which is needed, in particular, to ensure the immediate problems of quality assurance and protection from the main enemy of the olive - it is not the only one - which is the torch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u88	And now the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Mavroudis Vorides, will answer. Here, Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. There are three issues here. With regard to the first, I would like to say to you, Mr Kegeroglu, that we have already gone to debates on the major, that is, on the strategic issues concerning both olive cultivation and the marketing, penetration and promotion of olive oil. We have had a number of discussions on this issue with the Interbranch and we will make a specific commitment and a specific timetable for what we need to do and what we can really do in this direction. However, it is absolutely welcome that your proposal to hold a debate in the committee, in the House. I am pleased that the House is involved and that, as far as possible, this kind of debate takes place. I think it is extremely important, creative and useful. I have repeatedly recognised the value and role of fellow Members, especially in matters of agricultural policy, and I have thanked them publicly for the very positive role they play in the effort that the Ministry of Rural Development is making to deal with a number of issues. So the first one I've answered you. Yes, and the debate to do, but also, secondly, we are already working to create a specific project to deal with such issues. You asked me about the file. The dossier has been prepared and I have asked for a meeting with the competent European Commissioner in order to present the dossier concerning this damage period, which I committed myself in December - if I remember correctly - in Crete with regard to olive producers. The dossier has been completed, its scientific documentation is complete and the level of damage has been determined. We will therefore proceed to this meeting and submit this request to the European Commission. For the third thing that you have raised me, which concerns aid, I suppose I will tell you that we are working intensively on these matters. The truth is, there have been difficult years. These years, of course, have mainly commercial causes, for which we cannot intervene. However, this year there has been a further difficulty in price terms. The truth is that in recent years there has been a significant improvement in the price of olive oil. It has not reached the price we consider to be satisfactory, and indeed from the point of view of producers. However, there has been a significant improvement in recent years. That is why I say that we are monitoring prices, monitoring the market, monitoring the causes and working, and I think that soon, perhaps, we will have more to say about it. But it's not here again. We wait and tell the time we want, whatever we want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you must aim to reverse the depreciation course for olive oil. This year will not be able to reverse this course, but it seems to be better than last year. So let us preserve what we have this year, but let us really see what we can do for tomorrow and for the future. Competition at international level is enormous and has to do with the choice of some countries to move on to forms of olive cultivation which give large quantities at very low production costs. Greece, if it insists on olive oil, olive oil, has only one chance to succeed: bet on the comparative advantage of climate conditions and the quality of olive oil. It is the quality that distinguishes us. We do not have the quantities to cover the huge mass markets. However, we have that quantity and we can also have that quality that will go to the markets to which it belongs. Market differentiation exists from country to country, but also from group to group. It's the different traditions that exist. Internationally increases the amount of vegetable oils consumed. That is where we want to have our share in relation to the quality market and the income that will make agriculture sustainable in Greece, which has high costs, also because of the small and fragmented lot, but also because of the difficulties and the high cost of production, as shaped by the wider conditions. So that wants a national strategy. The national strategy has been missing in recent years. We have not succeeded in integrating the new national strategy into an overall view of our productive model. In view of the recovery fund, in the light of the debate that is taking place and must be taken as a whole for the country's production model, the main area of which is agricultural production, to see in this context also olive cultivation, making a decisive contribution with intervention and with regard to reducing production costs, but above all in relation to ensuring the quality and availability of the product at decent prices. That means that we must not rest. We must not just react to the actions that we are facing, but to take a leap forward, which, in fact, - by paraphrasing some saying - must be greater than the deterioration and depreciation that the olive oil has already suffered. The problem is no longer being dealt with by conventional policies and we will find it before us later completely and universally inappropriate if we do not act today. In view of all these European financial instruments, the opportunity of the Recovery Fund and the need to formulate a national policy, which will meet the new conditions, assessing and including new technologies, a proposal has been tabled and I will end with this. For example, the new form of tampering that exists, to integrate all modern technologies into it. The result can be quite different, positive. Of course, first of all, we need to make the decision, set up a working party, make dialogue and consultation, listen to the scientists and all these ideas that exist and move forward. I think this is something that can be done and not only can be done, but it will be unacceptable if it is not done in relation to the homicide and the overall national policy that we need. Until then, you see immediately - and this dossier is too late - not only to arrive, but with your own intervention and consultation with the Commissioner to have a rapid examination and a rapid decision, taking into account that it relates to a previous year, the loss of income continues and the oil producers need this money to survive and continue to grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u93	We are talking very often and I will not disagree here on a number of strategic issues. But to know that strategic issues have two main priorities. One is an institutional axis. But we need to see whether there are institutional problems that we need to solve. And that's what I'd say it's the most common thing, because it doesn't cost. It is therefore easier to talk about how to formulate legislation, regulatory frameworks, regulations, because this may actually make it easier, and this is a practice that is being pursued on a firm footing, but all the other strategies to serve, need funding. Here, therefore, speaking specifically of olive oil, there are a number of issues. You will allow me to say that this government seems to have given a unique competitive advantage in this crop. The fact that our own cultivation was exempted from American duties, and therefore we have a competitive advantage of 25% against the first European olive-producing country, which is Spain, should lead to a specific result of our own standardized olive-oil packers, in order to exploit something that I say again to you that normally at the level of price and commercial policy is unique: it is only 25% advantage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u94	How do you explain the price reduction?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u95	I will tell you, because we are going right here to the second big debate and to the things you have actually mentioned. So what is the second big debate? Does the Greek standardized olive oil industry currently have the possibility of exploiting this comparative advantage that the Greek Government has secured? If it does not, then this is the case: Spain, which loses the American market from other oils which infiltrate, because they are being thrown out because of this heavy burden, has a compulsory choice. They tried to make storage to regulate the markets. It has a very small impact because productions are huge and there can be no effective storage measure. The Spanish Minister tried, and the Spanish Government did not do anything and, of course, the market mechanism began to work. What did they actually do with the stored olive oil that they are left with, why can't they make it available? "They hit" prices and this had a more general impact on the international price of olive oil. This also coupled with the fact that Tunisia has entered, which exploits customs conditions and agreements and also produces cheap olive oil and also "strikes" the price and also has volumes, creates what you described at international level that is a very high pressure for us. So what should our answer be? Our answer will be: Firstly, the commercial sector will be able to take advantage of the comparative advantage we have secured. Why can't he? Unfortunately, we do not yet have the trade penetration. The packaging and standardization industry does not have commercial penetration, has not acquired it over the years, so that it can exploit it. Efforts are being made, I know, people do what they can do, but that is something that will obviously take much more time. What direction do we have to go to? The answer is very simple. Indeed, we need a significant improvement in our quality, we need a greater volume of better olive oil, we need to standardise this, and we need - badly lies - and partnerships and combinations, in order to create strong poles that can also compete with very large and powerful companies operating abroad. So this is really the strategy. That's what it wants with a consultation and an agreement with the institutions. It also wants a consultation on the cultivation practices and the direction to be taken in the crop, and it also has a number of important individual actions, including addressing the issue of fraud. I keep and undertake to make a request to the relevant parliamentary committee, to the Committee on Production and Trade, in order to hold an extended debate, but by telling you that this strategy is already being processed and consulted with the relevant inter-professional body. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u96	Thank you both very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-09-S1-commons.u97	With the consent of this House at 12.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 10 September 2020 at 10.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
