ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] The meeting's on. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 21-12-20 authorization, the minutes of its NH's meeting, of Monday 21 December 2020 concerning the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Consolidations on the protection of public health against the consequences of the COVID pandemic -19, strengthening public transport, speeding up the award of pensions, regulating debts to local authorities and other urgent provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that Question No 254/14-12-20 and Question 1735/13-11-20 will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The 247/11-1-2020 and the 262/14-12-2020 topical questions and 1643/358/11-11-2020 question pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr. Question No 259/14-12-20 and Question No 1486/3444/5-11-20, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. The numbers 244/10-12-2020, 257/14-12-2020, 260/14-12-2020 and 261/14-12-2020 topical questions and the numbers 1349/333/2-11-2020 and 1702/12/11-2020 questions pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr Dimitrios Economou. The question under number 268/14-12-20 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Augiakis. Following this, we begin with the first 254/14-12-2020 current question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The direct support of workers in tourism and food is necessary". The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. I would ask you, because there are enough questions to try and be consistent in our time. This applies to Members and Ministers. Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I hope it will be a day in which we can discuss problems and give solutions. I say this because, despite the measures that have been taken in this difficult period, both for businesses and for workers, there are problems. Many workers stay out of support, apart from measures, because of the criteria that are in place at all times in decisions concerning the choice and support of the unemployed. In particular, despite yesterday's improvement, there is a problem with a very large number of workers who did not open up their hotels, for example, who were supported by or for any reason not able to complete the fifty brands. This is a category not only of tourism, foodism but also of all the activities that have to do with the industry more widely of the seasonal workers. The second problem is with workers who completed the fifty marks, but who, apart from the condition that they work, having at least fifty brands and for a certain period of time, make the company a seasonal one. The designation of the'seasonal enterprise', unfortunately, this year experiences a distortion because, because of Lockdown, at significant intervals in November, they had a different percentage of employees in October, in April, otherwise, because of central government decisions. There is a distortion and there is a need for intervention in which companies are seasonal. In other words, while we have workers who have filled the fifty marks, their business is not seasonal and they are left out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We tabled an amendment yesterday to both issues. You brought an improvement that solves the issue for some people, but not all. In addition, we are proposing the following solution, so that we do not deal with matters on a case-by-case basis. All workers - unemployed, written in the registers - who, for any reason, have not entered the regular unemployment allowance, the seasonal allowance, the long-term unemployment benefit or any programme of the Ministry of Labour - guaranteed income or other programmes - are entitled to a three-month unemployment benefit in order to survive in order to live in their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, today is also a day when the Ministry of Labour and the Government show consistency and speed in decisions, consistency and responsibility for the workers, for whom we have shown reflexes and sensitivity. Mostly from the Ministry of Labour we have lifted the great burden of responding to the support of the labour market and workers, which has been achieved with complete accuracy so far, without saying and claiming infallibility. All this was done thanks to the 'ERGAN' system. If there were no "ERGANI", Madam President, nothing would be the same in Greece today. The "ERGANI" was built in 2013 at the Ministry of Labour. At first he was questioned. In any case, it was detained, it worked as the electronic shield for workers, and today, in 2020, it is unexpectedly the central support arm for workers and the labour market. Yesterday we paid a million of sixty thousand four hundred sixty-four employees a Christmas present, with regard to the 152.619,000 euro part that the state has posted and responsible. Well, yesterday it was. Today, with the same consistency and speed, we pay sixty-seven thousand workers a sum of EUR 6,165.235 and twenty-seven thousand four hundred sixty-six employees EUR 5,818.529 respectively, the Christmas present and the November wage. The delay of the one-day deviation from yesterday was only for one reason, so that we could align ourselves with the law that was completed last night, the provisions of the Ministry of Labour, where we put EUR 6,200 in the volume of the programme. After the current payment of the project, totalling EUR 2,693,308,000 by the Ministry of Labour through ERGAN, it will have been paid to the four million six hundred thousand employees for a gift of Easter and Christmas. At the same time, you will allow me to tell you, because it is important, since today, after yesterday's vote on the law, companies through the employers who represent them must be very careful in their behaviour towards the workers, because, with yesterday's provision of the law that we voted on, from now on, there are very strict criminal sanctions in cases where an employer is found to be blackmailing or claiming special-purpose compensation, that which the State pays, or if the worker is suspended, calls him to work on the business. Be very careful. The RCF is there, on the labour market, monitoring the labour market, accepting complaints - and anonymous - which it examines thoroughly. So from today on, things are changing in the labour market and those who have abused practices and behaviour are very careful. The Ministry of Labour and the Government do not accept the slightest deviation from the rights of workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u7	Madam President, the question is now beginning. These were the Minister's statements on another matter. I would ask that the Minister should be given time to answer the question in order to have a dialogue. So, how's it going to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u8	He's got his denture, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u9	Many times this practice has been denounced, which honors no one. Of course, he must announce if he has anything new, but let him answer the question. You cannot answer the question, Minister. This is a tactic that does not honor you, because you have answers, although not complete. And if you were in the mood, as I told you at the beginning, there are solutions. You are telling me, Madam President, to repeat my question. That can't be. This matter is no longer a parliamentary control, with the responsibility not of the President now, more generally of the Bureau. There's been a complaint from all parties in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Comrade, allow me. The Bureau is only running.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u11	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u12	The Member is making his question, and the Minister is answering the way he wants. I'm not gonna define the way the Minister's answer is, am I not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u13	It's not like that. The President of the House, the Bureau in general, and the Conference of Presidents, are responsible for the process of parliamentary scrutiny being carried out. In any case, I said in my first speech and I will repeat that despite the measures taken for the businesses and the measures taken for the workers, including those that the Minister has said - and two hours to give him a say, it has to say - tens of thousands of workers in the two categories that I have told you are left out. There are others, but I said two charges. They are the ones who have worked, but they have not completed the fifty marks, obviously not on their own responsibility, because they have either not been opened or their businesses have not worked or have not been obliged to re-enter them and have not filled the fifty marks. They did forty, forty-five, thirty-eight. The other category is those who, while making the fifty marks, are not considered to be a seasonal one and thus not to enter the allowance of three and a half months of the seasonal worker, but not, of course, regular unemployment as a whole. So I say this: these accusations, because yesterday's improvement that you brought to others does not have to be seen? You need to see them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President, so that we can be typically clear about time. We have proposed the following to you: if we do not pursue a case, in the exceptional situation that we are in, you should see how all those in need of support will be supported, who are in the registers of unemployed people, of course, whether they have done forty or thirty times or have not worked. They must have a three-month unemployment benefit to survive. I am making this proposal to you, to examine it, because there are many people who for various reasons have failed to meet the conditions to get the six months of unemployment, the three months or anything else. That's my thought, that's my proposal. Everything good you said, although it wasn't my question. You deserve the opportunity to say it, but say a word about what we are discussing. He is now listening to us as a worker with a family and because his home happens to be more than EUR 50 000, he does not enter the CRL to even get two hundred. And he's unemployed! We're gonna let him die? That's what I'm telling you. Look at this. It's a lot of people who may not be caught by bureaucracy, but it's a real world, tens of thousands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u15	Evidently, Mr. Kegeroglu was wrong talking about the CRL. For OPEKA he wanted to say he didn't enter the OPEKA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u16	For the guaranteed income. Neither OPEKA nor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u17	Yeah, at the OPEKA, to get the minimum guaranteed income. I get it, Mr. Kegeroglu. That's justifiable. It's happening. Let's start with that. Madam President, let me turn to the point of order. I am here in all the timely questions from Members of all the parties and, indeed, the record has recorded me as one of the ministers who have the highest service in the timely questions. I think - I will not use another word - that it is the mistake of Mr Kegeroglu who wants to point to me and the way I answer. The government and the ministers, Mr Kegeroglu, come here and have to announce issues such as what I have announced today for the Christmas gift and the November wage, which is about 100 000 workers, I think it is their absolute right to be placed in the way they think and want. In the end, in fact, the people that are watching us are appraising each other. You do not need, Mr Kegeroglu, to waste time pointing to the government how it will be placed in your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u18	Does it have anything to do with the question? Listen, guys!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u19	Excuse me, Minister, for the interruption. Mr Colleague, I cannot comment on the Minister's response and you know that very well. Please. He's not insulting. If he was insulting, I could observe him. Right now, he's answering the way he wants, just like you're asking the way you want. Minister, you can continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u20	You see that Mr. Kegeroglu is nervously reacting. It's his fault. It is several years here in this House, and it should be calm and calm, to know how to respect parliamentary procedures and not to interrupt the Minister when he puts himself to his questions, even if they are repeated, even if they are hypocritical to me. And I will explain why, Madam President. Who said that we do not address the issues of the employees of all sectors of the economy? Who said we don't see in front of us, and we assess who's getting allowances, who's not getting them, who's in emergency need? Of course we do. However, this is all done in the context of the possibilities and resiliences of our economy. We've proved that in practice. I said a moment ago, Madam President, that only from the Ministry of Labour, without putting the rest in the four million six hundred thousand workers, have taken EUR 2.7 billion. What's that money? Didn't they go to the workers? And I am not putting the OAS's benefits on regular unemployment, long-term unemployment, the expansion of unemployment benefits and the expansion of the long-term unemployed. Not included here. So the government is doing everything it can to stand next to every worker, as we have committed. But here, you are playing the "hidden" or as the kids used to call it, "the courgetous game". When something happens, we question that number and go somewhere even more. Mr Kegeroglu and KINAL have repeatedly said in this House that they have asked - and I confirm that - to reduce the hundreds of signals to fifty for the world of tourism and the world of foodism. We did it, not because we heard KINAL. We are listening to KINAL and to each party, but we have done so in order to get the unemployment benefit these people who have been more tested this year. As soon as we did, he came back: “Not fifty now. Zero them.’ Yesterday, with a special provision of law, we reduced the trademarks required for someone to enter the unemployment benefit from a hundred to fifty in a sector of seasonal workers, which the workers did not get, this year, because they were closed up and we had to make this intervention. And that's reflected in Mr. Kegeroglu's question, reducing the hundred to fifty. We did so yesterday and today Mr Kegeroglu says 'no fifty, zero'. This, if it's not hypocrisy, what is it, Madam President? Answer me. The government is here as a patron to every worker. There is no unprotected person left out of support and protection at this difficult time. We started this from March with the pandemic and we'll make it to the end. We will continue to protect every worker, every unemployed person, every vulnerable group or citizen, who has the need and support of the state, especially at this time. Especially for tourism and foodism, we did everything we could. Always an enemy of good is the best. We've given a reduction in insurance contributions. We made unilateral re-entry statements through the 'ERGAN'. Thousands of people of tourism and food have been supported by the Ministry of Labour and the Government. These are not the Minister's words. These are words that have been made with the specific money, which I have just described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too, Minister. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, will also reply to the second question under number 1735/13-11-20 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, on the subject: ‘Procedure of a documentary system in the Disability Certification Centres (CEDEFOP)’. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u22	Because the Minister, Madam President, is making suggestions on how to do parliamentary scrutiny, I have to say to him that what we have been proposing for a long time and rejects them, a good time with personal insults as he does now, comes after a long time and silently adopts them. One example of this is yesterday's regulation, which I have proposed for a year and a half as a solution to help in its attempt to issue a large number of outstanding pensions. So is the question I have put. The question has been put on 14-12-2020, and it refers to those who do not complete fifty marks. Verified on 14-12-2020! The Minister said yesterday that we had the regulation that went down to fifty, and today he says that I tell him that there are not even fifty. Here's the question. So who's lying? So who says here things that don't work, just to get away from the answer? In any case, we will be judged by the citizens. What I stress again is that you see the large number that, for various reasons, does not fulfil the standard conditions for entering a support programme. This is my last conversation compared to the previous one. Look at it. From there on, where your sensitivity, as government, and as politicians and as the Ministry of Labour arrives. The second question, which has to do with the CEPOL procedure, is that of a very difficult period of time, which has clearly changed to facilitate the disabled, the chronic suffering. However, I have tabled a written question, in order to answer the written procedure, concerning the patients suffering from Crohn’s disease, which, in combination with the rheumatological diseases, creates a major problem, which CEPD considers first of all to be irreversible in general. However, in order to continue the administration of the aid, they ask that it passes every year to be re-examined and certified. I have the opinions from the hospitals, from the 'Evangelism', from the 1st Ministry, etc., from experts - I will present them to you - who say that, in this case too, as for unreversible non-reversible, it is not indefinite to be reviewed, but not every year, but every two or three years. Three years are suggested by doctors of this ERC specialty. I'll testify for you to see. The question is whether there is any intention of you to consider this request for them not to be reviewed annually and certified by the CSR, but in a longer time, on the basis of the opinions of specialists, doctors and all those involved in the issue of Crohn’s disease and its consequences.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u24	Madam President, I would like to reply to Mr Kegeroglu that neither I insult nor is it my intention to do what Mr Kegeroglu says, nor to question his timely question or to ignore him personally. It is neither in my political education nor in my political formation. Nor have I offended him nor have I so far operated in the parliamentary procedure. But when, Mr Kegeroglu, you are just telling me about the timely question you have asked and you are denying me publicly, I really can confirm that your timely question is from 14 December. But you say here about'seasonal workers' - the rest in your question - '...which have not completed and are not receiving the unemployment benefit on the required days of insurance'. That was yesterday. Shouldn't I mention it? Yesterday in the vote that we had in Parliament, we reduced the signals from a hundred to fifty, in reply here to the question you asked and asked. And today you come and you say these fifty to zero. That's what I said. I said that as soon as yesterday it became a law, the ink has not yet been removed from yesterday's parliamentary procedure. You ask for the hundred to be fifty on December 14th. The reduction from one hundred to fifty was made yesterday, and today you come here and say 'no, zero'. Anyway, you can say what you want. I am going to answer your second question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u25	It's not like that, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u26	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu. I'm not interrupting you when you talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u27	Minister, go on to the next answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u28	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u29	Here's the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Colleague, we've been in another response now. We've been to the second question. Please. Please. Mr Colleagues, your second question began, answering the first question, and that is wrong and you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u31	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u32	That's not the way it is. We have raised the second question and the Minister is obliged to answer the second question. Please, Minister, go on to the second question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, I have generally noticed that Mr Kegeroglu and his behaviour are not appropriate. Not today alone. You see today, for example, in two up-to-date questions with respect I am sitting here listening to all the development of his thinking and in the previous answer, mine, you were interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u34	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u35	He's interrupting me again!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u36	Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u37	Yes, Madam President, but I say it, because people are listening to us and are judged to be conduct.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u38	I would ask you to continue with your reply, Minister, and let Mr Kegeroglu shout. Come on, please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u39	There it is! Here's the question! Read the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u40	I'm going on, Madam President. The issue of CEECs is a matter that comes from the past. In 2012, I undertook, as Minister, the CSRs in a specific situation. From a step of Parliament I remember in the government's programming statements I said that KEPA is a very important and good institution that wants modernisation. Indeed, over the next seven to eight years, very important improvements have been made to modernise the CEPR. The endless tails have been reduced very much. They no longer exceed a month of appointments made. Once there was a whole year to do that. This was done with painful efforts to modernise. And I would remind you - because it is good to have a historical memory - that on the issue of permanent diseases - which was a problem that was primarily mentioned in the House and outside of the House in the press debates that someone who has a severe injury and who is a disease that is irreversible, is forced to return to the CEPOL - in fact, in 2013, for the first time, following the examination carried out by the Special Scientific Committee and lasted for six months, the first ministerial decision came out, the 29076 on 18-11-2013, which defined and identified the first 40 five irreversible diseases, which for the first time gave the first time the opportunity in the world in need and whoever could not come to the CEPOL because of his irreversible illness, should not go back again. This situation has been widened in the future. Today there is another situation. Of course, what diseases are reversible or not is not a Minister's decision or a political leadership decision. It is a decision being examined by the Scientific Committee. Scientists are looking into her. And it will be good here, from a step to a parliamentary position or a ministerial position to say it, because people don't know about it. They think that every minister takes a piece of paper and writes a disease and gives it a chance to implement it, in the sense that it is irreversible, so everyone has to do so. It's not like that. Physicians decide, in fact, that doctors of high special weight, prestige and scientific training and that take a long time to evaluate each disease and that is how it should be done. It is not at the hands of the politicians who will determine what diseases will be identified. Medical is the point. So in answer to the question, if there are any other diseases, as we did with the cystic fibrosis in the insurance in a recent bill, the committee is there at the Ministry of Labour, under the Secretary-General of Social Security. It will also review this disease, Crohn’s disease, but also other diseases that may not have been detected, in order to improve the conditions of people suffering and not often visit the CSR.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u42	There is, of course, a personal matter. Insults and lies continue by Mr. Brutsi. The question was raised on 14 December. First question: ‘Do you intend to reduce or zero the required number of days of insurance in order to qualify for unemployment benefit for workers who are currently unable to take it, since for objective reasons, beyond their will, have not been able to complete the fifty days of work?’ The question has been raised on 14 December. He hasn't answered. And Mr Brutsi says that I am saying this today, following the reduction made by the fifty digits. But yesterday, the 50-page reduction took place for the rest of the professions, because it had been a long time ago for tourists. So the question is then, of course, the previous reduction that had taken place before 14 December. If you want, read the first question and say an apology. It doesn't hurt. You said so much that you didn't get honored. And I don't honor the support I've made to you at the Ministry and in many cases. Okay? Don't behave like this. In relation to the question about CSRs and Crohn’s disease, what I tabled as a proposal and as an idea with the question is this: Because we have the annual review of many diseases that do not develop within one year, but are not characterised and inverted to go to the vague question, to ask scientists whether they agree with the idea that some of those that go every year are safe, should go every two or every three years. That's the question, that's the proposal, that's what we're telling you here. Well, the scientists should give their opinion. Why are we making this proposal? And in order not to trouble themselves, but also to dismantle the CSRs not to spend every year any of the diseases that have difficulty. I am not saying that they should go directly to the vague because they are, in fact, intermediate, from what the doctors say, on the basis of the papers I have submitted to you, but not every year. I'm making this proposal. In other words, creating an intermediate instrument with the review of certain diseases, which, in fact, is too safe to do. And when I say'safe', I say it from the point of view that there is no healing in this time in any case but worsening. They're diseases that only get worse. They haven't improved. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u43	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, of course the medical committee that exists in the Ministry of Labour has a duty to review not only the specific disease but all the diseases. If and if, first, they are irreversible, it is possible that a patient or a disabled person should not visit CEPD again and take the disability permanently, so he does not have to go again. If, however, the time of visitability is extended to the CSDP from one to two or three years, yet this is welcome, in the sense that this will be decided by the medical committee and not the policy, as has been done so far since 2013 with the first forty-five irreversible patients. What I have the opportunity to say - I am overcoming Mr Kegeroglu's insulting designations, I am not insulting anyone - is this: I have just said very wisely that KINAAL, through Mr Kegeroglu and other Members of Parliament, because he saw the reduction of the necessary insurance days from a hundred to fifty, which we did, came back with a question and said fifty, zero. That's what I said, there's no end to the claim. All right, party is, it's judged for its seriousness and responsibility, and people are appraising. It's over! I am, however, moving on to something more important, which is of interest to the House and to the world that listens to us. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that this government and the Ministry of Labour - you will allow me to say the staff and I personally - have been seeking, since 2014, to deal with the great vulnerability of outstanding pensions. I shall repeat, however, that this is not done with the human factor and that it can only be dealt with in one way or another. If, in other words, new pensions come out, they come out digitalally - such as the reform carried out by the digital pension "ATLAS" - so that we can deal only with the tank of the existing ones. I have already presented a draft very briefly - and it will be presented in more detail - on how this is to be done. However, on the occasion of the question about the CEECs and the disability problems in terms of delaying and suffering, I am pleased to say that the second step of the four digital pension 'ATLAS' is already starting in a few days' time. From January to March it is the pilot project, and since April the disability pensions and pensions of all health care will be digitalised in a few seconds. In other words, what is happening today in the rural world of our country, in the new pensioners, in widow's pensions, which for the first time we are seeing everywhere - because as the population grows, they understand it and understand it, this great wretch, the reform we have achieved - it is the pension to come out in a few seconds' time in these two categories. Today I announce to the House that after the first quarter, which is the pilot project, disability pensions - which we are all interested in and sensitive to - and health pensions from April will also be digitally released in a few seconds. So here is what real reform is, which facilitates all the people in need and which this government is implementing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too, Minister. Will the second question of the second question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, be debated at 259/14-12-2020, despite Greece's reference to air pollution in the city? Mr Arsenis' question will be answered by the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Undersecretary, as has been known, the European Commission refers to Greece for air pollution in Thessaloniki - it concerns the period 2005 to 2019, where in this period half the government was New Democracy - the country's reluctance to take drastic measures to limit pollution. Greece has failed to fulfil its obligations to limit as far as possible the price of suspended PM10 particles and has not taken sufficient measures to reduce concentrations in Thessaloniki. At the same time, the Government fails to support the Region of Central Macedonia in implementing the Directive 50/2008 on air quality and cleaner air in Europe, but as if it were not enough, in 2020 it authorises the cement industry to burn waste alongside petcoke, when we know that the cement industries - we have examples in Greece - do not reduce the consumption of petcoke, when they put waste, because it does not suit them as fuel, it does not give them the thermal efficiency they want and it also builds two waste treatment plants that will also burn waste in the area. The Municipality of Pavlou Mela has carried out a survey of the diffusion of pollutants, which presented it two months ago, in the region of Epikarpia and radiated by the industry "TITAN". The findings show a great excess of the maximum permitted limits set by the European Commission and the European Union, particularly at night hours, Minister. At the same time, this is also seen by the ELPE Environment Inspectors' House, with an uncontrolled disposal and disposal on the ground of hazardous and non-solid waste, repeatedly causing environmental pollution, resulting in environmental degradation. The questions, Mr Minister, are simply: What steps are being taken to check, what are the polluting activities and finally, to implement the polluter pays principle? Do you commit to making the self-evident, in other words to modify the environmental conditions of the polluting industries in the city? Why are you not applying the mandate for direct and accessible environmental information to the public concerned? Do you pledge to do the self-evident thing, in other words prohibit the burning of RDF/SRF waste in Thessaloniki? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u47	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, the issues you are addressing are indeed serious and are particularly concerned with the Ministry of the Environment. I would like to say to you, because you have often referred to these issues, that I respect your sensitivity in a really sensitive area. You referred to the European Court of Justice's referral on air pollution issues, a development which concerns us in particular. The case has started many years ago, on the basis of the compliance with the limit values set by Directive 2008/50 for suspended PM10 particles. The directive provides for two average limit values, annual and daily, and that the average daily limit value must not be exceeded more than thirty-five times a year. The Directive provides for the justification for excesses due to a natural contribution and the removal of the contribution of dust from the Sahara from the measured concentrations of suspended particles 10. Based on the measurement data from the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network stations, which are monitored by the Department of Climate Change and Quality of Atmosphere, the following results. Since 2012 there are no excesses of the average annual limit price in the city of Thessaloniki. On the contrary, there are still excesses of the average daily limit value in two measuring places, in Agia Sophia - in the centre of the city - and in Cordelio. Over the last decade, the number of days with an overdue daily limit has declined, but it is not important for us to be able to achieve the conditions without further measures. From different anthropogenic sources, the greatest contribution to excess heat is by using biomass and oil, followed by traffic mainly by diesel vehicles. Heating and traffic contribute more than 80% to the exceedances of the limit values, while the contribution of other sources, such as industry, is from minimum to zero. Therefore, the burden on Thessaloniki's atmosphere, which has led to the referral, is an issue which is not particularly relevant to industrial plants, not that measures will be taken there. As regards air pollution in the city of Thessaloniki, the Region of Central Macedonia draws up a regional air pollution management plan and the relevant services of the Ministry of the Environment in cooperation with it. This operational plan will help eliminate excesses in PM10 concentrations in a given and short time. Also, to keep the public up-to-date about air quality already exists and operates automatically and with an hourly renewal frequency, a process of supplying data from the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network in Agia Sophia and Cordelio on the website and the European Environment Agency. For reasons of time, I'm going to go on with his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Criton Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're expressing your good intentions, but if the Ministry finds out about the problem of oil heating and car traffic, I'm sorry, but you're blind. It is obvious that the Agia Sophia is located in the centre of the city and there the excesses can be from the city’s total pollution plus uses around the center. So there may be urban uses, cars, burners. In Cordellio, however, what you describe is not justified. Cordelio is next to "TITAN", is in an industrial area. It is, otherwise, in the suburbs of the city, open to Bardar. There is no reason for pollution from transport cars and from burners. What you've been written by the Ministry doesn't fit. I'm actually advising you to come back and tell them that they obviously have to do better. It can't be that in Cordellio overrun can be one of these uses. So with the evidence you brought us, you are concerned that the Ministry does not seem to have identified and wanted to deal with the pollution, how much more to be licensed in Cordelio, "TITAN" to burn waste, when we know that it will no longer reduce the use of petcoke and coal, but in fact, it will also further burn RDF/SRF. It will increase the pollutants in the city, when we know that in the cement industries, due to the nature of the combustion there, for too long a time remains the temperature of the gases coming out of the combustion at about 350 degrees, thus producing massive seeds. The combustion of waste, particularly in the cement industries, is a massive production of dioxins. We know that now. So I would ask you very much to respond to the Ministry at the historic moment. We have a reference that is warning from the European Commission. First he sends for Thessaloniki, followed by Volos and Athens. It's the bell. React to this bell, change the environmental conditions for the polluting industries in western Thessaloniki. Change the environmental conditions and stop burning. At least stop burning until you solve the other problems. Do not add another problem, yet another deterioration in the health of citizens in such a burdensome situation as the one in Thessaloniki. So we are asking you to take the self-evident measures, and of course, we are finally asking you to strengthen environmental inspectors, so that they can do their job, because they have been decimated and make the independent bodies, to carry out independent checks and to be able to fulfil their obligations without political intervention and controls.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Nikolaos Tagaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u52	I would like to say that the issue of dealing with air pollution is certainly of an urgent nature, which is why we have produced - and I would like to inform you that it is at the stage of signatures by the relevant ministries - the National Air Pollution Control Programme, which is also linked to a Community obligation in the country and which will provide a framework for policies and interventions that will improve the quality of the atmosphere in our country and especially in urban centres. The main effort is to limit the burden of the atmosphere and the sources that caused the problem in heating systems and traffic, in the case of the city of Thessaloniki. This is what I want to say to you that it is the result of a study, and if you go into the Environment Ministry's website, you will see all the parameters that have been taken into account and the measurements that have been made in what I have just mentioned, through very specific tables, which record the contribution of each parameter to the final problem. Energy use of urban waste is an issue of a different order. The use of RDF/SRF is in no way equivalent to burning waste, but with energy utilization of residues from the treatment of urban waste after recycling and after recovery of any material that can be recovered. The energy use of waste is essential to reduce the excessive burial rates that exceed 80%. The European Commission itself in its guideline for the circular economy concludes that energy generation from waste management can play an important role in moving towards the circular economy, especially for countries with high burial rates, such as Greece. The energy use of RDF/SRF is fully compatible with Greek and European legislation, which is why it joined the new National Waste Management Plan, which was adopted by the Ministerial Council on 31 August. For the cement industry, the use of an alternative fuel is considered necessary to reduce the burning of petcoke, in which case to improve the environmental footprint of the industry. In this context, on 3 July 2019, a few days before the elections and the Ministry of the Environment revised and renewed the Voluntary Agreement with the Union of Greek Cement Industrys on the exploitation of alternative fuels in the context of the cyclical economy and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. The same agreement provides for increased accountability and public information obligations for the cement industries. The fact that the cement industry's plants are required to comply with environmental conditions and do not pollute, is foreseeable and must comply, as is the case, that the competent authorities must carry out checks and proceed to the appropriate measures when infringements are detected. This is a given and will be exercised in every direction, including the cement industries. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The experience of these countries shows that energy use can in practice lead to a reduction in burial rates, but in a way that does not affect the environment and the atmosphere. In this context we are moving. We have work to do in front of us, and no one has the right to violate or cause problems in the environment, which in the latter case the law will apply in every direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u53	Me too, Minister. The Secretary of State for the Environment, Mr Tagaras, will also answer the third question number 1486/344/5-11-20 and present documents of the circle of petitions and answers by the Deputy Minister of Thessaloniki, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Does the Government know the results of the actions to reduce the use of the thin plastic bag two and a half years after the application of the measure?' Mr. Famelos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this question was tabled on 5 November, and I think the Minister will know that we had come back many times in March with a corresponding question and a request from us in the debate on the anti-environment bill in May, during the debate on the bill - the law now - on disposable plastics. With this question we are asking you about the progress of a critical reform on the issues of disposable plastics and plastics, these of plastic bags. I would therefore remind you that the SYRIZA government had moved into an important section by law and by ministerial decision, which started to apply since the beginning of 2018. Minister, I would first like your answer, because it is not included in the written text which has now come to us, on what you think of the position that the New Democracy has taken at the time, because at that time the relevant departments, Mr Stavros and Mr Vesyropoulos, had declared this environmental end to the delicate plastic bag unfair. But we see that your government has come and extended it by law and has not even evaluated its implementation until now, as is apparent from today's debate. And even extended the use of the resource, which is very important since the money that comes from the end decides to use it for other purposes. I would also like your opinion because it seems strange to me when such an effort is being made to use the people's resources for the thin plastic bag for other political purposes. So the first thing I want you to say is what happened after all, if you consider him to be an unfair tax. The second is why you haven't had any answers for so long. Because I would remind you, Madam President, that we had to report to the European Union by the end of June on how our country is going in 2018 and 2019. It appears, Minister, that after four of our own parliamentary interventions you have come to hold a meeting of the Recycling Agency on 3 December, i.e. six months later. So the question is: have you finally sent the country's report, as you were due, in June in the European Union? Have you assessed the results from the progress of the plastic bag project so far? What are your conclusions and what you intend to do, because we seem to be delaying too much on your own responsibility, since you did not bother for a year and a half, nor to monitor this programme. So please, I would like your opinion on whether this is an unfair tax and why you extended it, where the project is located, and whether you made a reference to the European Union. First of all, Madam President, and I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, even with little delay the documents you have requested have been sent to you, and I think they are described in every detail and answered all the questions you have put to us today by your question. By the decision of the Board of Directors of the Hellenic Recycling Agency on 3-12-2020 a report was adopted on the effectiveness of measures to reduce the consumption of thin plastic bags for the years 2018 and 2019, which you also referred to. The report was drawn up on the basis of the commitments resulting from the 2017 FCH, EUROSTAT was updated accordingly when the country fulfils its Community obligations towards Directive 2015/750. The report also answers your question of carrying out checks on the correct application of the measure. In particular, it states that audits were carried out by EEAN steps in thirteen supermarkets within Attica and seven of them were imposed administrative fines due to infringements. Checks were carried out on producers and traders of plastic bags as well as on a chain of pastry products. In addition, the tax administration has notified the EEAN of the results of audits for the correct performance of the environmental fee. On the issue of the use of the fee from the plastic bag, we announced some time ago that the revenue from the fee of plastic bags, attributed to the EEAN, will be used for return actions to citizens, including the distribution of reusable items, such as glasses and transport bags, the financing of 'green' development actions, information and public awareness actions for recycling and separate collection. You understand and you know that it is certainly not a good performance for our country in the field of recycling and separate collection at all. The maximisation of all information activities should be our key priority. We are talking about informing and raising public awareness about the sorting of waste in four currents, glass, metal, plastic, paper, use of cassettes for biowaste, abolishing certain categories of disposable plastics and, of course, limiting the further development of plastic bags. The achievement of recycling targets and the source sorting as well as the separate collection of bio-wastes that we set with the National Waste Management Plan requires a change in the attitudes and functions of society and the market. In this context, we are responding to the use made of all available resources to update and raise awareness of these issues in order to achieve the objectives we must and fill in the gaps of inertia of many years. As far as recycling policy is concerned, without information and mobilisation of society you know that this cannot be done. Details - I said it and I will repeat it and continue in my dentistry - are fully and thoroughly referring to all the documents that you have received and which I have, and are at your disposal, and I shall submit to our meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, you will allow me to come back. Your absence of reference to commenting on the positions of Mr Stavoura and Mr Vesyropoulos on whether it is unfair or not to tax, let me translate it that you renounce this statement and consider it to be an element of political deception since you are now extending this measure. If you don't undo it, he's going to say that you agree with what I said so far. So you also announced that, on 22/10, without having yet made an account, the Minister made announcements. This is serious, Mr. Undersecretary. You admitted, in other words, just now that without having the results, which SYRIZA has led you to finally do your work after six months, and I do not know what will happen with the delay in the Commission, that will also be the case at EUROSTAT, that is, what will it have in our country, because you have not done your job properly, and that it has been fully legislated by SYRIZA - that you have made a statement on how resources will be used without you still having the evaluation of the project. This is incredibly unscientific and anti-European, not just unorthodox, but it is a picture of what you are doing exactly. You were only interested in how to campaign and communicate fissures and not about how to measure the plastic bag. But that is problematic, Mr Secretary, for your part, for your own political responsibility. Is it possible, then, for the Minister to announce before the discussion of the board of directors of the EEAN and without having the evidence that you will simply do the resources, that is, where you will spend the money of the citizens gathered from the bag to finance the work of the bag? And listen, Madam President, this money has been announced that they will go for the use of the brown bunker, which is another project and has other funding from the NSRF, for the four materials programme, which is another project and which is funded by the Alternative Management Systems, and it is their obligation to collect resources from the citizens, for reafforestations and for plantings, while you have another project for the same purpose and you are included in the Recovery Fund. So here, Mr Secretary, there is an issue, namely the citizens' resources, when, Madam President, it comes to - and you have not referred to it, and it is very critical, Mr Secretary-General - that we have not taken the target of nineteen pieces, but our country today is about ten years for two years without any improvement in 2019, which half of your term was yours because you practically left the task to his fate. You haven't even collected evidence for eighteen months. So there is a serious issue here. How, Madam President, can resources be used for other purposes and not have you decided - and I ask in particular, Mr Secretary - how will you use the resources to get Greece's objectives? I'm talking about the thin plastic bag. Here, too, I would like to highlight three problems in the report. Firstly, the report does not include - badly, it is a serious problem - in the first quarter of 2018 using unlikely bureaucratic reasons, while with clarifications from the ADA - and I have the ADA number to give you it, Mr Secretary-General - the report is being presented starting with 1-1-2018. You have not submitted it for the first quarter of 2018. Secondly, with the report's data - and I conclude, Madam President - it appears that we have a hundred ten pieces per person and in 2018 and 2019, while the target is ninety for 2019 and forty for 2025. The question, Mr Secretary, to which you must reply, is how you will achieve this objective, since you have been raped without data in the anti-environmental law for communication purposes to pass a provision on the plastic bag without data, you have legislated for disposable plastics without data and you are now coming after four SYRIZA parliamentary interventions, to tell us that you have data - at last! - that you don't get the target, you didn't count it in the first quarter of 2018 and all your legislative initiative doesn't advocate, to catch the target. So we'll be exposed, Mr. Undersecretary. And have any new problems with the Commission? And maybe we have new fines? Finally, I would like to say the last, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u59	But you are short on that, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Secretary, if you saw the EOAN report you sent us, on the last page it says that it is already used in 2019 in the 37.2% plastic bag of recyclable raw material and 4% biodegradable. The sum of 37% and 4% is 41%. Undersecretary, have you posted a bill that aims at 30% recyclable matter, while the same producers say it's 41%? Do you understand what you're doing because you don't have any evidence? Even the dreadful innovations, which you have lately legislate and are just European directives, are behind what the market is already implementing! Is that an innovation and an environmental attitude? These are the problems that we are telling you that, because you have no picture of the real scientific and technical development, you only legislate for communication reasons, for Mr. Hadjidakis to show, but you do so damage both the environment and the society and the economy of Greece. These are the tragic results of your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. And I expect answers from Mr. Stakoura and Mr. Besiropoulos, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u63	Come on, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u64	Mr Colleagues, first of all, one of the reasons why you mentioned, on ninety and ten bags per inhabitant per year, is that, as you know, there is no environmental charge for fat under fifteen micrometers, as you know. It is therefore one of the main reasons why we are not achieving the target of ninety and ten. Now, in terms of recycling and waste, you know that Greece is a piggyback in Europe with a recycling rate of 20% and a burial rate of over 80%, with a pile of fines by the European Commission and images of disgracefulness from landfills that make around the world. In the case of plastic bags, you have incorporated the relevant Community obligation free of charge by leaving loopholes to create thicker bags that continued to move on the market and harm the environment. I referred to under fifteen micrometers. It is clear from the implementation report that, while initially reducing the use of plastic in transport bags by citizens, producers then started increasing the amount of plastic in bags without any information to the public about the possibility of reuse of the thicker bag. In terms of thickness, I mentioned before. Plastic pollution continued and, at the same time, the end of the plastic bag was functionally and only without any recompense for the citizens. As far as we are concerned, we proceed to a package we announced some time ago, to return the money from the end of the 'green' bag and to strengthen recycling and environmental protection. On recycling, under Environmental Law 4685-2020, we extended the environmental end to all plastic bags. There wasn't. To stop some from taking advantage of the gaps in the institutional framework for their own economic benefit, both at the expense of the environment and public health. We have incorporated, from the first at European level, Community and European disposable plastic legislation with Law 4736/2020 in good time. We wanted and want to tackle plastic pollution drastically. In January, the implementation of the new framework for the public sector will begin, and from 3-7-2021 it will apply to the entire market and to the citizens. With the recycling bill to come to Parliament at the beginning of next year, apart from the measures on recycling and separate collection, we predict that all plastic bags should have at least 30% recycled content from January 2025. In addition, the public will not be supplied with bags with at least 30% recycled material since January 2023. Finally, we will conclude and give public consultation in the near future the action plan for the circular economy with a set of policies and interventions for the cyclical transition of the economy and the alignment of the country in the European strategy. And waste management and the circular economy our strategy is to produce concrete and measurable benefits for the citizen, the environment, the economy and the country. In all that you have referred to, there is a constant effort to reverse all of what we see and I think it does not look for a price for anyone. All this will change institutionally and also in terms of awareness, mobilisation and information for citizens, because without society nothing can be done. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too, Minister. The third question will be discussed with number 268/14-12-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Iraklios of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The unacceptable delay in granting the annual financial support to sports clubs and bureaucratic delays in the register of sports clubs". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Ausgeakis. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aygeakis, the sports world is angry and angry with the government's extermination and anti-sport policy in amateur solitary sport. With the generalised lockdown until 7 January imposed by the government, coaches, workers and administrations are trying to keep sports clubs up and, indeed, under suffocating pressure on the register without even cents of state funding for 2020, even though you had promised the 12 million euros since May. After eight months of unacceptable delay, continuing announcements, extortion to the clubs for their registration as a prerequisite to taking state funding, that is, an incredible mockery on your part, and after you had been irreversibly exposed, after all, ten days before the end of 2020, you gave the crumbs of EUR 9,672 000 to three thousand four hundred eight clubs that say they have been checked, that is, 63% of the registered clubs, but not to those who have legal recognition and proven sporting activity, which are much more. Yet what you are giving is a drop in the ocean of problems and economic suffocation of solitary sport. And you did this under pressure from the federations of the overwhelming majority of athletes all this time and the outcry you accepted for your inconsistency. Their suffering, however, does not stop with the grant. An undisputed witness is undisputed bureaucratic delays in the sports club register, which prevent the completion of their registration and add more difficulties to the already marginal state of operation. In fact, given that the time limits are suffocating, the risk is increasing for associations which have submitted supporting documents to be threatened as late. I mean, you lead them to a locker. Thousands of workers are indirectly or directly in a bad economic position, fighting for their work future. Many unions are not involved at all and others have abandoned and decided to stay away from bureaucracy and other obstacles, such as the exclusion of those who try for the second time to correct the documents submitted to the electronic platform. Anyone who is mistaken to re-submit is being expelled from the register until further notice, and indeed, with a particularly stressed observation within the electronic platform. In the middle of the year, associations must address public bodies such as the DU, the First Chambers, regions and municipalities, to complement the irrational bureaucratic requirements of the General Secretariat’s register to complete their registration. The unions are inconvenienced and bleeding financially, helping legal offices, accountants, others, in addition to what they have spent in this long-term bureaucratic process. To get what? The grant of 2,500 euros! The register, Minister, has become a means of manipulating the elections of the sports federations. Under the new sports law, the registration of clubs in the register is directly linked to the right to vote in the forthcoming federal elections. Your criterion for whom they're going to get and who's not funding was based on the operation to manipulate the antiquities of sports federations. Instead of giving extensions to the registry up to 31-12-2021, simplify procedures and breathe the unions, you limit them up to 31-12-2020 with an extension up to 22-1-2021 and make it impossible to register them. That is why you tabled this photographic amendment suddenly in the Ministry of Culture bill, aimed at postponing the elections to the European Union, which was the only sports federation that has announced elections at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Comrade, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u68	And it is a light light - I conclude, Madam President - that you are aiming to control by means of a coup d'état the field of sport management, and in particular the federation of the track. So the evidence so far confirms this unacceptable, autistic and anti-democratic method of blocking thousands of unions from the forthcoming federations elections. The figures are very specific: five thousand three hundred and seventy-three registered unions, three thousand six hundred ones and two thousand four hundred forty-nine. That is, only 46% of the candidates have been able to join the register and fewer of course will vote in the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u70	So we ask you, Minister, what you intend to do, so that all the associations that are active and participated in the activities of the respective federations, in the last year, in the event of a racing activity before the pandemic, as well as athletic recognition, will be strengthened on the basis of the sections they cultivate without further delay. And finally, for the clubs and sports federations, what is your intention? Will they be holding elections on the basis of sports recognition and sports activity, in accordance with the unanimous decision of the Olympic Committee? Will the register remain open to all clubs and will access and complete the registration procedures be simplified? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, if I hadn't known you personally, I would honestly say that your presence today is at least sad. You ask a timely question to lie to us because we gave crumbs - 12 million assured - by a procedure that is perfectly transparent. In your statements - which you reiterated today, but a little more rounded up, do not go any further - you told us in the previous period that it was 'invading', that 'we hear promises without opposition', that they are 'flying' and 'coop and do etc.'. So who's making fun of who? You are probably trying to make fun of our country's sports family, which with real interest, with great satisfaction, also publicly expresses my thanks and the surprise that a government sees perfectly consistently in what we have said. Mr. Synthykis, today I would like to inform you of the numbers you have said, which you have not even said are correct, that is, you have not even been informed by the G.A. site. the amounts, which are all posted. Let me remind you here. And that bothered you, because you had already doubted it, until we posted it, but you did not say half the talk 'yes, you are right, thank you and apologies for the harsh criticism we have made'. Nevertheless, today we have five thousand four hundred five unions which have moved forward in the request, of the ten thousand and eleven thousand which have been declared by the federations, four thousand fifty unions that have completed their application, a thousand three hundred fifty-five five, we expect to complete it with additional elements that have been requested by the services, all of which are fully operational, all of which are staff and thanks to them, while the four thousand fifty-seven seventy-seven who have already been checked and two thousand five hundred forty-four unions, which are perfectly legitimate and registered in our register. And this business goes on. At the same time, my dear colleague, have been collected with complete transparency, knowing in advance, since we had posted a list of what each club will get, which union will take and what exactly and exactly what our criteria are. The little whisper didn't sound. When did this happen in the past? Never! When was the last time the State money was taken from solitary sport, which is the basis of the sport pyramid? Eight or nine years ago. And can I tell you something? Is it not unfair for legal associations, for active unions, for fighters, for housewives to share money with non-legal or non-legal? So you have lied to us today, you are giving up and saying to us: 'Dive in general and in vaguely, share everywhere, without control, without transparency', because this is how it serves you. No, Mr. Covenant. We're not doing that. All transparent, housed, organized and mainly disciplined and known to everyone. We want the householders, the arranged ones, that is, the right and the right ones to our own children, who undertake to work out, form, form future citizens and athletes. We have a right, if anything, to lay some rules on them, and they too, as a parent and all parents, to be able to trust their children in clubs actively, which have the prerequisites and, of course, all the standards. It was therefore distributed to three thousand four hundred and eight controlled unions, the sum of EUR 9,672,000, without the slightest whisper being heard. Doesn't that surprise you? Absolute transparency and order. Moreover, because you asked me "why are you pushing them and the time is limited?" who pushed them? Eight - nine months now is the debate on the register, since April. Plus, it's not closing. Nobody said it was closing the register. Besides, because we have 12 million to ensure that, the 9,600,000 of them have now been absorbed, any unions are settled by the end of the year, will be taken anyway. We've said that, we've announced it. You don't even read our announcements. They're gonna take some money, I'm counting, by the end of January. Moreover, the register is still not closed, it remains open. Even when the federations elections take place, it remains the register, it's a living organization. It's not something that closes the cliff and throws them all from the outside, no. We want as many legal, housed, registered sports clubs as possible and all this list, the whole record is accessible to everyone. It is not mine or yours or to manage it as you once referred to in plenary and in the Commission earlier when we announced it for the first time. So that's why you're lowering the tone, because while you're talking to this tone and you don't know what you're saying, you're probably insulting the party you represent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Minister. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u74	Minister, if you will allow me, because you have said so many times: suggestions on how to place the representative of the Communist Party in the Greek Parliament we do not accept. Each MEP and each party have its own way, with specific arguments and documents, to be placed in the Greek Parliament. And in any case, don't get us out of here. Since 7 December we have tabled this timely question to discuss 9 December and postponed it on your own responsibility, with the pretext of several blocks and excuses through your partner. And you know why you did this? Because you had not given the 12 million and you would have been severely exposed if you had come here without giving the 12 million euros. So, to put things in place. The unions, federations, actors and athletes are facing them by a government and a Minister in an unprecedented attack on them, extorting them with state funding. You worked on athletes, bringing them into conflict with other athletes, the most dishonest and immoral politics and humanitarian. And what did the unions expect for a whole year? The 12 million euros. Are we underestimating them? Of course not. Every minute of the euro belongs to them and they will do well to take them. They own them, but they're crumbs. And if your measure of comparison is what the previous governments gave to the logic of the "hot earth", let me tell you that it is huge the economic and operational problems they have, which all of your governments and your own have created, with a policy of subsidization and depreciation. Now you appear as a messiah, ten days before the end of 2020, and you promised them since May, and you said that "with lightning actions" you would grant them the 12 million euros, from the first wave of pandemic. The conclusion is that you have learned the game of promise. Promise in May, promise in June, promise in September, promise in November. From day to day, week to week, month to month. But what does reality say? That sporting activity has been suspended at the union level with the economic hardship they have and it is questionable whether they can cope with these 12 million euros in 2021 under these circumstances. In the meantime, pre-prolyming for sports is incomplete. So is the preparation for world European Championships of all categories. The main issue at the moment is clubs that had sporting activity and athletic recognition - and you know what unions these are, they are live and actively - they are not receiving funding and the register is closed, Minister! Or you've combined it - to say it differently - with antiquities in the federations. So open the register to enter all the clubs that had action and recognition! Repeat its completion for after the Olympic Games! And stop that civil conflict that you've triggered! And not only that, the blockade of associations is not only about funding, but also about banning the exploitation of sports facilities, participation in the championship, when they start funding from the municipality, but also about the funding that is one-off and finally. Is that all? The 9.5 million-dollar crumbs for a year to cope with their increased needs? And as if not enough, you started the last act of the project not with the tolerance of it anymore, but with the immediate synergy of the Prime Minister himself. For the last 15 days, we have received a series of complaints from unions about interventions in mayors, regions and party officials of the New Democracy, your personal phones and meetings in your office with electoral lists in your hands. Is it or isn't it? In other words, you use state and party mechanisms, every fair and unfair means and pressures. Is it true or is it not that your party's Organising Secretariat organised on 30-11-2020 a conference of party officials with your spokesperson about the elections and the new administrations of sports federations, pointing out the good candidates in the federations? I will submit to the minutes the evidence of what we denounce. Have you guided or not Mrs Kelesidou, who, by her personal letter to the mayors of the country, asked their mediation to intervene in the associations in their region by affecting them to vote for her and her combination candidates in order to take over the administrative leadership of the ESA? She writes them herself. That is why you have, after all, rushed to establish the financing of unions by the municipalities and knowing that the majority of the facilities belong to them. So you're shifting the responsibility of funding, the existence and operation of unions from the state to the municipalities, obviously in the logic of recompense, forcing citizens, parents and athletes to put a deeper hand in the pocket. Unfortunately, I am obliged to submit to the minutes the evidence confirming the complaints made by the CSCE, which show you and Mrs Kelesidou. That's where you arrived. We therefore call on you, Minister - so that we do not eat our guts - to tell us who you want to appoint. Appoint the administrations you wish, to end the story! But, in any case, you will also take responsibility for your actions. You attempted to smuggle at sports federations, introducing to the House a series of fragmentary provisions, all with feasibility, mandate, age limits, the so-called register for the financing of clubs, which became an electoral tool, the involvement of distinguished athletes in elections, extensions with a simultaneous ban on electoral procedures, for example in the EAGF. You're deeply exposed! So here and now give it the opportunity to all clubs with sporting recognition, have sporting activity to join the register and unravel the logic of the register from antiquities to clubs and federations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much. Your word and arguments make you graphic, I'm sorry, but you don't know exactly what you're talking about. It is certain, clearly, that you are uninformed and it is clear that your attempt to create a tension, a subject that you do not know about. You do not know that, Mr Synonymakis, and you say things unambiguous. First of all, let me tell you - I will repeat - that the register is not closed. It's not closing! Am I clear? Clear! Members of the clubs, the administrations of the clubs have rushed and written and identified on all the papers, as requested by the agency and the register, which we simplified in comparison to the previous framework established by the previous government. Of course, yes, but they never activated the register. We simplified it and activated it plus others. These members have been arranged and will be on the electoral lists too, but they have also collected the money that we had secured. Plus, it's not closing. I said it one, I said two, now I said three. But you said one more thing to which you were caught again undetected, to give crumbs to those who deserve it. That is right, our athletes deserve it, and above all Olympics and world champions deserve it. In 2017, the distinguished ones were entitled to it, but they did not take it and I didn't hear you say anything. They did not take them because the previous government of SYRIZA and Mr Vassiliati made them "artefheti" of this money, they disappeared and it was not a small amount. For you they may be crumbs, I know, you communists are very "large", but they are not crumbs of 2.7 million euros that should have been given to the Olympics and world champions, i.e., distinguished and that according to the law they had to be paid by the state a financial aid to the logic of recognition. This money, my dear fellow Member, was tabled yesterday with a great deal of trouble and overrun our budget was lodged EUR 2.7 million, that is, before 2017, with a delay, yes, with the responsibility of the previous government. However, we rushed, exceeded the budget, secured the money, and until last night I received confirmation that everything has been deposited. For the before 2018, however, which are still pending and which, I would like to inform you that in the first months of next year, they will be settled and paid for and everything that is planned, so that you understand, in other words, what different worlds we are living in. We are people of consistency, you are people of the theory, of the complaint, of the cry and, anyway, of the general and vague things. And besides, because you said to make use of facilities, but, Mr Synthraki, you were not informed yesterday of the conclusion of cooperation that we have had and we are starting today - work has already begun, at this time when we are discussing work - in the OECD for four new swimming pools - four new swimming pools! - which, of course, I would remind you - may be missed by you, but by the President who is in the field of sport, I imagine he knows it well, better than you - that, since 2004, there has been no reconstruction or new construction at the Olympic Stage 'Spyros Luis'? So today this has started and started with the initiatives of the current government, where, in the context of the compensatory benefits we have through the Memorandum on St. Kosmas with the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT, work has begun, so that we can immediately, within five months - not five years, within five months - two highly reconstructed, maintained swimming pools with ventilation, with engineering equipment, everything - in other words - with lockers, toilets, everything, plus two large swimming pools that were on the outside. One was only working on training because it was not possible to get permission to organise events, competitions, because we had a problem with the stands - a well-known case for those involved in the OAS - which, since 2004, should have disappeared, but still stayed there, so it could not get permission to organize matches in the outdoor pool. Now that's gonna happen. In addition, we also had a diving room in the OAS, which never worked, because it had errors from its beginning, since its completion, so this turns into a swimming pool plus another outdoor pool, which we are creating for people with disabilities and of course, we are also starting a new pool for the public. All this started just today. That's because you said you'd use the facilities and everything. I can tell you a lot of other things that we have already moved forward and we will proceed in the near future. But, be careful, you're scratching in the cup of soap on a subject that you don't know and that's obvious. You don't know that. They write you five words, and you come here with that denouncing speech, they're holding you from the neck to say, say, and you're not saying anything, you're just being exposed. Make as many questions as you wish, it is your inalienable right, I will not tell you what to do, to God! I will respond to everyone, as I have to do, within the framework of parliamentary control. It is my duty and I do so with great pleasure, because I like - you know - through this process to highlight our work and make us quicker. In addition, it stubbornly encourages the employees of the General Secretariat of Sports and all the sports centres, who have for the first time seen a political leadership interested in them, cooperates with them and closes wounds, such as collective agreements. The employees of the OAS or the CST had ten and twelve years of unsubstantiated collective agreements. When did they sign? Now, for our day! Isn't that what you guys are touching you in a way? I didn't hear a good talk. So leave the many words now, leave the big words, see the essence and admit that it's coming in, takes order on what's called our country's sports structure. We understand that we're ruining your balance, probably some data you thought you had, that they have some federations dinosaurs. We don't care. We are interested in many, we are interested in the large part of the healthy sports family in our country with which we work perfectly. We are very happy to see smiles, we see satisfaction, we see that something is born, that we see a constant new oxygen entering the feds, unions, our sports centers. We will achieve a lot more things - be sure of it - with or without you. We would like with you, together with all the political parties, together with all the forces, because sport does not separate, unite. However, with or without you, we will do what we want to do, because we are absolutely consistent with what we have said to the Greek people from the beginning and especially to the sports family of our country. That's why as many questions as you want, but better read. I offer it to you unreservedly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. In the first, with number 247/11-12-2020 a top-level question by SYRIZA's MP 2nd Western Attica - a Progressive Alliance Mr. George Tsipras to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "By asking questions about the worrying epidemiological situation in Western Attica", which will be discussed now, will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u78	Madam President, can I remove the mask or speak from the Step? I can't talk like that. I'm in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u79	Unfortunately you are not allowed to speak underneath without a mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u80	Minister, the facts are as follows: on 9 December Mr Kikilias referred to a mobile average on the basis of which he judges the situation in the West Attica as alarming. Just three days later, on 13 December, we have a relaxation of measures in the rest of Greece and West Attica with the click away - you know it very well - and only four days later, on Friday, December 18, we now have a strict lockdown in West Attica, with many comments from Mr Chrysochide. Because it is not the only branch of science in Greece, the epidemiologists, there are many others, we use common fields such as statistics, and elsewhere we use algorithms, I would like to tell you this: it is scientifically impossible to rely on reliable data, data, to say that it is worrying that the situation is on 9 December, to rely on equally reliable data on 13 December to make relaxation and equally reliable on 18 December to pass into strict lockdown. Some of this, as you can see, is not true. And I'm asking you what's not true. My answer is simple: you do not have a mass test policy and you do not have a reliable picture. And unfortunately even today, despite all the communication noise you are making about the West Attica, there is still no mass test policy in the region as well. One is that. The second, the police in these past days have been extremely active and present in West Attica, as has not existed in any other region of Greece. In the square of Elefsina MATs they capture and pass handcuffs on to a man who did not wear a mask, a police clash with civilians in Aspropyrgos, repeated statements by Mr Chrysochide on the issue, which is the least unacceptable, as "we will go home" etc. You have done nothing so far about what is the problem in the Western Attica as peculiar, which is the absolute darkness surrounding the workplace. There are no tests at workplaces - I imagine you know - perhaps with the exception of ELPEs and one, two other large businesses. Tests only take place when there are symptoms. There is only a recommendation from Civil Protection for a test. It's just a recommendation. There is no obligation at all. The state is not present at all to check health and to obtain a picture of the workplaces. The situation in the means of transport continues exactly as it was before March 2020. And all of this, of course - I imagine you've heard of it too - that too many workers who get the help and keep working are not home. There are many workers who are afraid to declare the symptoms, because they will enter quarantine and then work without being paid overtime on the days they have lost, etc. After all, someone from the coronary is not treated as a disease, with what that means. And, of course, there is no equivalent support for employers and businesses so that they can have a different attitude. You have done nothing of this and you are coming to an area where you consider the situation to be alarming and you are imposing police enforcement and repression measures. It's the only thing you've ever done. What for? Wasn't there anything else? And lastly, Mr Hardalias justifies this decision: we do not function on the basis of our intuition. We operate on the basis of the real elements we have. I told you earlier about the facts. Every day, then, twice a day there are technical meetings, there are specific information systems, specific algorithms, which show us things, there are red flags that come out and on the basis of them we proceed to qualitative analyses throughout the country. Why don't you publish these, Mr. Contozamani? Why don't they go public?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u81	Colleague, your question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u82	I'm done. It's my question. It's not rocket science either algorithms or red flags or any of them. But you are due to us, the Greek citizens, to know how these checks are carried out and to obtain some credibility. There is no credibility in dealing with a pandemic from the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Comrade, to the question, why are you setting up now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Can I take my mask off?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u87	Madam President, can the Minister speak without the mask, but can I not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u88	What am I supposed to do now, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u89	I'll put it on. I don't mind. It's just a lot of times from the benches...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u90	I have no problem with you, Minister. With my treatment, I have.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u91	Yeah, all right. No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u92	Mr Colleagues, you are not treated differently, nor am I in any mood. That's the order. I have to keep that order. And the Minister will wear his mask and end the problem. I do not understand why this process is. I'm really talking to you. We're not young children to take it against what the Minister does and what you do. God, please. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u93	You said, Madam President, that on the benches we can not wear a mask. That's why I asked. Mr Tsipras, certainly what we are saying and what we are doing is based on documentary evidence, and we have no reason to upset the world, the regions, when we say that there is a situation that concerns us in specific areas. Yes, it was in West Attica and it's alarming. We have found it, we have taken steps, we continue to analyse the data and make decisions, always based on the data we have every day, such as, for example, the EGE's drive through tests showing 1% of the population in the region. Aspropyrgos is a little more than that. Because you're talking about Rt in your question to tell you that in these areas it's over 1. Attica as a whole was under 1. So we were worried about the situation and we took steps. As far as the rest of your question is concerned, so far in the West Attica a thousand and thirty-four cases have been recorded and most of them are in the Municipality of Aspropyrgos with five hundred and eighty-five. The case course started in March, which was only five of the cases in the region, and now it has reached seven hundred and twenty-nine in December. Since 15 December more than three and a half thousand checks have been carried out by the EGE in the municipalities of Western Attica, an increase of 63% compared to the week before 15 December. I repeat: the concern for the West Atlantic Regional Unit is derived from evidence that has shown a rise in cases at a time when the rest of the country had a decline. The EGE has, from the outset, drawn its attention to this area and, with the cooperation of the Civil Protection Policy and the local actors, intensified controls and measures to reduce mobility have been implemented to limit the spread of the virus. Finally, I would remind you that the EGE's daily report mentions the exact number of cases per regional section, including West Attica. And because you mention it in your question, you ask how many cases per region are, as I said to you, the overall sum in Aspropyrgos from March to today is five hundred eighty five, in Elefsina is at three hundred seventeen, in the Megaras, in the seventeenth and sixteenth and in the Gender at four hundred forty-seven. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u95	Minister, the answer you give me in terms of data is what I asked you to do. You answer me with what I asked you as a question. I explained to you that no one can have reliable data, that is, background data. I'll get you an example. I don't know if you know, there's the concept of shallow and deep stock exchange. This means that, with a very simple intervention on the stock market, the indicators are rising. So are the epidemiological data. When no one does a test and has very few tests, i.e. does not monitor the population, it is very easy to shoot. I have not doubted at all whether the situation is worrying. I didn't question that. I barely did! But I say to you that it is impossible within a week to move towards relaxation measures and at the same time to measures that are much more stringent lockdown. There's a problem with the data. It's very clear. You have not answered to me why you do not publish the algorithms and the way in which you judge the situation alarming or not, etc. And most importantly, I asked you why you are mainly taking police action, which I would like to say is that you are not paying at all, and why you are not taking any measures to what we all know is the problem in Thriasio. And what's the problem? The problem is identified in two things: firstly, what happens in the workplace. In fact, some workplaces also communicate with the rest of the Lefkanoped. In other words, if something is at risk in the West Attica it is that a lot of people from all over Attica are working in Western Attica. And secondly, it is what is happening in the means of transport. I can explain to you that you have not taken the least special measure in this respect. It's so simple. Even the very simple one that will have little to zero costs is to change the shifts and to be different. Not everyone needs to go to work at 7:00 or 8:00. Some may go at 6.30, 7.00, 7.30, 8.00, 8.30, and there's no crowd. However, the main thing is that there is no monitoring at the workplace and especially at the core workplaces, in businesses where it is very difficult to work remotely, you understand that. It's manual work in most cases. Secondly, there is no possibility for both workers and employers to deal with the situation - and you yourself suggest - the case of quarantine symptoms, etc. That is not the case at all. Already from the first wave that there was no problem either in the western Attica or in the rest of Greece, I would inform you if you do not know that many undertakings were not even granted a special permit. Why wasn't he giving? There was the threat of dismissal. It's simple. "You will not get permission for special purpose." You may not know all of this and have not heard of it. And it is not about denounce it or anyone else, it is about the Labour Inspectorate and the relevant bodies not doing the relevant investigations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Tsipras, you mentioned this in your prototype, and you mentioned Mr Chardalia's statements that at least twice a day there are technical meetings in civil protection, and I repeat it, not only in civil protection, but also in the Ministry of Health and in the EGE. Every day the data available to us are analysed and the analysis of these data is taken into account. I gave you the information we have at our disposal and give you more, if you need it, to confirm the image we have. This information has really led us to take these decisions and we have said that the situation in the Western Attica is alarming. As far as workplaces are concerned, there are specific protocols and procedures which should be clearly observed and when there is a case in a workplace, checks are also carried out at specific workplaces or where strings appear. The State intervenes, and indeed in the Ministry of Health bill, there were specific provisions of the Ministry of Labour concerning cases for employers who do not comply with certain things. Of course, we condemn such behaviour and, of course, we are intervening. In any case, the state must ensure the health of all citizens and those who are at the workplace, taking concrete measures such as special-purpose permits or protocols and procedures for detecting, diagnosing, tracing, tracing and implementing the measures. Because it is a set of measures and, of course, the state must monitor these measures. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This is the work of the organized state to protect the citizens, this is the work of the police you mentioned. It's not just the National Health System. It is all the measures that we have taken to ensure that the measures are properly implemented and to protect the health of the citizens. In any case, everything is done with a view to protecting citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u98	Good morning, me too. We enter the fifth under No 262/14-12-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "By vaccine the government treats the coronary or the pressure for strengthening the National Health System (NSS)?" The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Oxford news. Greece is the fifth among countries with the hardest lockdown in the world. In our group is Venezuela, Mongolia, Honduras and Lebanon. And all this in a country with the largest number of people lost from the coronary, Mr. Undersecretary. This is a complete failure of your policy. It's a nonexistence of your coronary policy. Now you want to show us that you can further inactivate because there is the vaccine. Sell the vaccine together to convince you that we are returning to normality. Because only your image is of interest to you. We even have statements from the Prime Minister here that if 70% of the population is vaccinated, we will be able to say that we left the pandemic behind. Let's see what that means. In a population of 11 million 70% there are seven million seven hundred thousand people, as Mr Papanikolaou says in a recent post. For the two doses, we need 15.4 million doses. I will not point out to you what percentage we are at this moment, how much sub-multiple it is. What I would point out to you is that it is only an excuse for your inertia right now that you leave everything in the vaccine. Whenever it works, whenever this vaccination takes place, whenever we have the necessary doses, etc., it means that for too many months we will have a hundred people to lose their lives, Mr. Undersecretary. You must now proceed to the intensive care units. If the House did with EUR 8 million 50 million, proceed to these investments. Proceed to the recruitment of doctors, to substantial recruitment. Do not leave it all on the vaccine. Clearly, time means loss of human life. I would ask you very much to commit that the issue of medicines will also be considered, but that, above all, you will take the necessary steps to fill gaps in health, so that we can stop mourning our fellow people now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr Arseny. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I'm really sorry. I'm sorry why you don't read first and you come here and ask things that don't work. I'll answer you. If we left all the pandemic in her luck and waited for the vaccine, we wouldn't have the results we have. I do not think anyone disputes the fact that the vaccine certainly changes the situation, it shapes other conditions. We all know the importance of vaccines. It's the biggest intervention ever. I have said this before, and because repetition is a mother of learning, it is the greatest intervention in the 20th century in defending and protecting public health. I'm sorry. I'll say it one more time. And the leader of your party and you spoke yesterday on a historic day for Europe, which we had the approval of the first vaccine, and it seemed how much the European vaccine strategy has yielded. It was a historic day yesterday for Europe. This strategy ensures equal access for all European citizens to the vaccine. So you come and tell us about 70% of the doses. Read how many doses, how they are done, when the immunisation of the population is created and what should be done about vaccination. Read our vaccination plan. Read what's happening to the rest of the planet. Read what all modern countries do to ensure the health of their citizens, mainly through vaccination. You mentioned deaths once again. You're wrong there again. We do not like to talk about deaths, but any comparison should be made per million people. You referred to your question about coronary drugs. You know - and if you do not know, I tell you once again - that the treatments that have been considered necessary to treat the coronary were available to every fellow citizen in the National Health System. We have ensured access to any medication that is judged necessary to be administered. There is no approved treatment for the coronary right now, but of course these treatments, which are in clinical stages or are used in specific procedures, are available in our country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You blamed us on other questions you've submitted that we didn't prepare the health system, we didn't make the ITH, and now you're telling us to use the ITHs, or give weight to the ITHs. We have also created and continued to prepare and prepare for the next wave, since this - I conclude, Mr President - is coming and in every way guaranteeing access to health services for every citizen. See what has happened in other countries. See countries that deal with incidents in neighboring countries. See countries - I have said it before - which did not have personal protective equipment and used garbage bags to protect their populations. Can't you finally recognize that? I told you that we are fully committed to dealing with the pandemic and dealing with it requires an integrated vaccination plan for the population and that is what we have launched and we are proud that together with the rest of Europe we have ensured access to this vaccine and all our fellow citizens in a few days' time will have access to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u102	Minister, you will continue in your dentistry. You've reached five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u103	All right, Mr President, I'm going to go on with my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u104	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you are constantly referring to the results of your health policies. Do you want to describe what these results are? Do you think we're in the first wave we haven't been exposed to in China? You know, it's during the summer, you opened the country in tourism, and we're in the second wave. We are the country with the worst results worldwide in terms of the dead per capita...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u106	Per capita?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u107	Yes, by millions of citizens, per capita.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u108	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u109	I'm an economist. Per capita, you can count it by millions. It shall take the same proportional number. That's proportionally going. So I do not understand why you are taking the moment that the country is in this situation, when we heard just now what is happening in the West Attica, with Mr Chrysochide's unreasonable statements that we will have police officers in every house, if necessary, and why you are talking about the results of your policies. You have already said that drugs are available under specific procedures. Truly, you're talking about the hundred formulations that have obviously been experimentally introduced into the country. Tell us how these medicines are available. Where have these preparations been given? Is there availability? On what criteria? Tell us a little about them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u110	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u111	You will answer, Mr. Undersecretary. Please don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u112	For coronary drugs. You said they were available, with special procedures. Tell us how much it is. How many medications have you introduced from the experimental medications that have been taken for the coronary? Tell us the number and where they've gone. Give us the numbers, since we're ignorant. You control the entire Department. So tell us what's going on. We will repeat that 15.4 million doses of drugs will be too late and have them, that is to say, to have them - I mean for vaccine doses - but also to have double vaccination. Don't let go. Do not justify your inertia on the vaccine. You must now move on to the full reinforcement of the public health system by recruitment, by doubling the ICUs, by strengthening hospitals and by ordering clinics where necessary. You must now move on and see, so that the drugs that you say we can introduce to Greece, as you said a moment ago, can be accessible to the citizens, Mr Secretary-General. If they really save someone's life, let them save every citizen's life. I am not a doctor, but what we hear is that in some countries, such as America and Canada, who have already bought them and use them, they have come to save people before they go to the intensive stage. If that is the case, it is a real shame not to be at the disposal of the citizens right now and to alleviate the ICMs. Tell us. Are you considering these medications? What phase are we in? Will we follow the example of America and Canada? What exactly will happen? Tell us what you'll do until the immunity from vaccination is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u113	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I may have to do a pharmacology lesson, but I'll be brief. First of all, Mr Arseni, you are confusing the vaccination of the population with our constant, uninterrupted and targeted actions to strengthen the National Health System to deal with the pandemic. Now that we have the vaccine at our disposal - and the countries of Europe are the first to have it - we will proceed to vaccination. It's a major achievement that you don't want to admit. Because you have done in Europe and you are an economist, read how the vaccines are produced. You don't press a button and come out of one day to another. There is a plan, a design, and traditions and population coverage. We have secured vaccines for the whole population. The quantities are sufficient to meet the needs and, of course, there are specific delivery schedules. All the countries of the world right now want vaccines. You realize - I said it - that it is not produced from one day to another. You referred to the medicines we use. It's not experimental. These are medicines that are not indicated or at clinical trial stage. Read. We will give you the therapeutic algorithm of the Committee of Experts on which medicine and by what procedure are available to patients outside of the indication, medicines that their studies are developing, and how much we have brought to Greece. Even remdecir - you know it - is given off-signal. All this has come. There are different procedures in Europe, there are different procedures in America, because there are some drugs in there that are granted under the urgency procedure. That's not a marketing authorisation. In any case, we must ensure the health of our citizens and have the data available to us which allow us to administer a medicinal product. We are in a position at any time to bring any medicine considered safe to be administered to our fellow citizens. That's what we've done so far, and that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too, Minister. We are entering number 1643/358/11-11-2020. Question and requesting the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘State of staff of hospitals, health centres and local health units (TOMY) of the 7th Health Region (YPE)’. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Before the question, I should like to say that there is a need for a substantial debate on information and dialogue in this House in the relevant Committee on Social Affairs - we have already asked for it for a long time now - on the issue of vaccination and on the whole of the plan that the country is required to implement in the next few years. This dialogue is missing. It's obvious. I now come to the question. Mr President, the National Health System since its establishment and until now, over three and a half decades, has offered the Greek people the maximum. It ensured public and human health, notably by uninterrupted access to it and quality services. Of course, the pandemic has highlighted the great value of the National System and its weaknesses and the problems which have accumulated over the years, particularly by subscribing and lack of political will to be staffed with permanent staff. The question is whether the National System has succeeded in answering that it has done so, with the superhuman efforts of its people, with the contractors, the subsidiary, with all the human resources that have been integrated in any way. It has managed to tackle the pandemic and address the health problems of citizens, which in any case exist in society. The question today is: With this experience, the political decision, the state's decision on the National Health System, when and how will it be implemented for its regeneration and service? We have asked questions about all health regions, asking in detail the figures of permanent staff, contract staff, subsidiary staff, empty organic posts, the needs that exist beyond those reflected in organic positions, the intentions of the Government for primary health care. None of the seven questions and requests for documents were answered. They've been re-enacted. What for? We insist that the imprinting of this real situation in relation to human resources will help the government and all of us in making decisions in relation to the future. We tabled the proposal yesterday by all the parties - and the government says in part - that we must somehow, in an evaluation process, see how they are part of the permanent capacity of hospitals, health units, public health systems, contractors, and those who, together with the permanent ones, are now fighting the ESS, subsidiary people, all these people. I believe that this is a generally accepted idea. The second is to see what permanent staff we want in organic positions and to see an invitation to tender in this direction. That is why we submitted, Minister, the questions and requests for documents, because we want proposals and ideas to help regenerate the ESS to serve the ESS. The government must give us this information in writing, through the answer to these questions, because it was not for the time being this question was not with eight questions. So, on the one hand, I would like you to tell us what I have said and, on the other, whether you will make the answer in writing so that we can, of course, put forward our proposals and make the government decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before I reply, I will submit to the Minutes of the House for your information all the information you requested. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I would also like to say to you, Mr Kegeroglu, that we are always filing data on staff recruitment. Of course, recruitment is a potential number, because you know that every day recruitment is done. At the beginning of the pandemic, we had calculated two thousand subsidized recruits and exceeded seven thousand recruits. In any case, all the information is available to you and we have certainly not refused information. We have also informed the parties several times, and we also informed them a few days ago about the national vaccination plan for the population. This information is available in the 'GENERAL', which is why no one has dared to question the validity of what we have said. We're over seven thousand recruits. I'll agree with what you said. You told us: 'What experience did you have from the pandemic?' Yeah, we've gained a lot of experience. We have identified to a greater extent the shortcomings of the National Health System and the distortions that exist and within a very short period of time we have managed to do things, which would sometimes take years to do. That's why the National Health System has arrived here. You know, pandemic was the best opportunity to prove, to prove, to destroy, if you like, the concept of political cost. We have acted quickly and effectively and brought concrete results. I told you that more than seven thousand subsidized staff were recruited, at least a thousand four hundred permanent medical staff and further posts were opened. A call from the AACC was completed. The 2K and 6K had started from the previous government in August. There's planning for extra recruitment. I remind you that our first government, the same Prime Minister, said that the nurses who fought this battle and needed the National Health System will perpetuate them. We have said this a thousand times since the Step forward in this Chamber that the four thousand OAS contractors we want to keep them in the health system. We have received a specific situation from the previous government. We've given extensions. You know, Mr Kegeroglu, the public administration. You've nursed in a ministry. There are procedures to be followed. Our aim is not to leave the National Health System, but to strengthen it and really to fill the gaps that exist. And not just that. There's no point in looking at the existing gaps. We should see, plan for the future, how we want the health system after the pandemic. To design new services, which means new posts, new skills, specialities that exist abroad and are not currently imprinted on the organograms of hospitals. That's how we plan the future of the National Health System. As far as intensive treatment units are concerned, we have called for two hundred posts, the recruitment of which have already been carried out and the doctors are in these units. We make provision for the possibility to incorporate into empty organic positions of the units and those doctors who had their papers correctly and were included in the list of conceivable documents. We are making an oral commitment again to assisting doctors serving in intensive care units during 2020, which will cover permanent posts in intensive treatments. We have set up five hundred new medical staff posts in intensive care units and thousands of nursery posts within and outside intensive care units. I told you about the 2K notice and 6K. I say to you that we have two thousand and fifty positions of qualified nurses who are already trained in the National Health System and who create this critical mass that will serve critical areas of the system. There's a lot of effort going on. You know that. I think I've had the opportunity to tell you, to ask you. The National Health System has completed its 'pension' years since 1983. There are problems that have accumulated over the years and we need to deal with them. I repeat that pandemic has given us the opportunity, in very short time time, to do important and important things. We now have the possibility of moving even faster into the reforms that are needed at the same and highest rates. We are really going to do this so that we can have a new national health system that is modern, efficient, that meets the needs of all citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u120	Minister, the platoon that the National Health System is "retired" I do not know where it is intended. However, workers, doctors and all those who serve as permanent, in a stable relationship, are retired, and there should be a plan for their replacement. If this question had been answered the two times that have been tabled, I beg your pardon, but we would not be discussing it now. It's not my fault, though. I say this because you have shown a discomfort in discussing the question. If SYRIZA had hired the thirteen and a half thousands that he was going to pay, and if the ten and a half thousand cumulatives that you say were really with a stable employment relationship with the hospitals, there would be no reason to discuss that they needed to staff the National Health System. The element of temporaryity is certainly justified in relation to the additional needs arising from the pandemic and no one has objected. We have barely adopted and voted very late. What was that on November 10th for the ICMs when the problem has been since April? You brought her on November 10th. We voted for it, however, because we must - because we must! - to make this temporary staff even on the new issues that arise. So what we ask you to do is to imprint the map. It does not exist in the 'DENMARK'. You'll have to give him to us. I'll put it back as a request for documents to be filed only. Work a staff member who can do so much easier to capture the real situation in the hospitals of the country, in health centers, in all health establishments, in the TOMY and to see, starting from primary health care and the institutional changes to be made. Should there be three different forms in the primary health of TOMY, health centres and PESY with three different projects, with three different supervisors? We should at some point see whether this should take a single form and what it will be. All of this to decide and propose is necessary elements, etc. I'm one of those who recognize both your personal work and the effort you're doing. It recognizes it and the Change Movement as a whole. From there on, let us say that many things could be handled differently and have better results. One of these is the issue of human resources. You have to make a decision - not just to be a Prime Minister's statement - to see how human resources, on contract and ancillary staff, in a certain way, through the ADP and its evaluation and in a compatible way, will be part of the National Health System. I believe that there will be no political force to object to this. You just have to put it down and see how it's going to happen. At the same time we need to see, beyond this human resource, the direct call for positions and, of course, the future. It is a good point, because in one of the questions I say 'how many retired in the year and how many expected to retire over the next two years'. Because these are things the Ministry knows about. So it can be further ahead of you with a regulation that you are going to make, that it is entitled to declare - since we know that it holds a procedure for calling for more than a year and a half before the mass retirement of a large number of people from the National Health System. In any case, to close the debate - which I consider to be positive, of course, but it did not have to be done if the questions had been answered - our proposal concerns the development of the human resources it is currently serving, in whatever form and relationship of work and at the same time staffing with permanent staff and notices. However, it also takes the reform of the agencies of all units before and the reform of the primary care, which will really provide us with the basis for the regenerated ESS. We don't need any different RUs. We have a National Health System. We need to give him the strength and synchronize it with developments and needs, which are obviously different from what has been said before. The pandemic, in all the evils it brought, brought a good one: Those who were talking about privatising health, have been silent. I don't know if they've changed it, because there's a lot of them, whether they're businesspeople, they're scientists, they're experts or anything. They're, at least, silent. And we need to see a strong public health system, national, and at the same time his cooperation and the rules of cooperation with the private sector, so that together he can guarantee the public health that the Greek citizen needs in modern times. Of course, this should also be a concern of the European Union. Except he doesn't have much to do with social and health. He only deals with finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, I thank you for your highlighting - we agree with this - that any procedure that will be followed for the permanentisation of certain categories of staff should be compatible with the Constitution and follow specific rules. It can't be from one day to the next. It's our commitment, we're planning it, and we're going to implement it. Yes, I referred to the pension years of the National Health System. In recent years there has been a large wave of retirement not only for doctors, but also for other staff. And the retired injured creates a big gap in the structures of the National Health System, as does the administrative staff. So we have a long wave of departures and we need to see how to fill out these gaps, how to bring back Greek doctors, who have left abroad because of the crisis, in recent years, in an overall design. And I will repeat that we need to see how to build the system with new services, with modern organograms, in order to meet the challenges of the future. I want to be clear. We've said it many times. We need and plan and we want permanent solutions to the National Health System. Indeed, in exceptional circumstances, you take emergency measures, such as this tool we have with subsidiary staff. We want - I repeat - permanent posts in the health system and to cover all the gaps that exist. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate on the second question under No 244/10-12-2020 of the first cycle of the Parliamentary B2' Western Sector of Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The immediate reconnection of electricity supplies to economicly weak houses in Agia Varvaras during the second phase of the pandemic." Ms. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are in the midst of the second wave of the coronary pandemic with scientists not hiding their concern for a third wave, and at the same time we expect the vaccine to be approved and disposed of in the European Union and in our homeland, while the agony of the whole population - and specialists - is spreading over the issues of coronary mutation. One thing, however, is certain: how long is this crisis, which we are experiencing, society must stand up, with the government's dominant responsibility, up both sanitary and financially, since you know very well that pandemic brings the risk of closure of businesses, increasing unemployment and even greater burdens on the economically weak areas. Problems are getting worse day after day and more and more people are facing poverty and conditions much more difficult than those in the first phase of the pandemic. In the whole of this situation, therefore, in the Municipality of Agia Barbara, and specifically on December 9, 2020, there was a break in currents of TEDO in the presence and accompaniment of MATs in households, which proved to be unable to pay their bills, to households, Mr. Minister, who are waiting for the minimum guaranteed income to be paid to them, who are waiting to receive food from the Apocalypse Food Aid Fund, to households who are waiting to take medicines from the social pharmacy for their daily survival, to households that have no resources to take part in teleworking and under conditions that, as I said, are much more difficult. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need a minute, Mr President, because this is a very serious matter and a very urgent one. That is why, first of all, in the Minutes, 1, which is the letter from the Mayor of Agia Varvaras to you, which asks you to resolve the matter. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantina Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So, what's going on here? I'll mention them in a few words. In the first phase of your pandemic, your Government - and we recognize this - understood the need for a reconnection of electricity supplies, and therefore issued the HSY in this regard - I submit as 2 the FTE of this HSH - where you anticipate a special aid, based on specific criteria, for the reconnection of electricity supplies to those households that had taken place up to 30 April 2020. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Unfortunately, however, while you have made a good move in the first phase of the pandemic, in the second phase of pandemic, which is even more difficult, you are actually leaving uncovered, irresponsible cases and moving forward with analgesia - analgesia is what you are doing - and you are cutting off the current in households who live below the limits of poverty. That is why - and I am closing down, Mr President - we consider it imperative that this very serious issue be resolved immediately. We also believe that you can - and you must - without delay issue a new, equivalent CST, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, which will also cover the second period of the pandemic, where you can provide for a new special aid with specific criteria for reconnecting power supplies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u125	Mrs Giannakopoulou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitris Economou. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that the problems created by pandemic are well known to everyone. We all understand it - and first of all the government - and we are all trying to deal with it and help those who suffer more severe consequences. From there on, I understand your sensitivity to the cases you mention - it is perfectly understandable - and I would like to say: We are going with the Ministry of Finance to adopt a new joint ministerial decision for consumers who, because of the pandemic, have been in a bad position and have not been able or able to pay the amount required for the accounts. That decision will be made very soon. So here, I think, we agree, after all, that this is something to be done and done. Obviously no one wants our fellow citizens, who are in a difficult situation, to get worse because of the pandemic, so we are trying to do so very quickly. I would also remind you that last Tuesday in the budget debate, the Prime Minister himself announced the framework through which the vulnerable layers will be strengthened and not just COVID. It is a general government priority. I would now like to say this: COVID is a pandemic, it is an extraordinary situation. In addition to the measures taken by the government to deal with the emergency situation, there are other measures aimed at strengthening vulnerable social groups that are stable, that is, they are in place and will be in place all the time and not just because of COVID. In the case of COVID, however, they also work to reduce the impact on these groups. I shall mention the following and quickly: First of all there is the social domestic invoice, which, with income criteria, strengthens vulnerable families. We must add the environmental domestic invoice here. The second measure, which is horizontal and permanent, is the universal service of electricity supply. This is something imposed by European legislation. It is a final refuge for any household or for any fellow citizen who is not reinforced or unable to exploit the other measures that exist either permanently or exceptionally. Third one. I would remind you that in November, the Government took special measures to protect vulnerable consumers in the case of natural gas now, which have obviously not existed and have obviously been permanent in nature, but also facilitated by those who have difficulty in the period of COVID. So it is not true that the government is generally analgesic or that it has not understood the problems or is not going to face them. There are also fixed measures which are supported by the government and exceptional measures that I have already mentioned to you that the new joint ministerial decision will soon come to light. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u127	Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u128	First of all, I welcome and welcome your commitment that you will shortly proceed with the adoption of a new corresponding KHS, with which you will be able to regulate the issue, as has been set out in the first phase of the pandemic. But I would like to ask you, when exactly do you intend to do that? These families will have Christmas and free-powered holidays. Do it yesterday, Minister. When the government wants to go through exceptional measures, we saw it the other day and after the end of the sitting of the House, on Monday, what you wanted. So why couldn't you go to emergency measures yesterday? A regulation of this very serious situation? Do you stand it for people who are below the limits of poverty to pass a powerless holiday? I will tell you this, there is one fact and it is undeniable. The TEDO interrupted the current in households in Agia Varvara, which proved to be below the limits of poverty. But there is a press release, a disgraceful, unacceptable PPC press release, which has too many inaccuracies and which eventually makes me wonder, Mr. Minister: Did they really know from the TEN to what households did they cut the current? And in the end did they willingly or not? I put it in the Minutes, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Constantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantina Giannakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I will tell you clearly that from what I read from this PPC press release, I understand that this is ultimately your own pure choice. But at least if it's out and you say that you know this is our choice, or even that we understand that we're finally wrong and we're running back to collect them. I will tell you, however, that the debt of a social rule of law is to intervene before such unacceptable phenomena are created before families are brought into such extreme poverty and in such difficult situations. Minister, we all know that PPC's arrangements are not easy. You know very well that it is a great amount often of advances that PPC asks for poor households in order to set up. You need to see this. And in any case you could, in combination with self-government, have a mapping to find the weak households where you would see what they owe and we could adjust it in reasonable terms and not just go conceivably to cut the current in this unaltered way. Because this is an objective fact, Minister. And here, what I see is that, at the end of the day, the services of the municipality can and can be mapped and they know what is going on much better than the state itself and have a much better picture. So why can't you cooperate with the social services of the municipalities so that before you go to make a power break, you know which households you are addressing and can regulate the situations before we get to them? So, obviously, those who went to solve this had no picture on the matter. And what I'm going to say is not populism, but honestly I wonder where the gold wages of the Golden Boys of these organizations actually go. At least tell them to do their job well. Tell them to do their job well, Minister. And the worst is this: That in this shameful press release you know exactly what PPC says? The organized operation took place within the Roma settlements where they were interrupted. What does that mean, Minister? Do you know each other? First of all, I would like to inform you that power cuts have taken place in rents of refugee apartments, where philosophers live, repatriated citizens of Agia Barbara. And it's unthinkable, it's racist, it's racial, all that PPC says. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, please warmly. That's an extreme racism. They are also Greek citizens who are called upon to fulfil their obligations but also to benefit from the protection of the Greek state. So I'm afraid they don't know what's going on with them. I shall close with you, Mr President, just to have a picture, listen to a few cases mentioned by the municipality's social service in this regard, which I shall be tabling. To understand which people you cut the power. ‘S.D. 50 years old unemployed divorced stays with the unemployed 20-year-old and single daughter of P.I. With the three grandchildren of eleven, seven and three years old. The seven-year-old daughter suffers from insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and receives four to six-fold insulin injections every day." The minimum guaranteed income of the family is EUR 263 and the 540 family per month. The situation is difficult. That's the kind of family you cut off the power. I put it in the Minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u129	Finish it, please. Totally you've been in ten minutes. Instead of five minutes, you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u130	So do your job right. Take care of this world, so that it can be consistent with its obligations, make sustainable arrangements, give this allowance so that it can solve the matter immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr. Dimitrios Economou, for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I repeat and understand your sensitivity and it is certain that in any regulation for which there are horizontal criteria, there will be specific cases that escape these criteria. I suppose the cases you mention are real. I'm doing this, of course. At least you report them in good faith, I'm sure. PPC has been instructed to retrospectively examine cases where, due to the horizontal nature of the criteria, on the basis of which electricity is reinforced or cut, PPC is to examine cases where this should not be done and these cases are restored. It is not possible, however, to have certain criteria which also have a certain degree of rigour. Because otherwise we'll get to the other end. In other words, people who have no difficulty in paying will get away very easily and someone will pay the electricity costs, which they will not pay. So the game has two sides. We must necessarily balance out and find the golden intersection between the strictness of the criteria, clarity and easy to implement the criteria and the protection of the country's energy system. I repeat, therefore, that there are always cases where they are escaping, and for them there is a specific mandate and procedure by which they are restored. The same will be true of those cases that you mentioned. From there on, I also repeat that these are individual cases. The vulnerable citizens are too many and especially now with the pandemic have increased even further. In the vast majority of cases the government's measures, including fixed and emergency measures, have worked and helped those worthy of need. There are some cases within such a large number of people who have escaped measures of an emergency, which have been taken very quickly, it is not something that happens every year to say that it has improved it, it has exploited the previous experience. This year, all this was done and they were supported in pandemic conditions. So I think it is unfair to say that there is a general negligence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u133	They have names, however, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u134	The whole thing is being dealt with efficiently, in our view. No one's perfect, especially in such cases. We are always prepared and try to deal with mistakes and improve them anyway. What you're referring to is interesting. You made some suggestions, too. Let's see them, too. I mean, practical proposals, you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u135	Cooperation with the municipalities' services at least before. Let's do this, Minister. Counsel with a municipality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u136	All right, all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u137	Such is the next time-consuming question. Specifically, the fourth question under number 257/14-12-2020 will be discussed in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "MEMs Synod cut the electricity into devastated families in Agia Varvara". The Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitris Economou, will reply to this question. Mr. Criton Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, I really think it has become a common place that the people to whom the current has been cut are not some kind of maladministration, are the people who depend on the benefits for their own survival. It's impressive, Mr. Secretary, that you cut the current on these people at the beginning of winter, just before Christmas, when you've put the toughest quarantine between the whole world. We only get out of Honduras, Lebanon and Mongolia on the basis of the study of the University of Oxford. You obligate people, due to the failure of your coronary policy, to be locked up in the homes and now you leave them closed without power, without heating, without tele-education for children, with absences to measure and cut from school. I'm glad you're committed to reintroducing the KHS that provides special assistance for all the households in which electricity has been disconnected. But that's not good enough, Mr. Undersecretary. If you admit the mistake, these households must be reconnected immediately and at no cost to households. Since by mistake, i.e. at the moment that you recently provided EUR 31 million for police equipment, but you forgot to do the KHS for households who cannot pay the bills, since it was your negligence and you admit it and you will bring the KHS, do the cost-free reconnection for these families. Otherwise, I am sorry, but the debate is kind of hypocritical.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u139	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know whether I should repeat what I said to Mrs Giannakopoulou, I mean the measures that are in place and that there is a new GAAP on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u141	The new question...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u142	Yeah, about the new question, but I'm talking about the previous ones, what I've said before. I am just saying briefly then that we are going to cooperate with the Ministry of Finance very quickly - I cannot tell you exactly when, but it will be very quickly, because there are procedures in which many ministers and ministers are involved, but also services - there will be a new CSR which will address the problem. It is understandable that your sensitivity and yours and everyone on this issue are understandable. And we have sensitivity, but in some cases it doesn't turn a button to get what you want. From there on, as I said before - I will say briefly again - in addition to the exceptional measures taken by the government in the COVID period, there are also fixed measures such as the PDO, the Environmental Economic Invoicing, the Global Electricity Access System and the measures that we have recently taken to facilitate gas consumers, which are permanently, that is to say, on a permanent basis, support vulnerable social groups and not only in the period of COVID, but in general. Obviously, it also covers some who are worsening their situation or forming their situation as vulnerable groups because of COVID. I have also said that there are also exceptional measures that the government has promoted. I would remind you that, from the very beginning, the providers have been asked to provide for specific procedures and measures, first and foremost from PPC, which is the largest provider. That's what they've done. PPC did it twice, both in the first pandemic crisis and in the second. So, in this direction too, beyond the measures taken by the government in matters in its own hand, the government has been mobilised and there are results. Mr President, because it is a whole set, perhaps I may then reply to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u143	If you want, take your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u144	Let me respond to my dentistry, then because it is a new object and I don't want to cut it in half or overtake it a lot of time. I'd rather answer that later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u145	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, it is a feature of the analgesia of what happened that you cut the current of these people in the winter and the decisions were made by the leaderships of PPC and the DEDDI that you have appointed. They're not civilian officials. They follow your line of government and apply your own policy spirit. But explain it to us why you did so clearly hard with MAT escorts. It's really something we want to understand. Why is this demonstration of power for the weaker people, who depend on the benefits you are delaying in giving in addition to others? What for? There is a huge political issue at all times. But since you have not responded to the essence of my question, do you commit to the immediate reunification of these households at an electricity-free cost to households, which these people are unable to pay? Do you also commit that there will be no other power cut and no other supply, whether this is electricity or gas now, in the midst of the pandemic? These should be self-evident to start talking. These two commitments I ask for people to be able to feel that the debate is taking place in terms of honesty and that it leads somewhere. Because your commitment that you're going to make the KHS out and it's a mistake that you haven't made it out so long is nothing if this mistake doesn't make it right, if you don't immediately make the reconnection with no cost, and you don't legislate to ban the interruption of basic benefits to households in the middle of a lockdown, in the middle of a krone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u147	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. You can answer with your comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Look, we're going to reconnect not everyone, but those to whom the interruption was really wrong. I never said that I knew that all those whose current was cut off were vulnerable groups and were badly interrupted to them. It is being examined, to be clear. In cases where there is a mistake, there will certainly be immediate restoration. But not all of them horizontally. Of course, if everyone's in a fragile state, it's all going to happen. If it's half the people, it'll be half the time. I'm saying that, so there's no misunderstandings. That's what I said. From there on - and you refer to the question - you make this a pleasant proposal: During the pandemic, that all PPC's accounts be suspended, that the current is not actually cut off on anyone. In practical terms, however, this means that, if no one is cut off, it will be possible for anyone not to pay. Nobody! Such a measure would be pleasing to some, especially to the strategic poor payers. Because it is not all people who do not pay - or who have a power cut - people or households who do not have the opportunity. That there are strategic malpractices known. It's not a discovery we're doing now or I'm telling you for the first time. I don't think anyone's questioning it. And there are too many cases known. They've been made public. So there is no chance that the government will show such irresponsibleness to say that as long as there is a pandemic - and there is for eight months - the current will not be cut off, regardless of whether it is a vulnerable group or not. As we evaluate things, that would not be serious and there is no way to do it. We will continue to strengthen and extend the safety net for vulnerable groups, but under no circumstances will we undermine the economic viability of PPC and other providers. And first of all PPC, which reminds me of what state the government received it after the elections and how this situation was raised. One can imagine - there is no need for any great philosophy, to understand it, nor to be an economist - if suddenly PPC and other providers stop having revenues for months, what will happen with their economic situation, sustainability and who will pay for it after all. The entire Greek people will pay for it. And those who rub their hands at the expense of the suckers will be these strategic bad payers. So this cannot be done under any circumstances. I can't believe you suggested it. In any case, you will have your reasons, but for us it would be an extreme and irresponsible act and we would not do so under any circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Minister. The third question will be discussed with number 260/14-12-2020 in the second question of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New scientific data insist on the protection of six mountains in our country which have remained intact from the development of roads". And this question will be answered by Mr. Dimitris Economou. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with a new study by the University of Ioannina, published in international scientific journals pre-reviewed, we have found in Greece six globally important areas without roads, i.e. unaffected areas. On an area of about fifty square kilometres [50 sq km] we find road-free areas in Olympus, Tymph, Zagorochoria and Smolica, Taygetos, White Mountains and Sãos in Samothraki. This is a very important element. So far, in Greece, we have known the virgin forest in Drama, Paranesti, but now we have six globally important areas, in practice untouched, where nature has no significant nuisances. Given the country's international commitments to the protection of biodiversity, but also European ones, it would be necessary to protect these areas first of all from clearly engaging in a road. I don't mention that at random. Most of them are currently planning to develop large wind parks with the accompanying roads, so this element of the country's huge environmental wealth is at risk of being lost. That is why I would like a clear commitment from you that the government will stop all activities in these areas that undermine their global importance, the importance of global biodiversity, the importance for the environment and the fight against climate change, through ecosystem services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I would remind you, for once in this Chamber, that we are in'more than two' to fall into the cliff of climate change. Minimum increase in average temperature from the one currently foreseen will lead to billions of deaths. These things are well known. Therefore, the promotion of RES, which is one of the most effective tools to prevent climate change, is absolutely necessary. The Government will not go back to the promotion of the RES due to demagogic and populist demands which have no scientific basis. We are talking about if they do not have a scientific basis and when that is the case. This does not always mean that the objections to the RES are such that we take them seriously. I'll come to that particular case you said. The scientific research you mentioned has been financed by the Ministry of the Environment, the Green Fund. We know her. I have asked for it to be sent to me - and the rest of the political leadership - and I have asked for it to be evaluated, because a study or study has always to be evaluated. This does not mean, however, that I am questioning its validity in advance. I'm saying that, so you don't think I'm implying that. It's just that everything has to be evaluated. I know that the University of Ioannina has made it along with the "ENVIRONMENTAL TABLE". I think that this is extremely useful. If I remember correctly, you personally had taken such an initiative on a more general scale, not only for Greece, for road-free areas, which I also welcome. I consider this tool to be scientifically valid - and that is what I believe will be done - extremely useful. We will use it, we will make use of it in the cases of specific environmental studies and in the specific spatial frameworks not only of RES but also of the rest. It takes some time, however, to evaluate this. However, the study will be given - regardless of our assessment - to contractors and specific environmental studies and specific spatial frameworks. At the same time, we will also see how we can integrate it horizontally into our policies. However, I repeat that the idea that some areas should be virgin is reasonable and we support it at principle level. Now, in the case of the six mountain areas you said, all these are areas within the NATURA 2000 network, if I am not mistaken. For the NATURA 2000 network it is in progress... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'll go on better. Don't do the last one again. I'll keep saying a few things, and then I'll say the rest. For these six areas you mentioned, the adoption of specific environmental studies, which will end by the end of 2021, is under way. On the basis of these studies, they will be approved by a presidential protection decree setting out land use, construction conditions, areas of absolute protection, areas of'skeet' protection - let us say so - which, once again, is strong protection, and management plans. Therefore, all applications made in these areas - or those made in the future - for the installation of wind parks will be judged in the context of the findings of these studies. I cannot make a commitment in advance to what each region will provide for any such study, because these studies have a specific scientific method that they use, apply it and come to some conclusions. I cannot say in advance what will be the results of the implementation of this method. We'll see. But the idea that some areas should remain virgin is indeed positive and we will try to integrate it into our overall policy. Thank you very much for this time and I will continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u153	Mr Arsenis has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I'm confused. At first you were a storm, you almost soaked us that we do not know about climate change, in the end you almost agreed that these regions should be declared virgin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u155	We were talking about different issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u156	It was like two speeches, two different questions. In any case, because you said on the one hand that you were positive, but on the other hand, you were very negative at first, I shall refer to both sides of your answer. It's not a ruthless study, it's a study published. It is pre-reviewed and has been published in ‘BALOCCIO CONSERVATION’, which means it has passed a scientific study. Let me remind you that your Government has implemented EVA at airports, an algorithm that had never passed pre - reviewed examination and you applied it and we are living the results. So we ask you to carry out approved studies. It is good that you are considering protecting areas, having areas of absolute protection. But, at the moment, it's in the process of final approval for the installation of wind parks in these areas with their escorts, the roads, that is, so it's good that you're looking at them, but if you don't get at least an immediate suspension of any opening road until you get the final decision on these areas, I'm sorry, but in one or two years we'll be together without these areas on the world map of road-free areas. The earth will be found with fewer areas untouched. So, following on from what you told me and you're telling me that you mean it, you're suspending all road construction in these areas, until your ministry examines this study. Stop every road construction, or I'm afraid we're just having a conversation about it. Now yes, it is true that I had raised in Parliament and on my own initiative Parliament has made legal decisions on the protection of road-free areas. This also applies at UN level. There is this debate very loudly. Europe has mapped the regions now without roads. He participates in the global debate on virgin regions. Yeah, that's all right. What we did not have, what this study shows is how many such areas Greece has. They're not many. It's six, and they need absolute protection. So please make a commitment in your dentext that you will take all the necessary steps so that there will not be a single road in these six regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u157	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. I did not understand if you were asking, because it has been published in a valid scientific journal, not to assess it before we apply it. That's not how these things happen. Of course, many surveys are published in valid scientific magazines. This is a presumption of seriousness, but it does not mean that we in white need to see it and not look at it, to see how much it can be useful to the particular use we want to use. There is no way that we will not assess it before we implement something, regardless of whether it is from a serious university, from a serious scientific group. These are positive elements, they will help to evaluate, as will its publication, but obviously we will have the responsibility to implement it. We also need to see what it says and to what extent what it says is documentary. We cannot apply something we have not examined, that would be irresponsible. In the case of the specific areas now, this study will be considered, but this does not mean that life stops every time a new scientific given comes up. Until the new scientific view of practical policy enters, some time is needed and during this period the previous ones are in place. The placement of renewable energy sources and wind parks is not currently in an institutional vacuum, where there is no design. There is the special spatial framework for 2009, which provides for bans and distances and a number of things that I do not need to repeat, I think you know them too. It is a structured tool through which the spaces are first and then there is, for each specific project, an environmental impact study, which examines the most specific elements of this region. So it is not done at all at all and it cannot stop such a process, at a time when climate change is exacerbating, because some new data may have arisen. They will be integrated, after being assessed, by the appropriate procedure. That's how these things happen. It would be very pleasant if there were a button and you turn it around and it'd be done automatically. There are no such things. Life is harder. However, I should like to return to the specific regional framework of the RES. You know, I guess, his review has begun, and I hope it's over by the end of 2021. In the directions we have given the scholars, additional measures are being taken in relation to this, with the current specific spatial framework for mountain tumors. This is a specific direction. They have been given and we are waiting for their proposals, but these things still have to be done under the normal procedure. So when the specific spatial framework is completed in time, there will surely also be an improved protection framework for mountain tumors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u159	We move to the fourth with number 261/14-12-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aiolics in Samothraki put at risk one of the last world-wide areas without roads". And in this timely question, the Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Dimitris Economou. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, and for the truth, we reach Samothraki, a place that anyone who has visited him knows what the unique world beauty is. It also has the highest mountain of the Aegean Sea, Saos, between the islands, with the exception of Crete, which is a thousand six hundred meters. There, then, in one of the six globally important areas for biodiversity in Greece, precisely because it has remained untouched, which is Saos of Samothrace, our only small island that is part of this global category, you plan to have wind turbines installed. You said before that it cannot by magic, when a new scientific given emerges, stop any process, every investment, every project. On the contrary, that would be what science would impose. You have announced that you are considering it. And as you know, when you announce that you are considering banning some activity, you normally stop this activity until you examine whether you will continue it. That's what we do when we regulate land uses. When we make a special plan for an island, for some area, there is, as a rule, a suspension of building permits until the plan is implemented. Accordingly, you must also go forward before these areas are destroyed - if you look at them, as you have said, to protect them - and to stop the construction of new roads. And we have over thirty nine wind turbines that are intended to be placed here, and we have all the opinions and the bodies that are being recommended to be negative. That is why we ask you in addition to this in Samothraki, where we oppose all the actors - including Archaeology - and it is a region of these six areas of global importance for the environment, biodiversity and thus climate change and the fight against it. That is what the debate is saying internationally, it is not just the RES, it is also the biodiversity that contributes to it, let us not forget it. Scientifically, that's the way it is. Now the political debate can take place at any level you want, but it is scientifically so. So I would like you to give a specific answer to Samothraki, and I will go back to dentistry and with additional information.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u161	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u162	In the case of Samothrace, you are asking us to stop in a particular area some investment and licensing procedures under way. I would remind you again that the Ministry, no public body can decide ad hoc and someplace to intervene, because it considers that it does not intervene, because it does so. These are identified by criteria which are institutionalised and institutionalised. So to say, what happens in the case of Samothrace today. There are two production permits, one in the area - if I remember correctly - Flower with 106 MW power and the other in the Amoni area with much less power, with 2.7 MW power. These are production permits. The production licence does not specify anything for the final acceptance of the request, because the actual evaluation of the proposal is then carried out. The production licence just says that we can start talking about this. You know that, and that is why very few production permits eventually end up with a permit to set up and implement the project. So there is no one - how can I say it? - self-evident procedure through which in these two cases, in the Flower and Amoni, these applications will also result in work. And to see them more specifically now: In the case of large-scale development in the flower of 106 MW, the person concerned should have submitted an environmental impact study then and because it is a great project, it will be judged - when it is submitted - by the Central Ministry of the Environment. That's not what he's done. As long as he has not done so, there is no question of continuing the process. It's frozen. If he does, then we'll see. I would remind you, however, that the process of evaluating an environmental impact study for a large wind park has long lasted for some time, so I reassure you that we will also have had time to take advantage of the findings of the study mentioned above, but also of the directions that will give the new specific spatial framework, which will have gone ahead as well. In the case of small growth in Amoni, because it is small, it does not go on with an environmental discount study, but with an EIP. This is done on the basis of the legislation of the previous government - it is known - but nothing strange is happening in the rest of Europe. In small projects, not only windy, of all kinds, there are simpler procedures. In this case, however, as you rightly said, too many operators have given a negative opinion as well as those who have said others. So long as there has been no change in this area, that is to say, to convince those bodies that the project is not an environmental problem, the project will not go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u163	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much. Since the Minister commits himself not to go ahead and takes into account all the negative opinions of the Department of the Environment and Water Economy of the Regional Unit of Evros and the Management Agency of Protected Areas Delta Evros and Samothrakis and of the Evros Antiquities Department and too many other bodies which have no decisive role but only an advisory body, then I am very pleased. We are reaching a positive result, that we are not moving towards the placement of winds in Samothraki, and that is when it comes to examining its protection of entry into a network of protected road-free areas in Greece for these areas. I understand right, Mr. Undersecretary, don't I? Since there is no risk of the immediate installation of winds, I am very pleased that we have reached this point in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u166	Yes, what I have said is that, with today's data, none of the projects go any further, because the first has not submitted an environmental impact study - so there is no question - and the second has been afflicted with massive negative opinions. I do not know, however, whether the first one will proceed, although when it comes to a environmental impact study, but as I said before, because this is a time-consuming process, the other things I mentioned in my answer to your previous question have been in place until then. I would like to take this opportunity to say on the specific spatial context that it is moving too fast, you will not be delayed, like some others. I'm not saying anything, I'm just saying it's a difficult process. In this case it is progressing properly. In addition to the directives that I have told you that we have given the scholars for mountain tumors - I will add here for the smaller islands, for which I believe in both cases is that the existing specific spatial planning framework, without being generally bad, is inadequate, so there will be increased protection in these two cases - we have undertaken that during the preparation of the study - at least from a certain point onwards - there will also be a permanent consultation committee. This does not prejudice the normal consultation provided for by the legislation and will be done in the manner laid down. At the same time, however, we are building up - before the new year - a committee involving representatives of several environmental organisations which had shown interest in the spatial planning of RES and other interested parties. This will be in constant contact with the scholars not only at the end, when their proposals come to official consultation, but from the outset they will be in cooperation. This is what I hope will make it easier for society to get through the study in time in all its components. We are doing this in other spatial planning, but especially in the AIA spatial planning, this is very critical, so we are starting right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too, Minister. We will proceed with the first question under number 1702/12-11-20 of the SYRIZA MP's cycle of petitions and questions - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The protection of work at “ELLENICA PETRELIA S.A.””. And this question will be answered by the Undersecretary, Mr. Dimitris Economou. Here, Mr Skourletis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, first of all, we are here today because you have not answered the question you have been asked on the scheduled dates. Apparently, maybe you didn't have the time or you didn't think it was important. And the question is: In one of the largest companies in the world, the ELPE group - and obviously also for our country - is observed after the takeover of governance by New Democracy and the change of administration, beyond what is agreed between the Greek State and the private partner in the original shareholders' agreement that had been in existence, a wave of reductions in staff, which is expressed in too many ways, either through the non-renewal of contracts of contract workers who remain a very large number for the company either with targeted voluntary departures or at the same time with various ways of undeclared assessment of managers that ultimately lead to a rhysphetic climate within the company. In 2016-2016, I was the Minister of Energy - this group had become a breakthrough between management relations and workers and there had been an agreement aimed at reducing contractors' workers, making use of those who had through multiple renewed contracts a wealth of work experience, improving working conditions, reducing intensification, which, when we are talking in particular about refineries, for the front line of ELPEs, you understand that it is directly related to security issues. In the past we had experiences of tragic accidents. Indicative is the public protest of the three largest unions in the group. I will also present them to you, and I will remind you exactly what agreement had been reached at the time. We must not come back - and I conclude my question - in the period 2013-2014, where the administration had actually declared a war at the expense of work. So the question that is being asked, because it is precisely you who are expressing the public side - so at least it should be - is what you intend to do, so that you move in the spirit of this 2016 tripartite agreement, protect the work, the working conditions and stop this wave of reduction of workers and particularly pressure on contractors. I put forward the relevant figures. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u169	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Interestingly, the question does not affect the more general issues facing ELPEs at the moment, oil prices formation, a number of important international developments, which identify the framework within which ELPEs are moving at the moment. He's focusing on work. So I'll stay at work too. You mentioned a systematic reduction - I do not remember if you used the word, but that was the concept of workers. That's not true. On the basis of the information we have received from the administration of the ELPE, there is no systematic reduction in staff, no sharp reduction in staff. What is happening is that some ELPE contracts with contractors, the object of which has been completed, are not renewed. That's normal and rational. It makes no sense to renew contracts for items that have been closed. So this is the case, but it is the opposite of what you say. It's a rational management process of the company. Contracts are not to serve contractors or to create fictitious jobs. The conventions are designed to tackle specific problems. As long as the problem exists, the contract is renewed. When this problem ceases to exist, the contract is not renewed. That's what's happened. The second thing you mentioned is for the recruitment of staff. The current ELPE administration has streamlined its staff recruitment process even further. In particular, I should like to say that the need for recruitment must now be clearly documented. That's rational. There must be a documentation of necessity. There must also be a specific qualification framework for those recruited for this particular post. This is what the administration has done, and these are neither an attack on labour nor a negative one. They are positive developments, leading to a modernisation of the management of the company and the company itself, to an increase in productivity, and it is obviously also for the benefit of the workers, but also for the benefit of the entire Greek population, which benefits from the operation of large companies in the field of energy, such as ELPEs. The third one you mentioned is for the evaluation system. The system of assessment of recruited persons was decided to be established in 2018 and was first applied in 2019. This is the case today, and nothing else is going on. If you think what was formed then was wrong, we should talk about it. We don't think it was wrong, though. So we implement a system that has a past and helps improve the quality of the people employed for the specific needs. That is all, Mr President, and I shall come back to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u172	I don't know if I didn't get you to understand some things, but I guess you showed me that you don't get the core of the problem. The problem is now on the table: Will this very large number of contract workers begin to be reduced in favour of permanent workers in the group? There is no reason, when we talk about several years of continuous employment, to go with renewed contracts, which in the meantime, in the middle of the pandemic, are six months or even three months old. So what kind of employment relationship is being built between the worker and the company? Terrorism? Insecurity? And don't tell me that this is about contractors, because that's a pretext. They're team choices. You're exploiting a generalised regime that shouldn't have existed anyway. Obviously, this concerns not only the group. It is another question of contractors and whether they should have such a large share of total employees not only in this company but also in others. In many large companies, many large groups today are playing by the parent company suddenly transferring subsidiaries or contractors to other companies. It is a well-known trick of depreciating work, of degrading it, of reducing incomes. It is a more comprehensive debate. But here it is found that you are just moving in the opposite direction to the direction that had been established in the administrations that had taken place since 2015. And that's the problem. You are changing - and you did not answer that - what is included in the shareholders' agreement, despite the fact that the Greek State participated with 35%, had the majority in the management of the company. You gave it to the Latsi Group. That's what's happening right now. You granted the interests of the Greek State, the majority representation of the Greek State, with what this means, to one of the largest companies in the Mediterranean, Europe, the world, the private partner, who seems to have other priorities, is active in a number of other areas. And if you look at the company's own course, you will see, compared to others in space, that since the change of administration, it goes from bad to worse, while the best period, after the company's dramatic course in 2012, 2013, 2014, was, when it took over management, representing the real interests of the Greek State in the government of SYRIZA. Obviously neither you nor I are substituting management. It's not our role, or yours, as Minister. But what you must do is just look at serving the public interest and not the interests of individuals. These are the major problems in a strategic company, the largest refineries in the Mediterranean, which adds great value to the Greek economy, it is related to the country's strategic reserves at a time of major imbalances, competitions, national risks. And the big question arises if, taking into account all this and the inefficiency of the current administration, as it has emerged, it is time to continue on the path of further privatization. And that's what you're calling on. So what will you gain with some millions of the reduction in the Greek government's debt-sharing rate? Is that new investments? No, of course not. It is a deadlock, which - even now - you should abandon as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u174	Thank you. From what I understand, you have discovered that the privatisation of state-owned companies is a bad thing. This has also been done during the SYRIZA period. New Democracy didn't find out as a process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u175	What is it? For the ELPEs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u176	Yeah. ELPE is one of the cases in total. There is an overall policy on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u177	Which company are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u178	We cannot say that it is bad for the ELPEs, but good for something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u179	Which company are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u180	I mean the issue of privatization of large state-controlled companies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u181	One example, say!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u182	Don't interrupt. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u183	Please don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you, even though you said inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Skourlet, please, let him finish. You asked your question and your dentistry. Everybody's judged. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u185	But you can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u186	Let me answer. You will not decide what I am going to say, nor are you the judge of the accuracy of what I say. Or you'll be a judge later, not during the time I'm speaking. So, how's it going to be? That's not a conversation. It's aalum.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u187	If the President gives me the floor, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u188	All right, well, I'll talk alone. SYRIZA later discovered that the private sector is a bad thing, although when it was in the government, he exploited it in various ways. For reasons of your own, internal or anything else, you come and succeed against the methods you have used. In this case, you have made this interesting reasoning twice. You considered something you mentioned to be a given, but it needs to be proved and then, in view of the fact that, without it being established, you have reached conclusions. You did this twice. One case is in the case of workers and contractors, which you have said that holidays are a pretext, and so on. You didn't prove that. Because you say it, it's not proof. And I say the opposite. If you want to have a serious debate at this level, you have to bring specific evidence, that this interruption is incorrect, for that reason and it hides, etc. So, with a general, your confirmation that this is the case, they don't have to believe it. The same is true in the case of ELPEs. The inadequacy of today's administration must prove it. It doesn't prove because you say so. Get some evidence to talk about it. What you say today's administration is inadequate in general and on this you build all your arguments simply makes the rest of the argument without a basis. So I repeat in both cases that, when there are certain elements or arguments, we should discuss them, but not on the basis of your assurances, you have a whole structure of reflection and then ask us to answer as if we were guilty of this whole structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u189	The last question for today, but also for the coming year, 2020, is the fifth question under No 1349/333/2-11-2020, and is it the request for documents of the circle of petitions and questions of the Greek MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Greek insulation' before privatisation and the DEDDIA?’ The Minister, Mr. Economou, will answer. Mr. Femmelle, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's the last question. May I wish in advance good festivities to all and health.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u191	It's the last one. You'll have a lot more comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u192	After all, it must be the wish of all our fellow Members, the workers in the House and all our fellow citizens. Mr President, as you rightly said, it is a question and an application for documents submitted on 10 September, which was re-issued on 2 November and because the necessary documents have not been received and the necessary documents have therefore been converted into a timely one. Beforehand, I will inform you that if the documents are not lodged today, the question will be turned into a question. I would therefore ask the Secretary-General to inform us whether he has brought the documents required by the question and which we request. The question concerns something that completely disproves what Mr Economou said earlier. And I wonder: Has he not read the Minutes, to know that a question comes where it turns out that the 'blue' children are using the public in order to be able to be appointed, paid completely and to consume public resources at the expense of national interest and energy transformation? You have charged yourself and indirectly mentioned that our approach is at the expense of the private sector. But here, we see that an energy agency of public interest is being attempted, along with its privatisation - the sale - there is also its exploitation and by opaque supplies and by the settlement of tens of 'blue' children at high-paid jobs. Mr. Economou, what's the contradiction with what you said earlier to Mr. Skourletis? Finally, it seems that the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Let's see what the data is. So you are trying to privatise 49% of the country's energy transition in the TEN, and we need to use this body, and to distribute electricity, to connect renewable energy sources and to boost investment in RES. And under the argument of modernization you hide the tactics of blue children and the affliction of the TEDE with a fast track process by "blue" children. While, on the one hand, you are professing on the market, in the end, all you do is to settle your own people in government positions. Isn't that what you want people to know? You're lying to entrepreneurship, because all you're doing is to settle in public yours, with certain biographic names and names, Mr. Economou. Mr. Hatzidakis isn't here to tell him where he's responsible. You're here. Spatial planning, no matter what, I'll see you. Mr President, what we are denounced is that, before divestment, you are plundering the TEN and we want it to be written in the Minutes like this. The New Democracy is plundering the DEDAD before the divestment. You are being taken for increased investment interest - take note, Mr President, of what is exactly what this is of interest - for a body which has a profit of hundreds of millions per year. It has both a positive return - the 'wack' - a given income contract and a million euro dowry with the smart cash programme. Mr President, I think you too will. It is obvious, Mr. Economou, that you will have many suitors. If you proceeded to a privatization that the investor would like to put into, take risk, they would be few, but the good ones. Now, in the pandemic, everyone will look possible and profitable funds at the expense of Greece. And you're on your way to this privatization? But let's go a little bit to the executives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, from the document that came from, which does not satisfy the request for documents, why is it just the document of administration, not the documents, it says that while he was afraid of 'blackout', Mr Hatzidakis had insinuations - so when he took over - why did he make fun of us with such arguments? Because, at the same time, two new positions of directors were created, five new addresses created, two heads of assistance. Look out, Mr. President. Without staff, they appoint assistant directors to assist the directors-general, and they already have managers and two steps become addresses. And I ask, Mr Economou: with what programme, with which plan, Mr President, with what organizational plan, with which decisions, to whom did you commission the study on the reorganisation of services, when the previous administration co-existed addresses in order to make the system more effective and more effective? Because here the DEDEFOP needs medium and technical managers. There's no need for managers to sit without workers. As far as pay is concerned, Mr President, they are abolishing the wall that the previous government had. They don't bring us any evidence what managers were costing before and what they are now costing - they are hiding them from the application for documents - and they are raising the Director-General's fee to 100 grand - the document admits it - and 50% of the bonus. All of this is written in the new document that's here now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u193	You'll continue in your dentistry as well. You've been in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u194	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'll be done. What better message for DPRK executives to become assistance managers without workers and without obligations and to also take these fees and bonuses out? Of course, the notice, Mr Economou, does not give rise to compulsory experience. It says: 'The pre-service or experience'. In other words, managers are recruited without experience in management positions. At the same time, you have omitted what has happened so far. I'll tell you three facts to close and talk about supplies in my dentistry. The strategic and regulation directorate with ten executives, Mr. President, has become a general directorate with three directors, ten directors! The Treasury Department became three directorates, with ten executives each, which had to enter under another Directorate-General. Were you addressing the Subsidized Works Monitoring Department with two or three executives, addressing it to put a blue child and there, a trade unionist, PPC and TEDO? So is the Crisis Department, no executives! All that says now and indirectly the document you sent, even though you tried to hide a lot, because you did not bring any documents. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u195	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype. You'll have time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, from information I have, you have answered your question. The evidence has been filed. If you think it's inadequate, put it. But the evidence has been filed. You've already commented on social media - I don't know what they're saying, because I don't use it - networking, Facebook, etc. Also, the privatisation of 49% of the TEN, and I think you have already commented on this in the media, has already been announced. So some evidence you requested has been filed. I will not answer that question. The Minister for the Environment, Mr. Hatzidakis, would normally be here if today's meeting were held yesterday, as planned. Unfortunately, he was transferred today. Today, at the moment, he has a Ministerial Council and has to be there. So if Mr Hatzidakis were here, indeed, he would proceed to a more general debate on energy policy. I will stay on certain specific issues that are based on what the TEN has answered us. First theme. The DEDEN is an undertaking under public control. The main shareholder is PPC with 51% and the current privatisation is 49%. 51% remains in public control. It is a transport system corresponding to IPTO and has proportions. The corresponding process took place in 2017, by the previous government. So saying on one occasion that having an investor of 49% is not acceptable, on the other hand, in a similar case to saying that it is acceptable, obviously contradictory. Will you now tell me about the contradictions? I remember SYRIZA's contradictions in the debate on the spatial bill on the non-project construction, which I would remind you of. For years you have been talking against the non-building project - not only SYRIZA and other Members of Parliament or parties - and when it was time to prove that they meant it, 'they turned by the engagement', as they say, no specific provisions were adopted. So don't talk to us. See first what you have done in these cases. To return to privatization, I have already said that this is something similar to what has been done before and in any case, if there is any reason for me not to do so, you should bring concrete facts and arguments. The argument that in general, it is a bad thing to privatize is not true. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. You could take advantage of the President's particularly favourable position - and festive - to give us some information in your speech. I think you'll do it in dentistry. After all, Mr. Economou, today I didn't tell you anything about you coming, because I know Mr. Hatzidakis was coming yesterday. As you can see, I understand that, even though you're in Spatial Planning. It was yesterday the debate and I was unable to come and I have not been able to leave, but let us have a debate on the substance. Can we close the privatization issue? You asked a question. I'll answer you, I'm fine with it. Apart from the fact that they are not the bodies themselves, notice this. You were preparing a competition, and I mean the previous government. You weren't a member of her, but I'm talking about New Democracy, the Samara Government - Venizelou. A competition was opened to sell the majority of the shares of IPTO, the High/High Voltage Network, which was also cancelled and we went, due to the Memorandum Obligation you created in the institutions, in a competition where it finally kept the public in 51%. One of the prisoners. So we canceled your plans to give the IPTO. Secondly, privatization of the TEN is not a Memorandum or a European obligation. In other words, we have managed to make a Memorandum of Obligation, your bankruptcy, good for the public interest, and you are now without obligation, selling the public interest. That's our difference. However, let's go to the essence of the question, because I appreciate the parliamentary rule. I asked you some specific questions about the executives. First, what study resulted from the change in organogram when coexistence was needed? Secondly, how were the executives chosen and why did the administrative premise not come as a criterion? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, why didn't you do the process first within the agency, so we can see if there are executives and then go out on the market? Fourthly, why do the CVs have the strains you took? Fifth, why did you make unpaid addresses just to get high wages? And, sixthly, you're going to testify to us the decisions of the board of directors, so we can see how the competitions and the whole game of the "blue" children became? You won't avoid it, Mr. Economou. I declare this and say it officially for the Minutes, Mr President, that we have requested the submission of documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u199	The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u200	I say that for formal reasons. We have requested the establishment plan before and after, a sum of wages and sub-sectorals, to see the management costs, the notices and contracts for the supply of health material and the awards to study companies. I'm saying it briefly. We shall then proceed to the question, Mr President. However, the second part of the question, Mr Minister, which I hope you will answer now, is as follows: the direct award procedure for COVID was fully exploited in the TEN, contrary to PPC, Mr President. So first question on the second part of the question: why didn't you make contests - as PPC did - and you went to direct awards? The result is - and we want the verification by you, Mr. Undersecretary - that PPC with a staff of 50% more than the DEDEN, spent one tenth of what's going to the DEDEN. Here, then, is a serious problem, not just of reducing the public interest, not of smuggling public money, but of strange transactions, with invisible invoices that have not been submitted, as well as a serious problem, which is also confirmed by internal checks carried out in the OSCE, which you have hidden in the reply. Indeed, we have received an answer. He doesn't say all that in there. So I ask you this: has the Ministry's political leadership compared the invoices and the documents on masks and procurement parties set up with triangular transactions in the TEDO? My question says so. You haven't answered that in writing. I also want you to tell us this: Is it a fact that the DEDEFOP has come to consume 8-10 million for equivalent supplies, which in PPC, which is larger in staff, cost 1 million? The question is, and we want you to answer that. And here to see who's finally been more careful of the staff. Who is ultimately good with the staff and who is not, but also with the public interest? Is it true that FFP2/KN95 masks have been purchased, at prices of EUR 10 to EUR 4, while on the market they make EUR 1?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u201	Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, my speech is three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u203	You've spoken a total of twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u204	Of course, the question is where the invoices are. So there is a serious issue here. You tell us that you made stockpile and say that you have two million masks in the TEDO today. That's what the document says. Look out, Mr. President. With about six thousand employees we estimate that it takes five hundred thousand masks for a maximum of four months, and I also put weekends in. You two million for why did you over-exposed them and with weird trades of arrogant cost? So the question is very simple: What masks was provided by the TEDO? How much did it cost? Who got it from? And what does the internal audit report say? We have learned, Mr President, that the internal audit report has been conducted on an intervening basis. So here, Mr President, we are convinced that there is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Femmelle, you've been over fifteen minutes. Finish it, please! For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u206	That is why I believe - as a suggestion to the Secretary-General - that either you ask the internal auditors to go to the board or you will ask the prosecutor if all this is true. I ask, and I am entitled to ask, like SYRIZA, of course, but these are serious complaints, because in the DEDDIE what we see is undignification, fear, threats, a group of besties that inactivates experienced executives, smash resources, lose know-how, gather managers, blue children, without...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u207	Shut up, Mr. Felmele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u208	...and you're throwing a party before the dive, which is against the public interest. These require answers and we obviously want the question procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u209	Minister, you have comfort and you can answer your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. I don't think I'm gonna need a lot of time. I'll start at the end, probably from the end, because it was quite a few minutes you were talking. Look, for the first time, you brought questions that were not in the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u211	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u212	Specifically for masks and so on. These are not detailed in the question, so I cannot answer because I was not prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Femelle, don't interrupt him. The Minister didn't interrupt you. You won't interrupt him either. You asked your questions, you will answer and the people who listen to us will judge. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u214	I have read the question and these specific things you mentioned do not exist in the question, so do not expect that I will suddenly reply for a specific contract. We have to look into it. How do I answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u215	I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u216	Check it out whenever you want. But you must testify to her in order to answer her. I can't suddenly remember the number...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u217	He's on the question, Mr. Undersecretary. I put this question in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u218	Deposit any document you want, but don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u219	From there on, if the information you requested has not been given you, you have every right of course to protest. I don't know, I don't fit in this. You may be right if you have not been given the information you requested. The briefing I had is that what you asked was given them to you. If that's not true, I understand what you're saying. But if it doesn't. I can't put myself in, since I can't control it. But you also entered other issues in general, about IPTO and privatisation and said that in the case of IPTO it was a Memorandum of Understanding, while in the case of IPTO it is not a Memorandum. First of all, SYRIZA's talking about the memos as if it were something that others did and not himself is a little crazy. And SYRIZA signed Memorandums and signed them when it was government, so assuming that, in the end, it is in the interest of the country, as did previous governments. So do not invoke the memorials as if you had no past. You've got a past and he's after you. SYRIZA, not only signed memos, but took us back several years in relation to the evolution that had occurred before your own government. From there on, in the case of IPTO in particular, if I understand well, you say that you did so because the memorials said so, otherwise you would not do so and 'go a provision now re-stated'. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u220	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u221	You said that IPTO was privatized because it was a Memorandumary obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u222	It didn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Skourlet, what's the point now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u224	But it's possible the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u225	Will you ask? Are you the lover? This is where the question can't even be interrupted. Are you interrupting? Is that correct? And you invoke the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u226	Or he doesn't know what's going on with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u227	Please, you are an old parliamentarian and you know it. Minister, have you finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u228	No, I want to see some evidence about what he mentioned. A strategic investor was introduced to IPTO in 2017. Well, it's done. Isn't that a form of privatisation? That's what I'm talking about. I don't understand why you're protesting. So, I say, if you think that this was a Memorandum obligation and otherwise it was wrong, should you not have done so or should you have asked that this decision be overturned? I'm not saying it, you said it. From there on, you referred to a number of issues more specifically about the company's establishment plan and the salaries of managerial staff. You asked what study showed that enlargement must take place and a reduction must be made. What study shows that a reduction is to be made?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u229	Previous management.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u230	Let's see her and talk about it. I didn't see such a study. Nor do you invoke a study that leads to the opposite conclusion in your question. You ask me by asking a question which is based on a case that is not the case, that there should be a reduction. How does that turn out?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u231	Who said it's a reduction, Mr. Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u232	You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u233	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u234	You said that we were making an increase while there should be a reduction. I didn't say it, you said it. And what study did we do it with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u235	Why are you making an increase, I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u236	So I ask you, too, and I answer: What study do you say that there was to be a reduction? There can be no double standards in these things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u237	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u238	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u239	When you ask a basic case, this basic case also applies to your own questions. When you have to increase with some study and the reduction, which you consider necessary, must be documented by a study. Unless you say so, you think this automatically makes this necessity given. On the question of the salaries of staff in positions of responsibility, I would remind you that, as far as wages have been paid, they were given on the basis of Law 4548/2018. This law was passed on to SYRIZA. This law applies in the case of the salaries of directors. As far as I know, there has been no excess of the law. If it's done, say it specifically and report it. As far as I know, however, this law is also applied on the basis of this law, the wage levels of directors' salaries have been determined. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, too, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-22-S1-commons.u241	With the consent of the House at 13.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday, 13 January 2021 at 9 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions; b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you and your families a good Christmas and a happy new year! Be well!
