ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the meeting the Greek Parliament owes an honorable mention to the memory of a doctor who, unfortunately, lost his life. The cardiologist Yiannis Mitropoulos fell victim to the front line of the battle against the coronary. He paid the price of his personal and professional conscientiousness, offering his services to the Health Service of the Parliament. His human presence and scientific offering for so many years has caused even greater grief to all those who knew him about his ungodly ending. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Such losses - and unfortunately, they are not the only one - force us to bend our heads in front of the enormous effort and offer of medical and nursing personnel throughout the country in these difficult times. The Greek Parliament, like all its staff, expresses its sincere condolences to his family. I would ask the House to keep a minute's silence in its memory. [[This is a minute's silence.]] His memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the following: The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the Parliament presents its report: (a) in the Draft Budget for Parliament, for the financial year 2021, (b) in the Report on the Expenditure of the Parliament, for the financial year 2019 and in the Annex thereto (Report 2019 of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and for the Republic). The Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy tabled a draft law on 13-11-2020: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding in the Agriculture between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Kuwait". The Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign, Education and Religious Affairs, Justice and State submitted a draft law on 13-11-2020: "Following the Loss of Advisory Services Convention - Strategic Planning and Action for Agriculture and the Transformation of Countryside (SPARTA) between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the following questions: In his letter the Secretary of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: The number 122/5-11-2020, 127/6-11-2020, 128/7-11-2020 and 147/9-11-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos. The question under number 146/9-11-20 will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Niki Kerameos. The question under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Question No 120/2-11-2020, 126-11-2020, 140/9-11-2020, 144/9-11-2020 and 145/9-11-2020, and Question No 147/44/6-10-2020, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis. The fourth, with number 136-9-11-2020, top-circuit question, by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Digital exception of hunting from quarantine", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. And we're entering the first question. It is the third with number 146/9-11-2020 in the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Extra distance teaching and technical equipment for all students for equal access to education". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Niki Kerameos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our question is, of course, about distance teaching, but the length of time that separates us, Minister, from this year's polytechnic celebration is only a few hours. And because I have before me the Minister of Education, and since education was one of the slogans of the polytechnics heroic riot, there has to be a little comment here. Moreover, the facts are dense, because the New Democracy Government in its premiere of canceling this year's Polytechnic celebration proceeded to an unacceptable, confiscated and authoritarian ban on meetings of more than three people perpetrated, please, the territory. It is twice the goal of your government: First, to prevent the racing, the heroic message of the Polytechnics from reaching everywhere this year and to be heard as loudly as possible outside the American Embassy. But, to prevent this message from being heard this year, you won't make it any more than you do. Your second aim is to de-orientate from the enormous responsibilities of your government regarding the management of the pandemic which leads to the collapse of the public health system - because that is what we are now living in - and in the daily record of deaths and cases. We invite you even now: Take protection measures for workplaces, for public transport, for structures for social, health and welfare, for nursing homes and let what you think about the Polytechnic. The Polytechnic will be honoured as it should be, with those who must and should, of course, and as he deserves. So the only thing left in your government, Minister, is to get back - you have the time to do it - this unconscious anti-constitutional decision of yours. It calls on you to do the same as the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, because nothing else can be tolerated. As far as our question of distance teaching is concerned, the necessary conditions must of course be met to implement this telematic education, namely, to help pupils in the present conditions of the pandemic. But you know, Minister, there are thousands of families of people's families living with stress and anxiety in ensuring that their children are able to participate in the technology they need - I am talking about tablets, laptops, Internet access - so that they can participate. You know very well - after all, by your own announcement, the Ministry, you admit - that two hundred and fifty thousand children in the first phase of television in the spring. Let us not forget the anxiety of teachers themselves about the implementation of telecommunications because of their lack of training and their lack of preparation, because of their government policy, and they are well known - and we live with them every day, teachers and parents and children - the problems of the pan-Hellenic school network.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u4	I shall conclude, Madam President. We ask you: What will you do to ensure equal access to all pupils - I repeat, all students - in distance courses, free of charge from the state of all the means they need, both in terms of technology and infrastructure? In other words, to ensure the public character and to ensure the public and free nature of laboratory telecommunications, to deal with the problems with the absence of pupils who do not have the ability to provide tele­vision. So, what are you going to do about all this and to upgrade - at some point this has to be done - the entire Greek school network?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would ask you to try to keep time, at least in your question, so that we can get a little more time in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u6	I have fallen victim to news, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u7	I get it, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the question. Before entering the essence of the answer, let me make a reference to what you said, because you referred to the Polytechnic celebration. Mr Delia, we did not celebrate in the usual way on 25 March, nor on 28 October. When our country has seventy dead, when it has so many tubers, when it is experiencing this unprecedented health crisis, a crisis that is unprecedented for the whole world, we can very well honour our history - and we honour it - but we must adapt to conditions and that is why this decision has been adopted. And in our schools it is still planned that tomorrow online the Polytechnic will be celebrated, as appropriate. We are therefore honoured, but we honour in a way adapted to the exceptional circumstances experienced by our country. I'm coming to your question. You referred to infrastructure and equipment. I'll answer you right away. Digital infrastructure: Unlike the abandonment of previous years, the last eight months have become very big steps in public digital infrastructure. I start with the whole-Hellenic school network, which when we took over, Mr. Colleague, the country's leadership could at the same time accommodate only five hundred users in teleconferences. That was, like, five hundred users at the same time. Our Government has guaranteed the funding of the entire school network by the Public Investment Program for 2021 and 2022, with a budget increase of more than 30% over the previous years, which now allows the PPP, in the Pan-Hellenic School Network, to have its technical teams properly staffed. Secondly, it reordered resources and optimised individual procedures, according to the new data resulting from the change in use of the Internet, due to the suspension of schools' operation and a vertical increase in the use of distance learning services. Thirdly, to finance, in particular, we have taken care to include a project of EUR 3 billion in the ESRB for the years 2021 to 2023, a funding that was finalised by 2016. Fourthly, as far as the access of schools to fast networks, together with the Ministries of Education and Religion and Digital Governance, in the past year we have been upgrading seven thousand schools from ADSL to VDSL, while about a thousand five hundred schools have fibre and we are moving towards the installation of fibre optics in about four thousand other schools on the ground. Sixth, we have ensured a free telecommunications platform for the whole education community in the country. This service is constantly upgraded to optimise performance. I'll be on the equipment. As Ministry, we ensured for our country's school units additional equipment that exceeds ninety thousand portable devices. Mr. Delis, when we took the lead, portable devices in our country's schools were a total of four thousand five hundred. We made sure to reach ninety thousand. We are talking about an increase of 2000%. This is the increase in the country's portable devices. This increase has also been made through European ESDP funds. I take this opportunity to respond to what I hear, that we did not make use of European funds. Of course, we made use of them too early in the spring, in order to strengthen infrastructure in our schools. But, of course, private sector assistance was valuable here with over twenty - five thousand devices coming from donations. This equipment is the property of our schools and is available from the managers to students and teachers who need, on the basis of criteria such as low income, the unemployment of parents and guardians, the status of a member of a single parent, multitude, a third family, or orphan family. The distribution also took into account social criteria. We started from regions with low per capita GDP, difficult regions, special education and education schools, vocational training and, of course, it has been taken into account and how much equipment these schools already had. Secondly, we have ensured that even if someone does not have access to internet connections, even if he does not have a computer, if he does not have a smart phone, he can even connect to his digital class via a bourgeois phone. Thirdly, we have ensured free use of data (data) for anyone connected on the platforms with which the Ministry for Television cooperates, so that no one stays behind. I shall end, Madam President, by saying this: our aim, Mr President, is not the permanentization of telecommunications and we have distributed it on several occasions. There is nothing, in our view, that can replace living education. Our aim is, therefore, to respond to the maximum extent to an extraordinary treaty, by facilitating those who really need it in all these ways: with free data, with emergency equipment, with multiple alternatives and solutions. I shall return to my denunciation, Mr Colleague, on the training and the other points you have raised in your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u9	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, we want to remind the Minister, the Government, but also those who currently come out on the channels and the radios and say that there were no events in the previous anniversaries, the grand event of the Day which took place outside Parliament with the most exemplary respect of health rules. This image made the round of the world. Events took place on the 28th of October in schools, schools, neighborhoods and various other places. Only our party did enough for this anniversary. Therefore, it can - and will, of course - be done - by observing all health rules and tomorrow's Polytechnic event. As regards the question: is the Minister still arousing a situation which - I beg your pardon - is not overshadowed by anything? Even today, so many days after the start of tele­vision, there are serious problems throughout the country. That's what we learn. I imagine you know them too. You said tele-education wasn't everything. We will agree that telecommunications is a substitute for education, and under no circumstances can it, of course, replace living teaching. The most appropriate solution is therefore - and it may be - the open schools, Minister, with all the necessary protection measures, of course, with all those, that is, the protection measures that your Government has refused to take and has allowed a whole period of time to be untapped since last March. This time I would remind you that it was won with the Greek people's responsible attitude, that is, time that was valuable, who was sacrificed, without a second word, on the altar of the profits of the tourist capital, the airlines and business groups. The tragic results of this management by your government are now being seen. What are the measures you had to take and you didn't take them? You know them very well. The teachers asked you to do so, the parents asked you to do so, but, above all, Minister, you were asked by the students themselves for their multi-day struggle, the hoper. Thousands of students throughout the country asked for more rooms not to be more than 15 students in the classroom, more teachers, more cleaners and, of course, continuous stalking of the coronary in schools with continuous, repeated, free test, but for both parents and teachers and for students. Of course, none of this has been done and you do not even now mean to do it. And, furthermore, you did an unacceptable demonstration of force by hitting with a maniac student movement and dragging into detentions of up to fourteen years old. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And you come back now and you're reopening schools, you who slandered the students that they want schools closed. You confess, in other words, the failure of your own policy that was spreading until yesterday that schools are safe and that the coronary is not spreading in schools, while the schools closed one after the other and the departments are closed the same. Therefore, neither the second Lockdown nor the second closing of the schools was written out of our destiny, nor was it inevitable. It is an exclusive task of the government, no matter how much you load it all into individual responsibility, trying to hide your own heavy responsibilities for the intact health system and for the health bombs of workplaces and public transport. It is known that this tactic in telecommunications, that is, its inadmissible function, actually rises even greater in the class barriers to knowledge, since not everyone has the same access to it and of course sets the ground to intercede with various donors from here and there, in many and various ways within schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down slowly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u12	I shall end, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. But even this tele-instrument still has problems. Therefore, every effort you make to vomit the situation, probably, has no basis. Finally, so many millions of people hear that they are spent on the technological and digital upgrading of the Greek public school. Couldn't a sum be more of this to upgrade the Greek school network to get all students access? The question is direct, Minister. Do all students currently have equal access to telecommunications? You know the answer very well. And, of course, that is your responsibility, to secure it. Does everyone have a good Internet connection? Does everyone have a laptop? And don't tell me that he'll be sitting there for seven hours with his fixed-track acoustic phone attending tele-television.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Colleague, please complete. You've been over time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u14	I'm closing, Madam President. I repeat, Minister, that you have the responsibility of now covering telematics, so that it applies equally to all the children of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all for open schools. Mr Delis, I would remind you that, when we opened the schools at the end of May - early June, I did not see you supporting very strongly the opening at that time and I remember in general that there was a very great deal of concern for society towards the opening up. Now, because you have raised the decision: it was a very difficult decision, I confess. It was a difficult government decision as to whether they should be closed down in schools. Why? Because the reality is that epidemiological data showed that there was no tendency to spread the virus within schools, but there is a very large mobility around the operation of schools. I will tell you that when our schools are open, there are over 2.3 million people moving every day. So - and this is what the Minister knows very well, obviously much better than we are - the issue at the moment is a reduction in overall mobility, because mobility feeds the virus. That was therefore the objective and not the schools themselves, but we should all contribute together to reduce mobility. I now come to the individual issues that you have mentioned and which you have raised in your timely question. You say in particular, for non-training of teachers in distance education. I reply to you, Mr Delis, as follows: In cooperation with the Institute for Education Policy, the following has been done: First of all, since summer, online lessons are open, MOOCs, for the rapid training of primary and secondary education teachers in the methodology of distance school education. The IPA, in cooperation with the Greek Open University and the Aegean University, has created two training programs, which have already attended a significant number of teachers. Secondly, a guide was drawn up to design distance courses, in which the basic principles to be followed about how distance learning can be made more effective. Thirdly, in cooperation with the European School Network, the special educational program "Learn Digital, teach Digital", a massive, open online course aimed at teachers, with the aim of reinvigorating the more efficient use of distance learning technology. Fourthly, an integrated rapid training programme of more than EUR 2 million has been launched for all teachers in order to strengthen the training of teachers even further. Detailed instructions have been sent since the beginning of the year, which are concentrated on the special Mathinoumeasfaleis.gov.gr. And because, Mr Delis, in your question you say about the compulsoryity of distance education, I would like to say to you: we are now in a new normality. As I said before, there is nothing that can replace living teaching. But, in the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing, education must move on even online. So matter goes on, and it obviously goes on and tele-telecommunications is compulsory. Mr. Delia, there are problems, arrhythmias exist. Here we are to improve them, here we are to solve technical problems, here we are to answer the questions. But what is the reality? The reality is, Mr Delis, that public digital infrastructure was abandoned, nod digital equipment and training in digital skills absent. What did we do? We have created networks, built up infrastructure, secured telematics platforms for the whole educational community, exploited EU funds to provide equipment to our schools, our students, our teachers. We have involved individuals and thank them very much for their donations to products, services, equipment. We created the educational television, which enters every elementary schoolchildren's house. We built special websites with pooled all the information, which is available for everyone and we constantly train our teachers. Are there any arrhythmias? Of course there are. But we are here to resolve them, we are here to continuously improve the solutions, we are here to answer questions, we are here to support our teachers in every step. But the reality is, Mr Delis, that we have passed through lifelong education in universal telecommunications, and that is a project that is credited to our teachers. And because you asked me what the reality is today, I will tell you, Mr Deli, that the reality is that, for example, in high school and high school, where television has normally started, we have forty thousand sections a day that corresponds to seven hundred thousand participants. That's the reality. And - I say it again - this reality, this universal education project is credited to our teachers. We must be grateful for the teachers and teachers of education who have been so enthusiastic in this great struggle for one: as long as our schools are closed down, we must all ensure that the process of education continues, as unprecedentedly as possible. The pandemic must not in any way stand in the way of the learning process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we must keep our time so that we do not get out of our programme completely. We continue with our first question under No 126-11-2020 of the First Circuit of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Ioannina - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on "Direct health shielding of the Law of Ioannina". The timely question by Mrs. Jufi will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. My colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Our session today, unfortunately, began with the submission of honor to the loss of a health fighter, by the staff of the Parliament, who fell at a time of battle. And I think that, with the same turbulence and sincereness, we should also face the losses of more than a thousand people who have now lost their lives, their relatives, and, I would say, unfortunately, the very great increase in the mortality observed in recent days and the number of permeated people. Therefore, with respect to this very difficult situation, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for Health the question, more specifically, about the Law of Ioannina. And in the past I have asked you about what the government is doing about the epidemiological situation in the region and I would like honest answers, but mainly commitments and actions. Yanna has a university, a general hospital and a civil-type health centre and they were among the prefectures that first entered the'red', but - of course - with the delay both the general hospital and the city health centre, formerly IKA, joined this battle. We have told you that in time you should use all the infrastructure to filter the incidents and not be charged with the reference hospital, which is the university. You didn't hear us. You have delayed the proclamation of permanent appointments for about a year and a half. It was appropriate that you kept the call in the drawer because you did not have the political will to strengthen the system with permanent staff. This reluctance resulted in all the Ioannina units being strengthened, almost exclusively with medical assistants and the only specialist doctors are from our old 2018 announcements with the assistance of the doctors of the six TOMY which the SYRIZA government founded and served. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, the operation of the large hospital, the fourth wing of the university hospital with sixty new beds and sixteen used at the moment as IF beds for the pandemic, was a hub addition that New Democracy had strongly criticised from the position of the opposition officer. So I say: what would the situation be today if this important effort had not been made, given that there are no private nurses and military hospitals in Epirus? Iannina, therefore, with great difficulty, has managed to respond. They opened up as - like four units of infection in the university hospital, with a shrinking of other clinical, and similarly, in the last week, another twenty-four units in the "Hatzicosta" in pre-existing infrastructure, which the SYRIZA government had put into operation after many years of inertia, and of course with a very serious coverage problem in the intensive hospitals, despite the activation that has taken place in the last few years, but with a major problem, Minister, not the number of beds, but their staff, which is ensured by constant movements of personnel from the prefecture hospitals. And, unfortunately, with your own choice of the last assignments you signed, you missed Epirus and the University Hospital and we have asked you a question on 22 October that you have not answered. Instead, just on November 11, following Alexis Tsipras' visit to Yannina, you were rushing to approve six positions for the staffing of the ITHs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u19	You've got to close up, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Madam President. The situation in the emergency departments is also marginal - there are complaints from the Association of Doctors of Epirus - and from the "Hatzikosta" Hospital. I conclude, Madam President, and thank you. The Prefecture of Ioannina continues to be in a difficult position with more than a hundred and fifty cases per 100 000 population and taking into account that the rest of the prefectures of Epirus are on the upward path and that the university hospital is also ministering to the serious incidents of Western Macedonia and the other northwest Greece ask you: What do you intend to do here and now for the sanitary immunity of the Ioannina Prefecture and the staffing of health structures with permanent and trained medical and nursing staff to serve the health needs of the region in a credible and critical manner? Is there a plan for effective traceability, activation of all public health structures, rural-type health centres and prefectural hospitals, as well as for the creation of a local regional coordination body to address health emergencies more correctly, which we have often recommended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat this, the time of the question is two minutes. There is a relative tolerance, however, for almost doubled and triple time is the possibility of other colleagues. I won't allow it any longer. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Jufi, it is a fact that we have said several times that the health system is being tested, such as all health systems, and we see what is happening outside Greece not only at a pan-European, but also at a global level. All systems have their limits and a lot has already gone beyond them. Powers aren't inexhaustible. That is what I think is perfectly understandable. As it is understandable that, despite the interventions, improvements, gaps, the distortions that the health system has had in recent years, so far we have achieved both in the first wave of pandemic management as well as now. And at the moment we are prepared, we are not helpless in the middle of a stronger wave, in order to deal with this as well successfully. We have moved from the first day that this pandemic began in action, so there is greater adequacy in resources that the pandemic system can use, more staff, more single beds, more intensive treatment beds. We received five hundred and fifty seven intensive beds, and from summer until now, in public hospitals alone, we have opened more than three hundred intensive beds. There is adequacy in personal protective equipment, adequacy in medical devices, further financial support of the health system, more diagnostic tests. The question is: could we do better? Of course we could, but let us not forget that in a very short time we have achieved a lot of things, and that seems to be demonstrated by the successful management of the pandemic so far. This is illustrated by the result you see today in the health system. The health system can withstand and stand. Mrs. Jufi, Ioannina Prefecture, as you rightly say, has been under great pressure from the pandemic. His sanitary structures, and in particular the two "Hatzikosta" and university hospitals, were under great pressure. They've endured, endure, and they'll endure, and it looks like it's the epidemic data. That was no accident. It was the result of an appropriate preparation and specific plan that was implemented. And let us not forget that we have been ahead of an unexpected exponential increase in cases, especially after mid-October, and in a very short period of time we have responded successfully. More specifically with regard to Yannina, the system has been strengthened in time in the area with subsidiary, medical, nursing, paramedical and others. For the University Hospital of Ioannina, one hundred and five recruits of nine medical, sixty - eight nurses and fifteen paramedical staff. For the ‘Hatzikosta’ Hospital, thirty-four recruitments of which four medical and thirty nursing staff were recruited. In addition, we extended the validity of all fixed-term staff contracts up to and including 30 October 2021 and with regard to the recruitment of permanent staff total of thirteen doctors, four for the ‘Hatzikostas’ Hospital and nine for the university, by two invitations. We have three notices under way this year, a comprehensive notice from the AACC, a new notice from the AACC and new notices coming in the next few days. A total of at least one thousand four hundred and twenty doctors in permanent posts will be on duty by the end of the year in the National Health System. We restructured the functions of health structures in order to be able to cope with coronary incidents in sufficient time. We developed beds for suspected and confirmed cases. At the University Hospital of Ioannina, eighty-nine single beds and sixteen intensive beds are available and at the Hatzicosta Hospital, thirty more two beds for simple coronary hospitality. The two Ioannina hospitals essentially interconnected their operation in the context of dealing with confirmed cases, following procedures for the hospitalisation of mild cases at the ‘Hatzikosta’ hospital and the heaviest at the university. This experience of dealing with a pandemic must be admitted to highlighting the weaknesses of the system. It is true that we must further strengthen our health structures, but without overlooking the very large steps taken in a short time. It is a privilege for Ioannina to operate two hospital units, one of which is a university. We will invest in these infrastructures. These infrastructures will be developed. To this end, I would also like to inform you that the Ministry of Health has approved the setting up of six organic positions of qualified ESS doctors for an intensive treatment unit and is to be included by the end of the year in a notice of permanent medical staff three additional positions of doctors in an intensive care unit for filling. So there is a plan for health shielding. There is a plan to strengthen and create new beds in intensive treatment units - but not only in ICUs, but also in other structures - and in the development of services which will help us successfully deal with the pandemic in the region, but, of course, after the end of this crisis, the health structures in the region of Epirus will be able to meet the demands of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Undersecretary, indeed the Law of Ioannina has for many years had an important effort in health care, so that the hospitals of Ioannina are very high in the consciousness of society. I mentioned introductory terms - and I do not want to say again - that a very serious effort has been made over the past period, which has enabled the university hospital, in particular, to open up the fourth wing, which offered sixty new beds and, above all, offered the sixteen beds which were previously for the cardiological unit and ΜΜΦ and which enabled them to be converted into CIVID beds and which are currently covered by patients. In fact, at the last minute, patients of the cardiological unit were transferred to recovery, because the needs were much larger in the wider area. So I stressed that, in a hospital like this, I would say with the Hatzikosta Hospital, which meets the needs of the whole of north-west Greece, it should not be delayed its aid with permanent staff, which you too are not questioned. Because the only permanent staff to come are from earlier notices, especially medical staff. Of course, there has been support for subsidiary staff, but this does not seem to be enough, especially for the training of intensive care units. I think it is a significant delay that you did not include in this notice and the university hospital. In any case, what we are waiting for at the moment is the rapid staffing of the positions which, as I said before, were actually called after a parliamentary question was tabled and after Alexis Tsipras' visit to Iannina. However, the needs are there. They're real. Already the management of the university hospital asks you to cover forty empty posts of permanent specialists and on August 28, ninety, a permanent posts of nurses and other staff created by the needs of pensions and departures and to approve credits for twelve other staff, which no one has yet undertaken a service. If someone puts in this one and the "haemorrhage" of the staff, about sixty to seventy people who are left out of special leave or exposure to a positive case - I mention the fact that he was forced to close the only section of nuclear medicine in the area with three doctors and the fact that the "Hatzista" Hospital just now issued a notice for subsidiary medical staff - he understands that the rhythms that have to be done should be too fast, because the needs are too great. There are also major issues in the delay in controlling health workers, which I have just started telling you that they had to close down a section - which should have been done already in the summer. Also, at the "Hatzikosta" Hospital until ten days ago, there was not even the possibility of quick tests for the selection of patients, and this is not the case for rural-type health centres. What I would like to urge you - and I would like you to respond to your dentistry - is what you will do to coordinate all the public health structures that need to be activated so that the region can respond to the very serious pandemic. It's not enough - and you're right about that - only hospitals. However, I do not see anything going on in this particular direction, which we have often suggested. Also, I don't understand exactly how the tracking takes place to stop the spread. What's the model exactly? There were data of an increased load of waste water. How have these been used to ensure that there is transparency in the data and that there is effective prevention? What are you going to do for the operation, for example, of structures...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u25	Your Honor, you have to close down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u26	I shall conclude, Madam President. This is the main problem in Yannina, where when patients enter quarantine or are on rehab, and no hospital needs to have corresponding rehabilitation or rehabilitation structures. We have also proposed to you a previous question the EGE building. What are you going to do in this direction? And in the end, will you give the possibility of costly tests by the EGE so that citizens, when they need it, can resort to this possibility and so that there is prevention, which is currently very critical? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Jufi, you could ask your question about everything you have developed in your dentistry, so that we too can be more prepared and give you clear answers. But I will really try to respond to the points you have raised. I thank you, first of all, for you knowing that the structures, at least in your area, in the Ioannina Prefecture, were strengthened during the pandemic with auxiliary staff and permanent recruitment, which are completed. And in new notices, more positions of medical staff will be launched. We have stressed that we have exceeded the seven thousand more recruits of ancillary staff during the pandemic, while the original design was two thousand recruitments. This shows that everything needed, whatever the need was for the National Health System, in order to deal with this pandemic, in time and in very short time we have been able to cover them. And we continue to do so, not only with subsidiary staff, but also with the permanent staff notices. I would also like to mention to you, because you are talking about a local regional coordination centre, that there is coordination at this time. There has always been, at ground level, both through health regions and, of course, through the National Health Business Centre, which is co-existent with the National Emergency Aid Centre, the EMCDDA - EMCDDA. And, of course, they are all involved in the management of this pandemic together, both the National Agency for Public Health and the Civil Protection. And because I am talking about Civil Protection, an important factor in the success of crisis management at the moment is the system of traceability and the procedures we follow in order to trace and investigate suspected and confirmed cases. We see that in other countries the number of cases stopped by tracing has gone so far. Traceing in our country is a tool that is effective and of course it really helps us locate and intervene whenever necessary. As far as the rapid tests are concerned, the Rapid Tests, all hospitals and health centers in the country have been given rapid tests so that by specific procedures we can have results of rapid tests of antigens. These checks will be increased over the next period, mainly in specific closed structures, health workers and the population. Let me remind you once again that we started with about eight hundred and fifty diagnostic tests at the beginning of the pandemic and we have on average exceeded twenty-five thousand tests a day. Several times we've approached all the thirty thousand tests. In any case, therefore, there is planning. There is a concrete plan, which is being implemented and we do everything possible to respond successfully to the battle of this pandemic. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u29	We move on to the second timely question under number 120/2-11-2020 first cycle of Corfu MP of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Health on "In the margins of Corfu in matters of health". The timely question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u30	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. Minister, I really understand at a difficult turning point experienced by our state, our homeland and your ministry, the difficulties it has and thank you for your presence here today. I also want to assure you that we as a Change Movement are vital to every effort at political level, if you wish, either of the people of the first line, medical and nursing staff, in the fight against this pandemic that has hit our homeland. I am here today, Minister, really not to gain impressions, if you like, or politically, but to give you some questions and some concerns that exist in Corfu's local society and I would like to believe that you will be able to give some answers. When we talk about Corfu, we are talking about Corfu, Paxos and the crossroads. We speak for a hundred and twenty to a hundred to thirty thousand permanent residents, who in the summer months are doubled, Mr. Undersecretary. So that's what I want to tell you, the hospital has a vacancy on its organogram a little more or less than 50%. So in this particular hospital with all the problems it has - and when we talk about problems, because we really want such times to tell the truth, we also talk about problems that are over a period of time and come from a very long time - the haemodynamic part is not working as a simple chamber, the neon unit is not working, there are arrhythmias and major problems in the artificial kidney unit with what this implies for a sensitive group - such as those of our fellow citizens - who use it. Nonetheless, the Corfu Hospital with protagonists, if you want, and your own intervention and administration, with whatever problems have been created with this administration, but also with doctors and nurses and all, the vast majority of Corfu's society and its institutions, have supported this effort against COVID and, today, perhaps to speak if not about the only one, but about one of the few regional hospitals that is a reference hospital, to treat patients with COVID. He's reached the hospital instead of five, today nine beds in the intensive. Also, a special infection unit has been established with twenty-five beds, without having put a doctor in the intensive care unit, without permanent staff in the Pulmonary Clinical, which has taken this weight on it, and in the Pathological Clinic. That is why the hospital, with all its efforts to support it, was given the opportunity a month ago with an amendment by colleagues from the rest of the islands of Istanbul, to deal with a problem that has been here a long time ago. So this problem is about the fact that there are invitations to hospitals on the islands that do not end up, they are barren, for the simple reason that these posts are not good for medical staff, they do not give them those stimuli to come to cover them. This possibility has been given by us in an amendment that we had brought in the summer and you did not accept for the specificities of private hospitals. Some of the Intergovernmental Conference colleagues have now given it to you. They were all majority colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Colleague, you have to ask your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u32	I shall conclude, Madam President. As a miracle in this amendment, they put all the Ionian Islands apart from Corfu. I shall then read the explanatory statement. All the explanatory statement comes to cover the needs and problems of Corfu Hospital and to a much greater extent, if you like. In this amendment, therefore, you did not include Corfu with what it implies for a large number of barren notices and barren places in our hospital. The question is: Do you intend to cover this error as quickly as possible in order to give hope to these people who are trying at Corfu Hospital, in Corfu society?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Biaghy, in fact this battle against pandemic we should all give it together, strengthen as much as we can the National Health System in order to respond to increased needs. And that is why I shall disagree with the title of your question "On the margins of health, for we are not going to leave any of our fellow citizens behind, no territory of the country, no matter where it needs to be strengthened, both in human and material resources and in financial resources, because during the pandemic and especially during the period of management of the first wave we have created a reserve, we have acquired knowledge and experience. This reserve will remain in the National Health System and, after the pandemic, this is very important because it will help us what we have built within a short time so that we can move faster on the reforms and the changes that the National Health System needs. Let me say that it is unfair to enter a process of comparing regions, municipalities and municipalities across the country with regard to structures operating within the limits, as well as to all the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u35	The same district... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u36	The coverage of the population, of course, is universal and equal throughout the country's length and width. In particular, it concerns the issue of fertile and problematic regions, which, as is quite rightly the case with your question, is all about the Ionian Islands. I have to remind you that for Corfu the areas of Agios Athanasios and Agios Markos are characterised as problematic and barren category B areas and the area of Ano Lefkimis is characterized as an infertile and problematic upper category. Therefore, Corfu is not an exception to the rule of fertile and problematic areas. I have to agree with you that the problems, shortcomings and gaps of the Hospital of Corfu are similar to those of the Hospital of Lefkada, Zakynthos and Kefalonias, despite the fact, as I said before, that every geographical area and population resident in Corfu has its own characteristics and needs. Therefore, in the context of reassessment at the ground level of the areas that need to be characterised as barren and problematic, we will also consider your proposal for the whole of Corfu. I would ask for your patience and very little time at the end of the year in which we will have brought it to debate - and you have also raised it, and I think it is an effort of all the previous governments - to propose a new framework of incentives for doctors and staff working in the health system so that they can work in the atrocious, remote and border regions and you in your prefecture - and in particular in the neighbouring islands you have big issues so that every citizen in the last part of the country feels that the state, the health system is next to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u38	Minister, someone would expect you to be more specific in your answer. And why am I saying that? I told you before - and we welcomed any attempts and steps taken at Corfu Hospital - that when we talk about the island of Corfu, you should bear in mind that we are talking about health immigrants. For the first time in Corfu, we are living something really unique. What? And then, if you would like, and the question asked by Mrs Jufi earlier, let me tell you. We see at Corfu Hospital that there are immigrant health workers on the other side, i.e. from Ioannina. Today they are hospitalized at Corfu Hospital four or five of our neighbors from across the coast. So these efforts, which have been made with a reference point, I will say, and the administration - I have no reason to leave it outside - but more so the doctors and nurses, you are not now coming to support it. And when we ask you to support them, we tell you the simplest thing that can be done. At the moment with the information we have, because, although we have asked for it, they did not give it to us - nor did the 6th Secretary of State give it to us - there are six, seven to eight positions of director of clinical and curator 1, which are barren. They're notices that didn't get good luck. These notices you have the possibility with another process much faster to bring it into progress. Imagine at Corfu Hospital with the cowardly steps it makes in such a difficult time to bring seven - eight such executives, high executives, with quality characteristics. And what are we telling you? Stop studying. The previous ones and the previous ones have been studying it for many years. You spent one night an amendment to the rest of the islands. That is not why you have done well, and that is why my colleagues have done well. You have done well, and you have approved it. However, the characteristics of the previous amendment are exactly the same as Corfu, Mr Secretary-General. They're exactly the same as Lefkada. It's exactly the same you and Kosani put in. Be careful - because there is never perfect crime - under the excuse of "Jan" you have also put Kosani! In any case, the reasons why you excluded Corfu cannot understand them. And what do we say? We say, at least, these barren notices as quickly as possible, but - on what condition? - provided that you've gone to an amendment for Corfu to go. And we're talking about the island of Corfu, we're talking about the capital city of Corfu, we're talking about the Hospital of Corfu, and not about Saint Mark, Mr. Undersecretary. I can do communications, too. Allow me. All our stress is for the Corfu Hospital, for the hospital I told you that it has taken two steps, day-to-day steps and we must quickly - quickly support them. Are you willing? Once again, you see me and I take off this agony, because the Corks are watching you right now. And what do they say? You put Lefkada - without confrontation - you put Kefalonia on all the Ionian islands and you didn't put Corfu! And you're asking there for more time for studying? Study what? Now it's the change. Now we give the real battle, if you want, both with the pandemic and with whatever it takes to the health structures of our island! Will you help, will you give me a hand of help? Beyond the theory, are we going to go to practice sometime? We proved it in practice. We supported these steps as a society. All the bodies supported them. At the moment there are three machines in Corfu, which can do the test. Some of these have already been done with donations from institutions and people. Help this situation in this direction, but also with works, not with words. He's sick of the people of Corfu. I told you earlier that permanent immigrants of health were the Corfiots. Permanently! Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Biagi, I've answered you. We are considering this and it is not only about how an area is characterised as a horrific or problematic, but also about an overall framework of incentives, which we have almost ready and said in previous meetings, within the framework of parliamentary control. I wish those proposals - because they are indeed targeted at the specific, integrated and adequate parties - to agree and vote for a common consensus. You said you'd accepted patients from across the coast. The National Health System, Mr. Biagi, is a single one. Right now, we're fighting a big battle. If necessary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u41	You don't understand! We salute it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u42	I thought you were responding to this because we see what is happening in other countries, who are hospitalizing our fellow people in corridors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u43	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u44	Go on, Minister. Mr Colleague, none of what you say in the Minutes is recorded. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u45	I am therefore pleased that there were fellow Members who criticised this decision by the Ministry of Health, in order to provide fellow citizens with other hospitals. That is why I would like to make it clear. It is very important - you said - that some steps have been taken - in your view - and others will be done in order to strengthen the health system. I tell you that this period is the great opportunity for the National Health System to overcome distortions and shortcomings of the past and indeed each citizen, on each side of the country, to enjoy the health services he needs on an equal footing. I repeat that we are looking at the overall framework of the incentives to be given to doctors in order to take a stand on health structures in the country and, of course, on an overall approach with the atrocious and problematic regions. You also know from your experience that several years ago they were designated areas as barren and problematic, and today they still remain problematic, while they should not be. So we need to see the whole map from the beginning and very soon, very soon, we will be able to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too, Minister. Next is the first with no. 140/9-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA Deputy Magnesia - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Volos Hospital under the suffocating pressure due to deficiencies, underfunding and inertia". The timely question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Kontozamanis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, as over the last few years I have tabled over ten parliamentary questions on the issues of "Achilopoulos" in the pandemic in the first wave and in the second wave, it is worth wondering that even today these questions remain almost unanswered at the level of action. At least, however, I recognise that you are coming to answer me and thank you very much for that. I think that on the basis of the instructions from both the Ministry and the 5th Health Region, you know that now at Volos Hospital, there is a new clinical response to the coronary. In this particular clinic, of course, no action has been taken to serve. Therefore, for the service of hospital patients with COVID, doctors are forced to move from other hospital clinics that are already understore. In particular, Minister, pathologists are being moved from the two Pathological Clinics of the hospital, which, of course, already have major shortcomings, working, as you know, with about half the staff from what is provided for in their establishment plan. From this infamous statement, Minister, the fourteen posts of specialist doctors for the Volos Hospital have been taken over by some - I think four in number - but, up to now, none of the pathologists from this notice, that is, none of the three pathologists who are intended to be in the midst of huge needs caused by this extraordinary health crisis. Also, effective support in the management of coronary cases cannot come for "Achilopoulos" or from health centers, as, as I have already pointed out to you by my recent question, Volos Health Center, which started in October the operation of the Coronovirus Valve-Control Control Centre, to carry out a weekly operational program, signed every month a transfer of general doctors from the other prefecture health centers, and only 10 COVID tests per day. Even with this last call by the three hundred doctors for the treatment of the coronary, a pathologist has been provided for the Volos Hospital for a month now, Minister, who has not taken over. So you realise that a tragic picture is being created of the day-to-day management of the growing cases in the Magnesia Prefecture. Therefore, the question is a simple one, if at last, Minister, you have not come here to reply to me in general terms, as a matter of priority, but to tell me specificly and with a commitment if you intend to take the necessary staffing, support and funding measures - not the drop-off - of Volos Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, and for keeping your time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mikopoulou, as you said in your introduction to your question, you have put a series of questions. Let me tell you that the topical questions have all been answered. The answers you have received have been very specific, giving the real picture of the situation in the health structures of the Magnesia Prefecture, nothing less, nothing more than the facts in their real dimension - after all, the figures cannot be disproved - which, of course, I must say have nothing to do with what you have said in your questions. Magnesia is in no way exposed to health, as with a lot of ease you tell us. In the context of strengthening the National Health System for the treatment of pandemic, hospitals, health centers and all the health structures of Thessaly and its prefectures have been strengthened respectively. In particular, in order to deal with the pandemic and the service of coronary patients, we have not calculated financial resources, human resources or other resources in order to have the result we have so far. We proceeded, satisfying all the needs, as set out by the administrations of health regions and the hospital. And that was in the case of Magnesia. Let me remind you that there were twenty-nine subsidized recruits for Volos Hospital. At the same time, we extended until 30 October 2021 the validity of these conventions. A significant number of the twenty-nine ancillary staff posts expired until the end of this year. With regard to permanent staff, in 2020, which I said in my previous reply to a question from your colleague, we have published three notices in February, July and September, where for Volos Hospital sixteen posts were announced for doctors of various specialties. As far as these positions are concerned, the five have already taken office, the three are for publication the appointment to the FEK and the remaining eight have been sent to the Ministry of Health's competent department for the completion of the procedure. In closing the chapter on 'Support to human resources', let me stress that we will cover any need for us, wherever and whenever we are asked, without spending. Our first priority is adequacy in human resources and this has been demonstrated in this pandemic management period. Mr. Micopula, you're referring, and with a lot of criticism, I'd say, to the creation of a Clinic Coronius at Volos Hospital. Of course, you failed to mention how, with which plan and plan, we created the appropriate conditions for the hospitalization of coronary patients. I would therefore inform you that we have transformed and reorganised the health structures, serving two important needs: the first need was for the smooth functioning of the National Health System and for citizens, even those who do not have a coronary, to continue receiving health services. The second need was to create a specific health framework for the provision of services exclusively for the treatment of coronary patients. The hospitalisation clinic of patients with coronary symptoms at the General Hospital of Volos is not a new clinic. There was a medical specialist and other staff responsible for the needs and needs of the pandemic, so that it could hospitalise confirmed and suspected incidents, where specifically confirmed cases constitute mildly unsymptomically symptom-symptom-free and for which monitoring is required for their evolution. This clinic is supported by permanent and subsidiary staff serving in the hospital and, if necessary, will be enhanced accordingly. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I should also like to mention to you, regarding the financing of the hospital, that we have taken all the necessary action in the midst of this pandemic wave to strengthen with both regular and exceptional funding of EUR 109,500 and EUR 86,000, respectively. Characteristics I will tell you that we approved the grant of EUR 1 000 000 by decision of the KESC on 30 October. In conclusion - and I thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance - I must also contradict your reference to the Volos Health Centre regarding the number of tests on the coronary. It is a lie that there is a maximum number of tests for coronary virus that can be carried out every day, not only in Volos, but throughout the territory. Any citizen who comes to the Volos Health Centre shall carry out the relevant examination and in any case without cost to the citizen himself. In fact, in order to be able to serve even more citizens in the next few days, it will also be placed at the entrance of the house suitable for taking samples of suspected incidents. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u50	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I think that you should consult again the people who provide you with the information, but also these figures, because the figures we are listed have nothing to do with them, nor do they reflect reality, not mine, but the reality of the health workers of Achilopoulos, Volos Hospital and health centres. Therefore, see again the numbers or, if you want, come and get your own image to see and see for yourself how "Achiloli" Hospital works in everyday life. And here, Minister, there is this tragic: a hospital and citizens are witnessing a ping pong of announcements, such as these announcements you have made today and the figures you quote. However, these announcements have a common denominator: they always leave out of plan, out of design, the "Achiloli" Hospital. So how do you explain, Minister, that while an entire city calls out for its health isolation, in all the decisions, but also in all the plans that you made with the 5th Health Region the Volos Hospital is always the ‘poor relative’? He's the commander of the 5th Health Region, Mr. Seretis, not even his secretary can find him! He can't even be found on the phone! Even the Governor of Thessaly, Mr. Agastos - I imagine you are following the news - accused the Governor of the 5th Health Region of inadequacy in the management of public health issues in Thessaly. Even your colleague, Mr. Kikilis, described the 5th Health Region as the most weak health region in relation to the management and management of the pandemic. Even your Members, Mr Ministers, the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, are criticising, exercising parliamentary control, asking questions about the management you are managing. And if they don't ask questions, they run from morning till night to night to find sponsorships if they can save the situation. And I'm not saying, Minister, donations are good, but Volos has made them a success. We have shown them - the most serious one - in the main means of strengthening public health structures. You're Minister, Mr. Contozamani. Do you honour the state's basic obligations to be substituted by company donations? To come a little bit to the reality of everyday life, Minister, because you told me that I was lying and you kept denying me to every timely question we ask together. You know very well that now the Pathological Clinics are confused at the "Achilopoulos" Hospital. Those doctors who do not undertake service in the COVID Clinic have now been transferred to the ground floor. Do you know what they're up against? They are three pathologists, who must look about thirty - five sick from the First and Second Pathological Clinics and have to help the CIVID Clinic, which today has over seventy people who are hospitalized! You're telling me about the proclamation - which you reopened, in fact, is not new - that five doctors came. Where are the pathologists, who are first line specialists, to manage the situation from the pandemic? You're telling me about the three hundred specialist doctors calling to deal with COVID. Only one predicts! Didn't you have the time, all this time, to identify these real needs in the hospital, so that you could get more pathologists to manage this emergency situation? You know what's going on? If you take a walk from "Akilopoulos" Hospital, you will see on the ground floor the doctors who alert to be stacked in a room, you will see people who have other conditions of despair because, in essence, clinics are now partially suspended. You will see, in other words, things that run out of any imagination. So don't blame me for quoting false evidence. The picture in everyday life is tragic. The nurses, doctors, but also the citizens of Volos are on the verge of nervous breakdown. Get serious, finally! We put back on the first wave. We have tried with constructive opposition, with proposals, to raise central issues for you. And I personally tried to raise the issues of Magnesia. You have done nothing at all about all this! Nothing at all! Be serious, because so far history has been written in the name of the name, Minister! And that name doesn't interest you! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Micopulus, you must be serious, because you have not realised that we are at war right now. Of course, the conditions in the health and health systems in the country are not ideal. Every day, doctors, nurses, other paramedical staff give a huge battle to keep the National Health System upright and serve all our fellow citizens. We were clear about the actions we have taken. We are strengthening - and we will continue to strengthen - the health structures of the country and of the Volos Hospital. I will repeat once again that the reserve we have created - I repeat, the conditions are not ideal at the moment, but we must as much as we can strengthen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u54	You said I was lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u55	I told you about the numbers you're talking about. Every time you come here to the questions and do not give us the real picture of health structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u56	Where am I lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u57	I've answered your question. The numbers are relentless. If you want, there are also decisions in "DICAGE" on both the financial support to the health system and hospitals in Greece, as well as the support to medical staff in permanent posts and ancillary staff. From that point on, the battle is day after day, we don't stop, whatever we need to do for Volos Hospital, we'll do it. And for primary health care structures, we are trying to serve all our fellow citizens. It is important that health centres, primary health care, are at the forefront of dealing with the pandemic and our fellow citizens can come to assess the incident and carry out diagnostic tests. It is important that the National Health System, despite the pressures it is currently under, stands up and will continue to stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too, Minister. The second, with number 145/9-11-2020, is a topical question by the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The attraction of scientists to the ESS for the reversal of Brain Drain" will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, be patient, because I understand, beyond the disagreements, that you are here and at the Ministry, and that is important, that the ministers at least come and answer questions. I would like to start with a nice spot of the German Government today - I think the German EGE, if I am not mistaken - where an elderly person says: 'Become a hero by simply staying on your couch'. He tried through this procedure - and I think we can understand it - to stress to a very positive extent that, at the moment, in this battle, doctors are diseased, often by those doctors - beyond the criticism of the government and from us whether they were all right or not - and to be able to hire what hospitals and open up, it is very difficult to deal with this great war. So one thing that is to all of us is that we take from our home seriously for the benefit of ourselves. I mean, many doctors, our fellow Members, give battle and one of them, forty-two years, like the doctor here, Yannis Metropoulou, lost their lives. I would like to say warmly condolences to their families, and I hope the other doctors can do so. Minister, we are talking about incentives, and today I am here to help in a different way, with ideas, the national health system. I told you another time, and now I tell you: There are people abroad who left Greece as professors, assistant university teachers and want to go back to Greece. [[At this point the end of Mr V' Vice-President's speaking time bell is ringing.]] Madam President, just a minute. Greece reserves the possibility: Turn back and become curator II. That is to say, a professor, a deputy university professor, an assistant or anyone else in Greece who has gone abroad, to turn back and make his papers on the National Health System and become curator II. I think, Minister, it's completely unfair. And if you want to give an incentive now that is the time to turn too many doctors into Greece, which we need, you have to motivate them. That's why in my denture so that I don't waste time, I'll tell you in detail my proposal, which I'm sure you've read.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Constantinople, thank you for the question. It is very important, because I said before that the pandemic taught us a lot, we were able to gain more knowledge, more experience in how we manage situations and I think that the deposit that has been created must form the basis so that once we have overcome this pandemic, I said it before - we can speed up, speed up the reforms that the health system needs. One of the actions we need to take from now - there is no need to end the pandemic - is to bring all these Greek citizens who have left and want to return - I will agree with what you have said - and not just doctors, all the Greeks who of course work abroad in various specialities. It is an issue that concerns us and has particular substance and value. It is also a question of assessing our potential in the National Health System, because very good doctors should be able to come to good places in the National Health System. Of course, we need not only directors or coordinators, but we also need curators II, we need soldiers, not only generals. Scientists of the university community who want to join. Surely, as you refer to your question, they will upgrade with their presence the National Health System. The framework of integration not only of academics, but also of doctors who are highly qualified and who come from abroad, should be assessed at a depth. That is why I am telling you that the proposal you refer to in your question, and possibly, as you said, you will develop in your dentistry, is interesting. We hear it, and of course, we can assess it. For these doctors, after you're mentioned, I'm going to say in my denture, because I'm going to come back with a sentence, too. However, in any case, the evaluation and integration of these doctors from abroad into the National Health System should be carried out within a specific context, where other factors will be taken into account, so that inequality and injustice are not created. That is why I repeat that the needs are great in the National Health System and in the management positions and, of course, in the positions of curator I and curator II. This is a serious parameter that we cannot ignore. We must not, however, make it capable of being dissuasive in cases of university background scientists who want to join the ERC. We therefore need to call on these positions, we need to have a specific assessment framework for these doctors, so that they can join the health system, because we need them. For our part, as a state, we define the framework, we set incentives and rules so that every doctor can find the position that he really deserves, and he deserves the system, to be productive and effective in the performance of his duties. Let me go and talk - you give me the opportunity with your question - a little further. What's going on in the health system right now? You're a doctor and you know it. Many posts of qualified doctors are empty and why? Because before a doctor even completes his specialty in Greece, he has left abroad for specialty. The Greek state is studying the Greek youth and the majority of them leave abroad in order to continue their career or many times qualified doctors end their specialty here and continue their career abroad. So we have to approach it and look at it as a whole. We need prestige scientists in the National Health System. I will repeat once again that the National Health System has already completed its pension years since 1983. We are in front of a large wave of fleeing not only medical staff but also other staff from the National Health System, and we must enable young doctors, young scientists to stay in the country, join the National Health System and offer their services in their country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, today my question may be a question which is not a question of hard criticism. Do you know why? Thank God it happened and we postponed it for a week. We, at PASOK, at the Change Movement, have a standing tactic. We believe that splitting, polarization is not helping anywhere. We believe that in this health crisis, whether it is 28 October, whether it is Easter or Polytechnic, we honour each other under these circumstances, under the difficult circumstances of a war, in a way which, first of all, honors the fighters, but also protects the citizens. That is why I am linking it to today's motives and counter-incentives, because the National Health System is a great reform for the Greek people, as you said - from Arkas - in 1981 by the PASOK government, from Friday to August and George Gennimatas. And, in any case, it is something that needs to be changed and reformed for the benefit of the citizens, the region and the centre. What I want to say today - and of course it is about the Ministry of Health - is that I believe in changing the page that we all want to do for the country together, I believe that all parties want that. I believe that these people, the doctors, should come back to this particular sector, who have given them, have really studied them the country, their parents, have great potential and competence. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of Mr. V Vice-President hits the warning bell.]] I have a specific example, which is why I told you. There is one - and I want you to hear it, Madam President - a deputy professor who resigned, was in Athens, and from Greece he went abroad. He was a deputy professor. That man's gone. This man, if he goes to an ERC clinic, creates security first of all for both young and curators II. And he's back, he made his paperwork, and he's curator II. What do I say, Minister? And I think that, if we agree, we will also have an amendment to that. We say: Deputy professors, assistants, with the criteria, automatically occupy a graduation position of the ESS director. For there to be stability in their work in the ERC. In these cases they will make use of this procedure, so that there is no problem for them to claim an vacant position of a scientifically responsible department, which they serve before five years of service of the ERC. Why do we say that? In fact, on the one hand, you respect him and you give him something, which he really deserves, but on the other hand, you do not cause a problem within the workplace. Minister, you know, in this area - and I believe you will also want to help - the next time we will also bring an amendment which will also incorporate additional incentives for others, not only substitute teachers who are already or are going to come, but other fellow doctors who want to come from abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Constantinople, I think we don't disagree. And it is very important, in fact, that we finally be able to achieve all this very good human resource that has left the country back. I told you that we are looking at your proposal, we are evaluating it and we are seeing it. You know, too, the state of the National Health System today, we have generals and we don't have soldiers. What do I mean? We have managers in the National Health System and we don't have bishops. The continuing education and knowledge transfer are therefore also lost. We should therefore also consider a little outside the procedures for filling these posts, as they so far are. I would also think in this case that you would also like to introduce as an amendment, why couldn't such doctors give them the opportunity to come to the National Health System by concluding contracts and join the corresponding positions with those that have abroad, by means of a specific evaluation procedure? And, of course, after the end of the contract, we should reassess them and permanently re-evaluate them. And that's a good message to all the doctors of the National Health System, because we're used to getting to the headmaster's place over the years. The aim of a health system is to provide the best health services for the whole population. What does that mean? We should have the best doctors. So to have the best doctors we must train them properly, we must train them and constantly retrain them, and of course we must evaluate them. The concept of evaluation is not of the importance of punishment, but of the importance of improvement, so that we can actually have the best doctors in the country and the best health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the third, with number 144/9-11-2020, a topical question by the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Association of government failure of the hospitals of Larissa". The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will answer. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, after the celebrations of May following the first wave of pandemic, we had a reassurance from the government and from the Ministry of Health for at least five months, a reassurance which was indeed criminal. Larissa, whom I represent, unfortunately is one of the prefectures that is a champion in cases. I listened carefully to you in answers you gave for both the Ioannina Law and the Magnesia Law. I wonder, Minister! You do not admit your mistakes even today. You said we didn't move reality properly. You will allow me to convey the reality to you, as President Thessaly has captured it in his statements. He said: “Since May the Region of Thessaly had given 20 million euros to the hospitals of Thessaly to prepare for them. How ready is it today? What has the commander of the 5th Health Region done? What did the hospitals do? We gave 12 million euros for two hundred fifty-five recruits. Where did these hires go? Why, at the moment, do we have a shortage of doctors and ICUs?" And it ends: "Responsibility for all of this lies with the hospital administrations, obviously." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This reality, Minister, is it virtual or true? It is not taken by the opposition, which you are accusing of for disaster and populism, but by the elected district minister. After that, you ask: Have you included how many projects via NSRF to supply equipment to the hospitals in Larissa? How much money has been approved for recruiting staff in Larissa's hospitals? Is there or is there any and where does the Ministry of Health's operational plan consist of for a possible increase in cases in Larissa? That's right, Minister, be seated. Where is the operational plan, which proved not to exist until last week? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u68	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kokalis, let me begin by saying that none of the trumpkinos existed by the government on the basis of the well-defined approach to the first phase of the pandemic. When the ban was lifted, the government first said that we did not finish, we keep doing so and that the pandemic is here. You are also accusing us of complacentness, which is also not the case, because we have planned from the first day of the pandemic, bearing in mind the worst scenario. From the first day of the pandemic we have taken steps to strengthen and shield the National Health System and stand up to deal with any adverse development of the disease. Reality is one. In fact, there was relief after the end of the first ban because we saved the worst because the health system did not touch'red lines' and did not exceed its limits. And let me say it was a human reaction. I am sorry why these human reactions you see them as the occasion of political criticism and a field of confrontation, when you want to speak of national consensus and consensus, which is not achieved unilaterally. Of course the government is the first to pursue this. The fight is common. We all have to beat the coroner together. Your questions about the issues that concern the Thessaly Region, I am neither competent to comment, nor much more to solve, let me say. All I have to say is that the Ministry of Health and its supervised bodies must cooperate with the other ministries and public bodies whenever conditions so require. That's something that's always happened, it's done today and it's done. With regard to the questions you have raised, let me say: Equipment projects and recruitment of staff for the hospitals in Larissa joining the Thessaly Region in the 2014-2020 ESDP programme. The Region of Thessaly has been integrated into the 2014-2020 programme of equipment and recruitment of staff. As far as recruitment through the NRP is concerned, the funds have been used as a whole, since in the NRP for Thessaly there are two hundred people, and our service has already completed two hundred and ninety-four recruitments. This means that our service expects to join the NSRP 90 more people. With regard to the programs included in the region of Thessaly for the supply of medical devices, it is noted that in the context of the call with code 090 entitled ‘Strengthening health services in the region of Thessaly to address the risks of the epidemic of COVID -19 and to improve the access of the population to robust health services’, hospitals of the 5th Health Region submitted in due course before the end of the submission of the proposals to the specific management service of the operational programme of Thessaly, targeted proposals to be assessed for accession. The final proposals for a total budget of 8.5m euros were formulated following a mapping of the needs and consultations of the commander of the 5th Health Region with the managers of the hospitals following recommendations from the institutions. In order to ensure more funds and to avoid risk the same type of procurement as a product of parallel financial instruments, parameters such as existing donations and exceptional grants have been taken into account. The current procedure stipulates that in order for hospitals to proceed with the procurement process via the NRP, the decision to join the Special Region Management Agency, signed by the Regional Manager, is prerequisite. With regard to the integrations and looking at the e-mail address of the specific management service of the operational programme, it can therefore be pointed out that, as regards the University General Hospital of Larissa, which is a pillar not only for Larissa, but also for the Region of Thessaly and Central Greece, on 3-11-2020, the integration of the operation ‘Procurement of equipment for the radiological workshop of the University General Hospital of Larissa’ under code 5070672 was published on 3-11-20. On 3-11-2020 the integration of the act was published "Procurement of equipment for the anesthetic clinic of the University General Hospital of Larissa" with code 5070634. It is noted that the 5th RCL hospitals have completed all the procedures required to make the immediate publication of these tenders. Finally, with regard to the immunity measures at the Larissa Hospital, since the beginning of the pandemic until today at the Larissa University General Hospital, we have proceeded and carried out the recruitment of thirty doctors, of which fourteen permanent and sixteen assistants, as well as ninety two nurses and other staff, while at the Larissa General Hospital, sixteen doctors and forty-six members of nurses and other staff. The ITH beds for the Coronary for the University Hospital of Larissa after the first wave of the pandemic were eight and today it is fourteen while for the General Hospital of Larissa after the first wave of the pandemic, which was eight, the second was twelve and today it is twenty. This means that the two hospitals in Larissa have a total of thirty-four beds of intensive therapy for the coronary. Finally, the beds available for cases in need of mild hospitality are a hundred and three for the university, including seventeen negative pressure beds and forty two beds for the Larissa General Hospital. In any case, we are ready and able to increase the beds in intensive care and simple care units only for Coronovir cases, if conditions require. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u70	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u71	Minister, the first part of your answer really leaves me amazed. Let me tell you why. I'm one of the last ones to personalize any difference that two people have. But when the citizen of Larissa sees two senior state officials - who are addressing the ruling party - and one who arrows the other for the possible decommissioning of responsibilities, you are now coming here and say that everything is fine? Are you accusing us of not putting back? You insult the world's intelligence above all. Be serious, Minister. And I honestly say it, not ironic. I repeat that what I read to you was not said by a Member of the House. The hereditary district chief said it. And you come here today and you say everything was fine? In your reply to the second part, it proved that on 3 November, if I am not mistaken, the programmes were integrated. Aren't we late in April when these projects were announced? In any case, an operational plan to deal with possible - the unborn - increase in cases in Larissa I did not hear, Minister. It's not on the topical question, but if you can, answer it. The Rehabilitation Centre ‘Help’ can provide services as it offered them in April 2020 in several cases of COVID, yes or no? What is the operational plan drawn up by the Ministry of Health with the Health Region, but also with the Region of Thessaly, to deal with the consequences of the coronary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u72	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Red, I'll start with the last words you mentioned in a private center. Finally, you have discovered that cooperation in the public and private sectors can help the health system meet the needs of our fellow citizens. We know not only the "Aid" centre but also all the private structures that operate in Larissa and in the area of Thessaly. Of course, there is an operational plan to deal with possible adverse development of the disease. At the moment we have strengthened our powers so that we can successfully meet the demands of the days. In fact, Larissa is under increased pressure at this time and there is a specific plan, so that we can further increase the availability of beds in intensive care units and in simple hospitals. I shall return to the question of 'Relief'. You know, there they were hospitalized, our fellow citizens were hosted by Roma when we had the cases in the Larissa area. We are also considering the case of'relief', where, of course, you have to agree on that, because it is easy to say 'why you did not do it', 'why you did not do that' - we should see under which circumstances such a centre can function. It could help us manage asymptomatic patients for the safe stay of such incidents. In every case, however, not only for this particular centre, as I have said, but also for all the private structures in the region, there is a specific plan in order to work together to deal with the upturn in this period. Finally, as far as the regulator and commander of the 5th Health Region are concerned, I will once again repeat that the writings are left. There are specific decisions that are also published in "GENERAL" and to which one can refer. There one will see that under no circumstances have the Region of Thessaly and the Health Region of Thessaly neglected their duties and the work they have to do in order to strengthen the National Health System at this time. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with our first question with number 147/44/6-10-2020 and request the submission of documents of the petitions cycle by the Member of the Eastern Attica of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) kouroliakou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Sufficient deficiencies in Eastern Attica's health centres". Mr Skouriakou's question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that I come to this question with sincere respect for those who are suffering from this pandemic, those who are in hospital beds, their families, doctors, nurses and, of course, those who have left. I wish, Madam President, that the government's performance was such that we did not have to come here to ask these questions. Alas, though. We are obliged to ask questions, to receive answers, to propose. On 27 March 2020, a few days after the government submitted the General Lockdown, we had tabled a question on 'Recruitment of Doctors in Public Health Structures Eastern Attica'. We have not received any response in breach of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and of the Constitution. However, the problems of East Attica’s Health Care Structures are growing daily. According to haunted complaints from local residents, the shortages in medical and nursing staff are so great that there is not always enough staff in newspapers. They also complain that there are shortcomings in medical equipment. A total of medical - nursing staff serving at the East Attica Health Centers for days SYRIZA is very low, even though pandemic has taken place today. In view of the above, therefore, the Minister is asking what measures he intends to take to restore the proper functioning of the East Attica health centres, and how many doctors and nurses are serving in the East Attica Health Care Structures. Of course, we are asking for the relevant documents to be submitted to Parliament. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister how many supplementary doctors are serving in the East Attica health centres and we ask that the organic and organograms of the East Attica health structures be submitted to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u76	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Skourikos, I will begin by presenting in the Minutes of this House the relevant documents you requested from the 1st Health Region of Attica, for the staff who manages the structures of the Health Care Primary. All the information and information you requested are at your disposal. Of course - you know that - there are no bodies in all health centres, especially because the organic positions are in the area of health. However, all positions and data are reflected in the statements I make on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As far as your question is concerned, I am really sorry because I have to answer a question that is inaccurate. This is not the first time that you and your fellow Members have tried to demonstrate that the National Health System has not been strengthened by personnel. It is permanently the tactic you have followed in recent months and you are constantly coming back and questioning the recruitment we have done and telling us that the health system today has five thousand less personnel than in July 2019 that we received the country's governance. How can this happen when at least seven thousand ancillary staff are recruited? The numbers are vague, disprove you and in any case everything is in "DENMARK". We have submitted them and submitted them constantly in the Minutes of the House, because the number of people not only increases, but also the medical and other staff and permanent staff who are part of the National Health System. I repeat that supplementary staff from March to today have exceeded seven thousand. I will repeat - I said this in previous answers today - that for the remaining ancillary staff serving in the health system from previous years we have been extending all existing contracts up to 30 October 2021. The same applies to all staff employed under fixedterm contracts. It's just arithmetic. Add to the health system and do not remove. That's the reality, you like it, you don't like it. These are the facts. In complete contrast to what you refer to in your question, the National Health System has been kept and is still standing because it has been strengthened in human resources and will continue to be strengthened if conditions so require. I would add here - because the Minister for Labour is on the table - the very important aid, the strengthening of the National Health System with the four thousand OAED beneficiaries, a situation that our government has received. We have given these workers an extension for one year, and we will give them another year, so that we can find a lasting solution for them in the National Health System that we so much need. Especially for the structures of primary health care in East Attica, there is no issue of shortages, they are fully operational and staffed. It's ten health centers, and in 24 hours' operation it's nine of them. Physicians of various specialties meet the needs of the population. I mention to you attributes: Lavrio Health Center in September 2020 had a total of three thousand five hundred fifty eight visits in cardiology, gynaecology, orthopaedics, pathology, pediatrics, psychiatrics, surgery, dentistry and general medicine. Some thirty-eight thousand were visits in September 2020 for doctors of various specialties in the ten East Attica health centres. How do they manage? They served in June 2019 two hundred and fifty - five doctors, and today there are two hundred seventy. They served in June 2019 three hundred and thirty - seven people in nursing and other staff, and today they serve four hundred ten, seventy - three. Especially for ancillary staff a hundred and four doctors and ninety - four nursing and other subsidiary staff are commanding these ten health centers. One more thing. It is very reasonable that your constituency, as we are concerned with the whole of the country, should be concerned about it. But what do you have to say to the citizens of Eastern Attica about the fact that not a single TOMY, which you boast, of the two hundred thirty-nine who were originally planning and the hundred and twenty-seven that you have finally implemented, did not work in East Attica? Did you have health coverage and health care facilities then with very medical and nursing staff that you didn't need, but today did you discover shortcomings and gaps that were created magically from one day to the next? I don't think so. What is happening - and the citizens are fortunately aware of it - is an entirely irresponsible behaviour on the part of Officerial Response, a attitude - I would say, unfortunately, detrimental to the place and especially at this time when the country is fighting a huge battle, so that we can all overcome the coronary pandemic together. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u79	Minister, I'm sorry I pityed you, but you know, this evidence we didn't build. You should go against and find your point with the statistics of the Ministry of Interior, as well as the Register of Manpower of the Greek State, apografi.gov.gr. That's where the evidence is, officially, valid. Find them with the Human Resources Register and the statistical data of the Ministry of Interior. But what should we do? When reality doesn't agree with us, so much worse for reality. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] You know, you don't live in Eastern Attica. You were right to say that, in this constituency, I am active and alive. I was the one who went to the California Health Center and saw an empty space with four doctors. When SYRIZA left the doctors were thirty, Mr. Contozamani. Go ask my fellow citizens in Lavrio, Oropus how much TIMY have helped them and how much they have worked and how much they have been backed up. Yes, because your partners give you evidence, and we have an experiential relationship with this whole story. So I have to tell you that we have received the East Attica health centers with forty doctors for five hundred sixty - sixteen thousand, a doctor with about fourteen thousand inhabitants, and we handed over by a hundred. In Eastern Attica, the TOMYs that I told you and in the East Attica health centres are currently operating less, because the movements you know very well have started. You got doctors from there and you've taken them to hospitals for COVID, the known movements. So in 2018, the government of SYRIZA had hired them by a two-year contract and what the current government is doing is mocking them, Minister, with continuously renewing contracts and not giving a definitive solution to their employment relationship to the National Health System. You know, since the first lockdown, I contacted the head of the 1st HR and told him that I have in my hands a list of dozens of doctors who have applied, pneumonologists, pathologists who need it. Why don't you hire these people? He was telling me some things I didn't understand. In the course of the discussion, it turned out that the head of the First Ministry of Foreign Affairs of our country is a retired general in retired police. They put a police general on commanding the 1st D.C. I'm guessing they didn't find anyone else excellent with relative qualifications to get him to manage our health, of us living in Eastern Attica. Since the first moment, therefore, SYRIZA has called for the strengthening of primary health structures with medical and nursing staff and for all these structures to be able to carry out mass tests for free. Why can't that be? There are two health centers for COVID. We ask for more, we ask for it to be done in the north of Attica and elsewhere, so that we do not pay 100 euros. I know that because a member of my family went to the microbiological lab in our area and it's 100 euros. And we're not the only ones. There are too many who are afflicted. It is therefore clear that the Government not only shields the ESS, not only does it not shield the health structures of the Eastern Attica and the society, as it claims, but, behind this famous individual responsibility, it goes ahead with the implementation of its plan that is less a state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Darkdog, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u81	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the PPP. When you hear partnership with private individuals, your morality really rises. You know what? Last time I had a topical question again, I told you about the East Attica hospital, which is what we are asking for decades in Eastern Attica. I told you that the Government of SYRIZA has arranged with the Cypriot Government to offer this to the Cypriot Government. You have responded indirectly but quite clearly that this is not going to happen, because there is a great deal of work and maintenance costs. You know, the Pecha list cost 22 million, when 12 million is the annual budget of a three hundred-bed prefectural hospital and the annual additional doctor's cost - which is 20,000 - is guaranteed by these 20-22 million doctors. I will finish by repeating what I heard on television by the coordinator of the ITH at the "Papanikolaou" Hospital of Thessaloniki, Mr. Kapravvelos: "Increase the staff". It is a cry of agony for both Greece and Eastern Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Darkness, let me start by saying that you said there was a coronary test on SYRIZA, that there was no coronary at that time. Now it's the coronary, and now there's a test and free of charge for the population in public structures, if our fellow citizens need it. You referred to the Commander of the 1st Health Region, a worthy executive of the Greek Police and a worthy executive over the health system. You've spoken of this face before. I'm sorry to say it, but I have to say it again. We said so because your party had said so when Mr. Stathes was listening to the committee responsible, that the Governor of the 1st Health Region on your day, Mrs. Diamantopoulou, was a member of the Port Body. You don't mind that then. And I am sorry to say so, because I had worked with Mrs Diamantopoulou when I was Commander in the 1st Health Region and was at Alexandra Hospital and was indeed a remarkable member of the health sector. So don't try to create impressions. Let me tell you again, because you said it in your dentistry, that no TOMY has been opened in Eastern Attica. You also blamed us for the first period of the pandemic that we have not used the Primary Health Care. Now you're abducing us again because Primary Health Care strengthens and assists the country's hospitals. I will repeat: we are in a battle. No one's left over. Everyone's gonna be involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u84	Who is missing from the doctor leaving the health center?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Wormhole, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u86	And finally, let me remind you that the recruitment process for ancillary staff has begun on your day and indeed, it is a useful tool to meet emergencies. We are not in the world, especially with the staff and doctors at the TOMYC, because you are well aware of the fact that the payroll of this staff is financed by European programmes. What happens when this program is over? We said that because no one is left over, we will use them in the National Health System. You have created hope in this world. And one last thing about our favorite issue of public and private partnerships. I will once again say that this government supports the public nature of the National Health System. In a public health system, however, the state and private sector coexist. All doctors fight to provide health services to all citizens. The PPPs, because you are disturbed by the word "private" - the letter yata - are not privatization of the health area. The PPPs are financial tools, so that we can improve the services provided, improve infrastructure and people enjoy better health services. We don't find the wheel. There are successful examples of foreign policy. This experience abroad we want to bring to our country so that, at last, we have a modern health system that meets the needs of the entire population, at no cost to the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u87	We move on to the second question by No 263/8-10-2020 from MP B1's North Athens section of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Maryizas Xinoyannakopoulos, on the subject: "We have the prospects of the OAED because of the government's choices". Will the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs reply, Mr. Brutsi? Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on 9 October, forty-nine SYRIZA Members - a Progressive Alliance, we asked you a question about the prospects of the OAED, which, unfortunately, were being deleted unfavourable and precarious because of the government choices. At a time of deep economic, health and social crisis, both the functioning of the OAED and its valuable programmes and actions should be supported. According to the announcement by Mr. Mitsotakis in Thessaloniki and the draft law you have put in and completed the consultation and is expected to be submitted to the House, you are proposing to reduce by three percentage points the insurance contributions of employers and employees. In fact, it follows from a decrease in 0.9 percentage points in June and will be fully borne and reduced by the OAED in full. It is currently estimated that, including the June reduction, the new reduction you are proposing will result in a reduction of EUR 1.2 billion in OAS revenue, leaving it available on an annual basis at around 700 million, while, as you know, there is a legal obligation of 30% to be attributed to the budget of the OAS. You ask, Minister, and it is crucial that you answer: How do you intend - and if you intend - to make up for this huge gap in the OAED's revenues, which will, of course, cost OAED beneficiaries the very important employment and training programmes? What is the plan for the OAED and its prospect? Unfortunately, we have read in the Pissaridis project the OAED depreciation and a tendency to privatise both advisory services and training programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u89	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I must first of all - spontaneously - thank Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. In fact, I thank you for giving me the opportunity here in this House, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, to prove two things: the correctness of our policies and 2012-2014, and today with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as well as the hypocrisy of the party you belong to. And I'm explaining. I could just say to you that this is the budget that Christos Stakoras submitted a few days ago. In here we see the impact of EUR 816 million of the three units that - I confirm - will be in the bill coming to Parliament on Wednesday and you will be invited to vote or not. And let me just say to you that in the comprehensive draft budget of 816 million, the state budget gives it to the OAED. There's no problem. But I'm not staying here. I'm going to generalize the question you've asked, because it's a crucial issue. I would therefore like to inform the House, Mr President, that in 2012-2014 with an unemployment of 27.3% and with undeclared work at 42.3%, the Antonis Samaras government then, with Finance Minister Yiannis Stournaras, Deputy Minister of State Christos Stakouras and myself at the Ministry of Labour, made superhuman efforts to turn these critical indicators. At the Ministry of Labour we produced three projects which were the cause - what you then boasted when you became government, SYRIZA, I mean - for the declining of unemployment that began from 2013 and continued until the month of the crisis. Firstly, we have introduced innovation, the only in European and global, perhaps, the 'ERGANI' level, which today supports the labour market and workers, which was the electronic protection net used by the EIC and the Ministry of Labour to protect workers. Secondly, we turned the economy into growth. Thirdly, we reduced my contributions for six days. Six entire units have reduced insurance contributions from 46.56 to 40.56. At the same time, I also imposed a fine of EUR 10,500, that famous fine, the hardest it has ever been as a fine for the Ministry of Labour. The result is that undeclared work today is around 7% - and perhaps below - and unemployment has been deviating from 2013, which we have taken up as a precedent. Now, unfortunately, it has been braked because of COVID. What I want from you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, is this and I will reply to my denology more specifically on the subject of the three units. Question: Since you are a party against the reduction of insurance contributions and believe what you are saying to me in the question, first of all, in the four and a half years when you were government, why did you not increase insurance contributions again? Secondly, with the six 2012-2014 units did the OAED collapse? I stop here, but I would like to ask for an answer from you because you are either not aware of the reality or you are hiding it, and that is hypocrisy. I am sorry for the expression I am using, but because we need to speak in clear terms and not ask questions about impressions, nor about questions, I ask you four and a half years why you did not increase insurance contributions and whether OAS collapsed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u91	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u92	Minister, I would remind you that you are here to respond to the opposition and not us in the government. That's the first. Secondly, because you are talking about hypocrisy, I should remind you - and that is where you ought to recognise it - that, because of SYRIZA's governance from 2015 to 2019, ten units of unemployment fell, and from 27%, when you yourself admitted that you left it, you found unemployment at 17%. And now we are seeing your choices in dealing with the pandemic, in subsidising unemployment and not supporting employment, not supporting jobs, wages and demand. From there on, with this paradoxicality that you have done, you have avoided responding to critical issues. First of all, you are well aware of your great experience, that by law from the state budget the OAED can only be subsidised in terms of financing for the unemployment benefit. Our question is clear: How are you going to make up for the reduction in revenue, not from the transfer made by Mr Stagiras, who is present here, of course, on unemployment benefit, but how are you going to replace, Minister, financing for the employment programmes, training programmes and the various valuable social actions of the OSCE? Also, in the draft law you have consulted - and we will, of course, discuss it, if it is introduced into the Committee on Social Affairs - it is mentioned as a temporary measure, a measure which concerns pandemic, at least that is how we understand it, that it is only in 2021. I would therefore return to you the question, Minister, and we ask you: we have proposed that you and the Finance Minister present in order to support companies with unrepayable aid and cover insurance contributions. So since it's a measure for the pandemic you could choose this road. Of course, because you are telling us again that this will come to help the workers, you know very well that it will be a very small benefit for the workers. And I challenge you, if you want to correct me, on the basis of our calculations, 50% of the employees who have a salary of about EUR 500 are going to see an increase of EUR 6 per month. You will tell me it is a difficult period, but it is a small increase, too small for the costs that this will entail. It must be a wage of over EUR 1,000 to see an increase of EUR 12. Therefore, the issue raised here concerns the perspective of the OAED. Is it in your mind to support the existence of a public body for public policy dealing with unemployment and employment support? Or do you want, as with the APRC, to gradually dismantle and weaken the operation of the OAED so that, in view of the recovery fund and the funds to come, it is just a public body transferring funds to the private sector? For this is the case, the privatisation of consultancy services and the privatization of training. If you do not respond clearly how to fill out the gap created by the regulation you are proposing, and we believe that this is your aim, the weakenment and the privatisation of the services of the OAED. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u94	I will continue from where I stopped, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, and I am explaining myself directly, as you ask me why I do the pastology. You claimed that unemployment was decreasing, but you did not say an argument why unemployment was reduced because undeclared work was reduced. I have the policy of 'big-psychism' - in introductory terms - because we have to be in politics, to say that unemployment began to decline from 2013 to March 2020 precisely for the four reasons that I said: Turning the economy, 'ERGAN', an electronic shield for workers, a reduction in insurance contributions and 10,500 fines. Can you give me an argument why unemployment has fallen? Anyway, I'm going to the moment you're looking for, and you're asking me new things to answer. Mrs Xenonanakopoulou, you said that we are supporting unemployment benefits and we are not subsidising the work. So I respond with information, which is currently available to you and which has been made public. Is job support or is suspensions by banning redundancies? In particular, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, with the latest data up to October, the Ministry of Labour with the assistance of the Ministry of Finance has paid two and a half million workers and paid 1.9 billion euros, 2 billion euros together with the insurance contributions required as an injection to e-ECA to pay pensions. Isn't that support for work? Secondly, with regard to the 100 000 jobs, which you have also denounced in your question that you are against, I understand that today these 100 000 jobs have been created in the pandemic, in the recession, with a wounded labour market which has yielded 12 000 jobs. Thananos Petralias informed me that they cost 342 million euros. That's how much that is. Ask: is that not support for employment or is it not? Thirdly, the OAS programmes, which continue to run and the subsidy and support we have given to unemployed and long-term unemployed, are not OAED policies? In particular, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, in order not to forget ourselves, I will tell you a few things that are worthwhile. Up to now we have implemented in the first wave of the pandemic regular unemployment benefits of EUR 800 and 10% for every child, the benefits of the long-term unemployed EUR 400, the unemployment benefits of the self-employed EUR 720, more than EUR 200 million in approximately EUR 200 million in two hundred thousand unemployed up to now, exceptional financial assistance of EUR 400 for the long-term unemployed from April to May, EUR 400 in sixty-eight thousand in long-term unemployed, 60 million in the end was given to 50 000 long-term unemployed. And what do we have to do with the Treasury and the Government? What the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has announced, is that we will give the next period of EUR 800 and 10% of unemployment benefits regularly for every child, for the long-term unemployed EUR 400, for the help of the self-employed EUR 720, for the 100 million to about twenty-three thousand unemployed and 52 million to thirty-three thousand unemployed. Isn't that money, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou? Isn't it money going to the OAED by the state budget to support employment and the weak and the long-term unemployed? It is. And I'm closing with the last one, Mr. President. I have to say the policy that we believe. Your right is to have a different approach. This is a different ideological approach and it is absolutely respected. With the reduction of contributions we will make, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, in 40,56 that you received in 2015, we will reduce it to 36,66. They will breathe workers, breathe businesses, breathe the labour market, breathe the economy. The aim is - I wish we could - to make it sustainable as size. However, because you said that it is small amounts, so listen, because the benefits will also be mentioned in Parliament, listen: With EUR 650, with the EUR 3,9 cumulative units that we, the Mitsotakis Government, have a reduction in non-wage costs, we have an annual benefit for the employer of EUR 207, for the worker of EUR 148, unless you consider the EUR 148 to be a small amount. Secondly, at EUR 800: EUR 254 for the firm annually, EUR 183 for the worker. EUR 1 000 - the majority of workers, from EUR 900 to EUR 1 000 - EUR 318 for the company, EUR 228 for the worker. At EUR 1,500: EUR 477 for the firm, EUR 342 for the worker. And this is not done by intervention in the economy in order to increase the resources of firms and workers directly. They are indirectly achieved through the reduction of wage costs. These are policies, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, they are structural changes, which will really give oxygen to increase employment in our country in favour of the unemployed and the workers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u95	Thank you both. Allow me, before the last series of questions begin, to express my personal grief - I imagine the grief of all the Members - for the death of the doctor of the Parliament, Yiannis Metropoulou, who served hundreds of MPs, but also of the officials of the Parliament with real commitment to his duty and to the health of all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u96	The President of the House on this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u97	The President has made a statement from Saturday that covers all of us and has also been kept at the beginning of the sitting of a minute's silence. That's why I said personal grief. We move to the fourth with number 128/7-11-2020 on the second question of the second question of the Members of the Elias Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on 'Insufficient the measures announced by the Government for the world of the market'. The current question will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavros. Here, Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, frozen is the world of the market by announcing the measures you have taken on Thursday, on the day of the announcement of the second lockdown, and last Thursday in the House with the announcements or rather not the Prime Minister's announcements about the businesses that have been closed by government order. What did the government say? Transfer of EUR 323 million tax commitments for the end of April 2021, at the same time as calling on professionals with closed shops and suspended workers to pay EUR 4 billion by the end of the year. In particular: EUR 850 million ENVIRONMENT November - December, 1,1 billion for traffic charges, 800 million for income tax on natural persons, 800 million for income tax on legal persons and 434 million additional contributions from the clearance of the ECA, with half being paid on 30 November, with shops closed down, Mr President and Minister. And all this, without knowing whether the market will open and when it will open and whether the workers will have returned to work by the end of the year. For self-employed and scientists, who will remain open, but in a dead market, no support measures were announced, except for the reduction of rent in those sectors that are affected by ministerial decision: lawyers, doctors, economists, psychologists, other categories of scientists. Following the humiliation of the "Scoil Eagle" - the Minister has left - once again tested the indifference of the Mitsotakis government and especially the lawyers, since the overwhelming proportion of legal actions has been suspended. So, what did you announce? Check-out date, 30% -40% rental cut, 1 billion loan repayable and 700 million in January for all enterprises, self-employed professionals, i.e. around 800,000 companies with the '50% loan -50% aid' scheme. The question is, of course, when this compensation will be paid, since the time has passed and so far the relevant platform has not been reached. And I say this because you, Minister, have recently said that the money will be paid on 24 November, that is to say in a week from today we are talking about, as you announced, of course, the subsidisation of thousands of housing loans from GEOYRA. Five days ago, in fact, we also saw leaks. Of course, on the website of the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat there are only this sixty thousand applications. Questions, then: Do you intend to support professionals and scientists who will stay open with very low turnovers? And you intend to transfer in time a significant proportion or all the current tax obligations of those who have closed with a government order or those who are affected? And secondly, will you increase the repayable advance by EUR 2 billion in addition, including previous phases in returning 50% of the total amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u99	Here, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to express my personal grief for the loss of the doctor of the House, a special personality. Therefore, warm condolences to his relatives! Mr President, the question you have tabled will allow me to tell you that you have not read the government's communications correctly. I'm going straight to answer that scientists are in and on'refunded advance 4'. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u101	I know, I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u102	You said it was just rent. So you should know there are more predictions. I shall therefore go back to my prototype for all the measures and my dentextology for'return 4'. You claim that the new package of measures does not provide for any support, as you say, to free professionals and scientists. That's what you know is not true. Because with our interventions of EUR 3.3 billion, we are going to strengthen the safety net that covers, among other things, small and medium-sized enterprises, free professionals and self-employed people. In particular, in order to answer your question, firstly, to undertakings which are suspended by a public authority, a suspension of payment of VAT, payable in November, until 30 April 2021. This debt will be repaid in 12 instalments at zero interest rate or 24 instalments at a rate of 2.5% from May 2021 onwards, not in May 2021, from May 2021. Provision is made for a suspension of payment of the instalments of regulated tax and insurance liabilities payable in November. The repayment shall be converted into corresponding instalments at the end of the current arrangement, not even the following year. I would remind you that important facilities have already been introduced for the tax obligations of legal persons - including free professionals - and also natural persons affected by the coronary. I remind them because you probably forget them. All redundant debts created in the period March - June 2020, in particularly favourable terms, but also affected by the pandemic of taxpayers, who had regulated their debts and were suspended until 30 April 2021 for the March-June 2020 instalments and will be supported. The unpaid doses will be added from May 2021 and then at the end of the doses of initial adjustment. It revives the existing arrangement for debtors affected by the pandemic, unable to pay the doses of their regulation and lost them between March and October 2020. Doses not paid will be added as overnumbers after the last dose. Also, those who lost their regulation after 1 November 2019 can now join the standard arrangement of twenty-four or forty-eight instalments, provided that specific income and assets criteria are met. That's all we did in the tax field. Did you get rid of it there? Free professionals, including scientific branches, are now given the right to participate in the fourth and fifth cycles of repayable advance with 50% of any arrangement. I will return to this measure, which is your second question, in dentistry. We only stayed there? Thirdly, the suspension of payment of bank loans continues, and with an amendment that we tabled on Friday and will be voted on tomorrow, the payments of cheques of firms affected for seventy-five days are suspended by the end of the year. Fourthly, they are entitled to a 40% rent reduction - at least you mentioned that - in their professional property for the month of November all the firms affected. The measure also applies to the principal residence of workers who are suspended from employment contracts, but also to the study centre of their children throughout the territory. And obviously for the month of November, as you have seen in the amendment we will be discussing tomorrow, as far as the owners are concerned, half of the damage will be paid directly to the beneficiaries and credited directly to the bank accounts. And because you mentioned the burden that professionals will have this year by the end of the year, I would remind you of some things about income tax and HISPIA. We have proceeded with the reduction and, in some cases, the abolition of the advance tax on legal persons, as well as the permanent reduction in corporate taxation, so that this year's tax on legal persons is EUR 2 billion less for higher profits in 2019. All these categories of compatriots you say paid this year or paid EUR 2 billion less tax on legal income than 2019, due to the political choices of the current government. We have legislated for the reduction of HPAI, which is down by 22% and will be repaid to six instead of five monthly instalments and income tax for businesses, which is down to 24%, in eight instead of six monthly instalments. With all these interventions, payment deadlines extend beyond 2020 by giving an important breath. All these measures are essential support measures for businesses and free professionals and demonstrate that we are in constant vigilance, that we are flexibly flexibly and that we are acting in good time, but always with two basic words, which I call on all of us to have in our minds in plenary: seriousness and responsibility. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u103	Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, it is regrettable that the Minister of Finance will come to this Chamber and not answer the questions we have put to him, but obviously drifting and assuming that it is a follow-up to the debate on the motion of censure, to make a reference to what the government has been legislating all year round. So the Minister did not reply to us how they would pay the 4 billion to be paid by the end of the year by the professionals whom he has benefited, as he has said, and for whom he has transferred 323 million euro tax commitments. He has no answer for that. Those who say the Minister of Finance and the Government of Mitsotakis benefited them with closed operations and a job suspension to pay EUR 4 billion. Secondly, to see who is serious and responsible in this Chamber, we are talking about 'Return of Prepayment 4', Mr President and Minister. You said that all the professionals would be paid on November 24th. And if you were more careful, you would be careful that in my first speech I spoke about eight hundred thousand businesses and that they are all part of the "Refund 4". But I'm contrasting, you probably didn't hear it. But you are not telling us when the platform of the repayable advance will come out and when the affected professionals, whether their shops are closed or their shops, will finally be paid out of this amount. We believe that the government's measures are inadequate. But that's something we don't just say. EBRD research before the second lockdown shows that 65% considered the measures insufficient and 54% expected a reduction in revenue in 2021. The previous poll in the newspaper 'Parapolistics' - I imagine you know it - shows that 70% of the measures consider the measures inadequate, 48% of the New Democracy voters. Let's see who's responsible and serious, Minister. You said you were rescinding loans. Did it draw your attention that it was the Greek banks who requested the supervisory mechanism to continue the moratorium on payments so that the loans would not be redundant and that, of course, this was not the government's initiative, as is demonstrated in the first phase? Don't try to hang it, because you've been caught in by the banks, and you've been suspended by the auctions. On the day of Lockdown, Ms. Giannakopoulou applied, asked and appealed to Mr. Tsira to legislate to suspend auctions in the Ministry of Justice's bill, and then a week later, the Prime Minister came to announce it, while she has already been put into the ministerial decision. So you must postpone the payment of EUR 4 billion that you call on professionals and employees to pay with closed shops, as well as workers on suspension after six months. Where are they going to get that money? You must also increase the amount of the repayable advance to a total of EUR 4 billion, with the model of 50% aid - 50% loan at all stages, from the first phase of the programme. At the same time, because you are rightly asking for the repayable advance - we have said so, Minister, as we had first proposed to reduce the tax advance and you do not remember, since April 2020 and not July, when you legislated it - to maintain jobs in enterprises that will receive State aid, to repay the advance, have you wondered how easy it is for an undertaking that will open up, in the best case, 1 December, to keep the workers for four months, when another lockdown will be likely, when the turnover has been reduced and the purchasing power of our fellow citizens has changed? Therefore, you must grant workers' insurance contributions to these enterprises for at least six months if you really want to strengthen them. If you don't do this, you know, Minister, that many businesses won't apply for the returnee. That is the main reason why they did not do so in the first phase, and that is why they will be closed. But since we're talking about the repayable advance, see who's telling the truth, who's responsible and who's working for business. How much money will business and professionals get from the December 4 deposit when they get it? When will you tell us responsiblely and seriously, when will it finally be the 'colour of money' for professionals who have closed shops and have to pay EUR 4 billion in the next forty-five days? According to Mr Georgian's reply of 13 July 2020, special purpose compensation in the first phase of Lockdown received four hundred seventy-three thousand nine hundred ninety-nine companies. So if we divide one billion with four hundred three thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine companies, of which you know that too many individual companies had been excluded in the first phase and not all those who had a right, then the amount of EUR 2.100 you said goes out. In other words, one billion euros through companies that closed with a state mandate in the first phase - and now more than five billion euros for the fifth that they did not close - is more than four hundred seventy thousand - if we divide, that is, 1 billion euros, comes out of 2 000 euros. Is the application number really going to make himself? Apparently, it's gonna make a bigger number. And, of course, will they take business with only 2,000 euros? They'll probably get bigger. So what you have announced, Mr Staikora, that all businesses with the EUR 1 billion in December will receive at least EUR 2 000, EUR 1 000, aid of EUR 1 000, does not apply, and you know that. Unless you bet that not all companies, that is, you will discourage them from applying, because they will be afraid of the worker's preservation clause. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why we propose - and I shall end, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance - that you increase the amount. The EUR 1 billion that you have said for December to four hundred thousand plus companies that are not closed, so over five hundred thousand businesses, comes out of less than EUR 2 000. If you decide horizontally in all companies that will apply, when you take off the platform, give 2,000 euros, tell us today to know. Otherwise, you must do something for yourself, that is to say, to increase the amount above, so as to get a minimum of EUR 2 000 for the companies and those who have higher turnovers the amount they have to keep up and keep their workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u105	Here you go, Mr Stakoura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I will not get carried away by irresponsible bids, because if the financial staff were to follow this strategy from April when you told us to give EUR 3 billion, we would already not be able to give a single euro to the Greek society. You will allow me, therefore, because you have started your dentistry by saying that it is sad not to observe you, to read your question. You say 'Health careers and scientists will have no support'. And we agree that it is also on the returnee, it is also on the reduction of rent, it is also on tax arrangements, and we have also spoken with their associations. I read your question. You say below who comes in and is unknown when they will be given. I would expect you to read the relevant press releases. There are relevant press releases that say who comes in and how they get in. I'll answer all this. Because, in fact, as a Change Movement, you are making a systematic effort - and you are doing well - to bring concrete elements specifically about the repayable advance, today I will submit to the Minutes, the last update I have, the last analysis of how much money has gone to the real economy through the repayable advances. I would therefore like to inform you that to date a hundred and forty-five thousand per cent of two single VAT have been allocated. Why am I saying "only"? Because you realize that some may have received a return payment of 1 and 2 or a combination. So 3.4 billion euros were shared in seven months. Here's the analysis board. And if you want I can come to Elias County one day, walk the stores, see these stores in your prefecture where they were financed. We have the image of walking the real economy that this measure has succeeded and made considerable resources into the real economy. I shall therefore table this table in the Minutes. The fourth cycle is now beginning, the relevant MS. The decisions were made ten days ago by the government. We took the NSA off Friday night. Public officials, civil servants incorporate KHS data into the platform, because, as you should know, we also put the predictions on "Jan", there are specificities and specialties that should be ready on the platform. Why? Because on the basis of the communication we have received, the application platform for a repayable advance 4 will present directly the amount of aid that the company is entitled to, if it fulfils the criteria. So we hope that by Friday or sometime this weekend the platform will be opened up and the next week, as it was our timetable, a substantial amount will be disbursed depending on the requests made by businesses, because each time we pay on the requests made. I shall therefore submit to the Minutes and the press release which says who we include - and free professionals and scientists - with what reductions in turnover, at which point and time. C. JUDGMENTS We believe that the level of the fourth repayable will be around EUR 1.2 billion. We therefore estimate that at the end of the year the repayable advance will exceed EUR 5 billion. If we add to this the other financial instruments available, such as TEIX and the guarantee mechanism, then the overall liquidity injection is expected to exceed EUR 11 to 12 billion in the year, in 2020. We are therefore expanding and strengthening the existing measures accordingly always depending on the country's cash possibilities. We manage the crisis, far away, as I said at the beginning, from unresponsible and irresponsible auctions, because we must have our eye on the present but also on the future and we must be ready to constantly give more and more resources to the real economy, not knowing today that we are talking about the full extent and intensity of the problem. At least, however, we have agreed in this Chamber that the measure of repayable advance has succeeded, it has gone to too many small and medium-sized enterprises, it has gone in a fair way and, most importantly, it has been targeted, it has gone to those who really need it. I have told you again that if you see the analysis of the third returnee, you will find that the largest amount of money went to the Greek islands, because there was a sharp reduction in the turnover due to the shrinking of tourism. I submit for the minutes the analytical table and the press release. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u107	Mr Stavoura, you will now answer the fifth question under number 147/9-11-2020 on the second question of the second cycle of MP B1's Northern Athens Department of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Increase of aid ceilings from the European Union per undertaking'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u108	Mr. President, can I speak with a mask or without a mask?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u109	You can talk without a mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u110	As the Bureau, make up your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u111	You're right, but because some people spoke without, some spoke with a mask, I don't want to bring back the subject of individual responsibility again. You guys, after all, keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u112	You have made a very good move, Mr President, by mentioning the name of Giannis Metropoulou, who has been so unfairly lost by this scourge of COVID -19. And I've been thinking about him many times, I've consulted him here, with the tensions within this House for so many years, I've visited him. It cost me not to see this man again and you did very well to mention him. With regard to my question, Minister, I tabled this timely question on 13 October because I saw a press release from the European Commission, where there was a reference to the exponential increase in aid per company on the basis of the various programmes, and this really exponential increase starts from the EUR 700,000 that is today, and it reaches EUR 3 000 000. This is a very serious move. I read the relevant statements by the relevant Competition Committee, Commissioner Margret Westager - her own press release - precisely in the words: 'The current amendment' - which I mentioned - 'also introduces a new measure which will enable the Member States - to - to you - 'to support those enterprises which, during the eligible period...'. An eligible period for State aid was the one we are now going through and it was extended because of the second wave until June 2021. Therefore, enterprises that, in this eligible year, have a reduction in their turnover of at least 30% compared to the corresponding period of 2019 due to the upturn of the krone, support will contribute, says the Commissioner, to covering part of the fixed costs of the beneficiaries not covered by their revenue, with a maximum of EUR 3 million per undertaking. This is a very positive decision and content. But I wonder why she was buried in Greece. I found her posted in "MONEY - TOYRISM" online magazine and made me a very big impression. I also saw the President of Greek Hotel President consider that the government is not positive towards this action or else hesitant to incorporate it into its financial programme. So I ask you, if these voices of reservation apply, and if that is not the case - I hope - what are you going to do on this issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u113	Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u114	At the outset, I will tell you that this is a very good question. In fact, we talked on the phone to tell you that I would like to come and answer it myself, because I consider this to be very important and confirm that we do not hesitate and we will proceed. You will simply allow me to break my answer into two legs, because some very delicate clarifications are needed. The Greek Government has been taking part in the debate on the European Union's Temporary Framework for State Aid. It is a temporary framework that takes into account the conditions of pandemic and allows Member States to support branches and businesses without the general restrictions on the European Union's state aid. In this process, the Ministry of Finance is actively involved. This is an active participation and a substantial contribution with proposals and counter-proposals both in the initial phase of the provisional framework and during the course of amendment of this as the pandemic crisis continues. This morning we had a teleconferencing conference with the Commissioner on this subject. The aim of this participation is not to harmonise the components and measures of the Temporary Framework in the structural and time-consuming features and the needs of the Greek economy. And this participation with substantiated arguments, as well as cooperation with the partners, brings results that responds to the Greek positions and priorities. What are the results? Firstly, it should be increased to a general measure, including the repayable advance, the support threshold per undertaking at EUR 800,000, and initially it was much lower. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. Thirdly, to extend the scope of the Temporary Framework until June 2021. With regard to the EUR 800,000 threshold - to start with, in my dentistry, I will say for the 3 000 000 - in the framework of the repayable advance and not only, we must - as I said - make a useful clarification. The EUR 800,000 threshold is not relevant to the EUR 200,000 threshold of the de minimis scheme, as these are distinct. This means that an undertaking that has received EUR 800,000 support can also receive additional support corresponding to or reach EUR 200,000 of the de minimis scheme. In other words, the aid may amount to not 800,000, but to 1,000 000, without prejudice to specific limits applicable to specific sectors. As long as the pandemic continues, the Temporary Framework is enriched and adapted to the new data. This is a dynamic process, with new tools and measures, as the development of the initials - as you quite rightly said - reaches its limits. One of the new elements of their update of the Temporary Framework last month is measure 3.12, which relates to the granting of aid for the uncovered costs of enterprises. Here is the critical word: 'Do not cover business costs', a measure supported by the Greek Government - I answer the core of your question - since I consider it particularly important and crucial for the follow-up. In my dentistry, I will speak exclusively about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u116	This is not the first time that I have been in this Chamber on issues relating to liquidity in the market and with colleagues from our party, Mr Kegeroglu, Mr Katrin, we have jointly asked the Minister for Development and we have discussed this issue. When, from the information we read, we expect the General Government's debt to lie down to 340,000,000,000 euros, the general government deficit from 7% to 10% at the end of the year. I have experienced what 9% and 8% and 10% in 2009 as Minister of Labour. I know what those numbers are. 15.7%, Mr Stakoura was a product of the National Statistical Authority and the European Commission and the European Central Bank that ended up being the general government deficit at the end of 2010. In the memorials we entered 8%, 9%, 10%. Now, we read that the general government deficit will range from 7% to 10% this year when it is over. And at the same time, eight out of ten businesses - eight out of ten! - to damage the waters, i.e. not profit. They realize that what awaits the country is far too hard and harder than what we have spent the days of the memorials. Of course, now we're not alone as we were back then. Now it is all the western hemisphere of the world and the European Union, first of all, which go through the same, all the Member States, but it does not stop each country from having peculiarities, but it does not stop each country having its own tools to overcome this difficulty, public finances and private finances. So, I am and we are very sensitive to liquidity issues in the market. The government says: 'We provide through programmes a great deal'. Statistics do not confirm that. The recent element I call upon is from a text that Thanasis Cekuras, the journalist of the newspaper "THEIRO THEMA" transferred to the Greek public speech. He carried a painting from the Brigel Institute, trustworthy, you know it very well. They are, of course, their criteria, not mine. They choose eleven countries of the European Union and measure what has been done on the basis of the intervention work of the governments in the immediate budgetary measures, where we are fourth from the end of the eleven, in the payment suspensions where Greece is the second since the end, and in the state loan guarantees where Greece is the second from the end. Something's wrong. And there are countries which also have the same numbers in terms of population as us. There are countries such as Belgium, Denmark, Hungary, the Netherlands, Portugal and larger countries such as Britain, France, Germany and Italy. Something's wrong. There is now a new limit for costs that companies cannot cope with. You are right to say that, rightly speaking, I took it from the Commissioner's press release and from her statements. I understand from your protology that it is embedded in your policies. That's how I figured it out. And in your words you have confirmed it and in your dentistry you will say it again. What is of interest to those who are listening to us is that they beside your will and a specific timetable and a concrete way of implementing it, because only you can say this and only from you can hear it from the people of the market and understand what it is that they have to do and that they can do and that the government will do in the coming months. Let me tell you that I'm following these issues and my opposition attitude is counted, it's fair, but it's going to be tough, because it's a matter of survival, Minister. It's not a question of numbers. It's a matter of survival. When we finish this curse - I hope at the end of the first half of next year - Greece will have to hit the button at its own pace. Are we gonna make it? How many people won't make it from people on the market? How many operations are going to be closed? How much will unemployment be? So all this also depends on liquidity in the market. That is why I ask you with particular emphasis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u117	Mr Stavura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u118	I'm going to need a little more time, because you've been extended to three, four other issues. I confirm that you have a special interest - and I told my colleague of the Change Movement - in terms of liquidity in the market. I think, however, that you too can confirm that I am providing all the information. Systemically, documentarily I give all the data to the House in order to have a full picture of what really goes to the economy, what goes to the simple neighborhood store, to the very small business. I will not dive in the past, because I too could have opened a debate on political conciliation at the time and who had refused or refused, about the'monetary', about the expansionary budgetary policies at the end of 2009. However, I will make a point: it is indeed a matter of concern throughout Europe to increase deficits and debts. Of course, there is budgetary flexibility. But while you express your concern about deficits and debts, at the same time colleagues from the party ask questions, as today, to increase the deficit and debt, so for even more expansionary budgetary policies. They don't keep up with both of them. Thirdly, the study by the Brigell Institute, which you refer to, also has a footnote, is that the measures are for the first half of 2020. I have tabled the Eurogroup's statement in the minutes last week, which says that budgetary measures in Europe for 2020 are at 4% of GDP. It's in the Minutes. Greece has already exceeded 6.5% of GDP. Based on the information you will see on Friday, which will be submitted to Parliament's draft budget, this year's measures are about 24 billion euros, plus new expansionary aid measures for society in 2021. Because we always have to be close to society and the safety net. These are the brief thoughts outside the core of the question. In particular, with regard to the recent amendment of the Temporary Framework, as you rightly mention, on 13 October the possibility of granting aid in the form of support for uncovered fixed costs, incurred between 1 March 2020 and 30 June 2021, to undertakings which undergo a reduction in turnover of at least 30% during the eligible period of 2019. Absolutely the question and the content you have tabled to the Minister for Finance, Mr President. Uncovered fixed costs, to come to an understanding, are the fixed costs incurred by the undertakings during the eligible period which are not covered by profit, i.e. income minus variable costs, or other sources such as insurance, temporary aid measures covering the Temporary Framework or support from other sources. Aid is granted under a scheme and must not exceed EUR 3 million per undertaking, and the maximum aid intensity is 70% on the eligible costs at the rate of 90% for small and micro-enterprises. It is also noted that the aid under this measure is not cumulated with other aid for the same eligible costs, thus allowing for further aid from the company. This is therefore an additional possibility provided for the creation of a new regime which will be distinct. In other words, it does not come to change the limits or characteristics of another regime. The inclusion of this new option in the Temporary Framework does not mean increasing the limit from 80 000 to 3 000 000. On the contrary, it means that the Member State can shape - and that is what we are doing - a distinct system of aid to enterprises based on the characteristics of the new measure 3.12 of the Temporary Framework. This measure will be exploited by the Greek Government. This was also the aim of the consultation phase prior to the communication of amendment to the Temporary Framework. The Ministry of Finance today is in technical discussions with the European Commission on this measure to complete the new aid scheme for enterprises. A new aid scheme for firms affected and still affected to cover uncovered fixed costs, i.e. part of their losses based on grants, will have a sectoral dimension, will be linked to specific costs incurred by enterprises and will take into account the specificities and characteristics of their size. I have therefore told you the four features which are our proposal to implement the measure to the European Commission. At the same time, the technical processing of new schemes and procedures continues to be carried out to provide state support for enterprises, both within the general framework and within the Temporary Framework, by exploiting all the dimensions of the Greek economy's data and needs. It is therefore a useful tool that has been made available to the Member States by making good use of it to be an important asset in dealing with the consequences of restricting the economic activity of enterprises and preventing the transmission of the coronary. I would like to inform you, always in the context of the clarity that I want to determine our relationship, that the Greek authorities have notified, under the Temporary Framework, over 10 aid schemes. Here you will read less than ten aid schemes. Since the returnee is essentially three phases, it is essentially three. Their total budget is about EUR 10 billion, of which over 50% have already been disbursed. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the next few hours and days, the majority of the 'SURE' programme will be disbursed for Greece - a very large proportion compared to the total - and other schemes will also be tabled. At the same time, however, a number of other measures and schemes have also been included in other frameworks and support procedures in addition to the Temporary Framework. In this respect, the initiatives of the Ministry of Finance continue in a framework of cooperation with the institutions of the European Commission and with all the ministries involved. Thank you again for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u119	Minister, the next two questions concern the same issue, namely concern, insecurity and uncertainty for the workers of the Skaramaga shipyards, so we are saying to discuss them together, without, of course, a minimum reduction in the rights of both Members and your own. It is the sixth question under number 122-11-20 of a second-cycle question from MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject of "Main concern for the employees of the Scaramaga shipyards" and the seventh question under number 127/6-11-2020 on the second-cycle question of the Elea MP of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on "Insecurity and uncertainty for the workers of the Scaramaga Shipyards". If you are aware of this and if you are ready, I would like to add to these two questions if there is any provision for the eighty-six - ninety-two in substance, but eighty-six in fact - workers in the rolling stock that have been transported and work as contractors in the shipyard. If you have any information. I understand that this is a new issue if my colleagues do not say so. Because they're worried too. So we start the process. Mrs. Giannakopoulou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before we begin the debate on the topical question, let me also express my deep grief at the loss of my friend, my patriot, my doctor, the doctor of all of us, the Yiannis Metropoulou. We lost not just a great man, a great scientist, but a man who has always been next to all of us. So I want to express my condolences to Ellie, his wife, and his children. Minister, we are discussing today an issue which is arousing all the workers at the Scaramaga shipyards and which concerns the announcement of their special manager of the sale of their assets. With this notice, I think you are well aware of it, there is no guarantee of jobs in the new body in any case. The lack of care and the lack of commitment on your part, Minister, for the transfer of jobs to the new organisation is deafening and creates a climate of ignorance, a climate of concern, insecurity and risk to workers. Both you and the special administrator, and the new investor - a majority who will emerge - must, you must give the necessary answers. Unfortunately, Minister, we hear that following the meeting of representatives and the shipyard manager with representatives of the Ministry of Defence last July, there was an agreement made by the previous Minister, Mr Pitsorla and the European Commission not to transfer the staff to the new investor. That is why we want you to give us an answer and we ask you to be immediately notified of this written agreement of the previous government with the European Commission. And, of course, we invite you to answer and what is your stance on this matter. But - and you know that very well, Mr Minister - the problem is not just that. In this context, the lack of guarantees for the entire amount of the Greek State due to them, which is the amount of EUR 120,000 000 for the workers’ wages due from 2012 until today, compensation of EUR 12 000 000 to more than two hundred workers, who have left from 2012 until now and amounts resulting from the termination of contracts of employment of around EUR 30 000 000. In other words, we are talking about a total of about EUR 160,000-170,000, 000 million. This debt cannot be covered by the transfer price. Here, then, you, Minister, will have to clarify what is going to happen and how your ministry will resolve the matter and pay off the entire debt. I would also like to ask you what you will do about the amount of EUR 75,000 plus the legitimate interest it has won against the Greek State and in favour of the Greek Shipyards S.A. the International Diet Court. For this amount, workers have seized public hands as a third party to repay part of their employees. Finally, we would like an answer - although this is not so much about you, but above all about the Ministry of Social Security - about what is going to happen with the issues of workers' insurance for the eighteen months from 2012 to 2014. Employees therefore request, by adopting the decision by the Areo Ice, that their money be paid directly by the Greek State to workers in acceptance of their seizure as a third party and not to the special administrator. We would like to see a clear answer to that, in other words, whether you intend to do so, as the judicial decision, Mr Minister, stipulates. We also want you to tell us whether there is, on the part of the European Union, a ban on the transfer of personnel to the new body and, if so, what you intend to do in order to ensure jobs and what steps you will take to repay the sums due to the workers, on the basis of the decisions that I have mentioned to you and in particular the requirements of the International Arbitration Court, such as, of course, your intention to settle the insurance situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, it would be negligent if I did not mention the inappropriate loss of the doctor of the House, Yiannis Mitropoulos, a man of pretext, a scientist of goodness, who had the gift of healing the concerns of all of us only with his smile before going on to his specialist medical advice, which for many of those who are in the Chamber and in the House who had the honour of knowing him over the previous years, proved to be truly salvages. I would like to express the condolences to his relatives and say that surely people are only dying when we forget them. And Giannis Mitropoulos, while he sought to be low tone, was a personality so strong that none of us will forget him. Now, as far as the question is concerned, I think Mrs Giannakopoulou has developed them in detail. Minister, you know very well that the Prime Minister in his speech at PPC on 12 September spoke of a strategic investor who will keep jobs, referring to the Scaramaga shipyards. I tell you exactly as Mr Mitsotakis said in his speech at the IGC on 12 September. However, there is serious concern among the workers, since on page 7 of the invitation, on page 7 of the invitation, there is no binding condition for transferring staff contracts to the new owner, without this being cleared by the Government if it is a written commitment from the European Commission or not because of the well-known case of the recoveries from the Scaramaga shipyards. In the respective cases of the Syrian and Elefsina Shipyards there was a commitment of the new owner for staff, which, at least, at the Syrian shipyard so far we know has been carried out. At the same time, are there specific conditions of competition for the future of the shipyards, and that is why? Firstly, there is no clear condition that the new owner will continue to operate the ENAE as a life-time shipyard by maintaining the same capacity. Secondly, there is no need for the tendering procedure to have experience in the shipbuilding sector or specific business plan for the development of the yards. Thirdly, as a result of the two previous, there is no requirement for a commitment to maintain jobs. Fourthly, for security reasons which define - and rightly define - our options in the armaments programmes have not been predicted to avoid a non-NATO Member State or the European Union to candidate investors as they have done to companies of strategic importance other countries of the European Union, Italy, Germany and several others. We need to know, Minister, if the new owner really is interested in operating at the Scaramaga shipyard as a shipyard with the workers on the front line or simply looking for land and tools to sell, as has already been done with the I and III waterway tanks, tugs and more. The shipbuilding world, Mr Minister, is of no use for other cases of Tavoularis, and this is clear, without any proven experience with the shipyards, but only with the privileged relations with the government in question. That is because there are debts of EUR 162 million to the workers, not covered by the sale price, Mrs Giannakopoulou said so. Jobs for workers who have been suffering for too many years are not guaranteed. And of course, the Navy programme and the construction of the two submarines and new wells will continue. I think there has been a relative discussion with the Ministry. Two questions: How do you think to ensure - if you think - that workers' jobs and the continued operation of HSY as a shipyard, so that workers can continue and continue to work? Secondly, what will you do with the payment of the EUR 75 million, which has been referred to by my colleague - which has been ordered by the International Arbitration Tribunal, which is still pending in Arion Ice for the adoption of the final decision, but also the insurance arrangement for the eighteen-month period of rotation of work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u123	The Minister has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. To begin with, as my dear colleague put it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a strategic objective of the government to restructure the defence and shipbuilding industry and to ensure through this shielding of our national defence. The Scaramaga shipyards are part of this strategic government targeting. The question of their operation and, at the same time, the reopening of ship repair activities is a complex and ambitious project. Complex, mainly but not exclusively, due to the existing gaps before the European Commission and ambitious due to the significant added value of the investment for the country's domestic economic development and defence. In the past one and a half years, a coordinated, coherent effort has been made to re-establish the Greek shipbuilding industry, to claim and to carry out a high level construction project in and out of Greece. In this context, the fact that the Scaramaga shipyards have long experience of a significant construction project is a guarantee for attracting serious investment interest in the tender. The tender notice for the so-called military arm of HSY was published on October 9th, and soon, in the coming weeks, and the corresponding tender for the EBRD assets is expected. In order to maximise potential investment interest and ensure the operational continuity of the enterprise and thereby maintain jobs, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the relevant Ministries of Development and Investment and National Defence and, of course, with the special management - I heard it before - proceeded to a legislative, administrative and political level in order to resolve a series of issues. In particular, the granting of exclusive use of a saint and a seaside space, including the extension of the duration of the concession, the exchange of real estate between HSY and ETAD, the legalisation of arbitrary structures, the completion of outstanding permits and the issue of the necessary certificates, was initiated and initiated. These interventions solve years of problems, such as the access of the shipyard to the sea, with a presumption of the level of the anticipated tenders in the tender. It facilitates the functionality of the company and makes use of facilities and structures necessary for the work of the shipyards, such as the special submarine lifting platform, the ship lift, for the Navy. In any case, the successful outcome of the company’s bid to the majority investor, allegedly of strong and multifaceted interest, is a great bet for the recovery of the shipbuilding industry. In particular, as far as shipyard workers are concerned, a coordinated effort is being made in cooperation with the relevant Ministry, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - this was why a question was answered last week by the Secretary of State for Labour - to design alternative employment and social assistance options. Finding a solution requires compatibility with the Union institutional framework on State aid as the matter is under constant supervision by the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission. There was no underground agreement between the Minister of the previous government and the European Commission. They were the texts of the European Commission. As you know, in the context of the implementation of the decision to recover the Committee, HSY was placed under a special management regime by a decision of the Monomele Court of Athens. Under this scheme the company’s assets should be divested into open, public tenders on strict terms. As set out in the Communication from the European Commission 2019/C247/01 on the recovery of unlawful State aid, the lack of economic continuity of the recipient of State aid with the new owner of the company’s assets must be ensured. We also have something in the LARCO. The Committee shall continuously assess, on a case-by-case basis, a set of non-cumulative criteria and shall take into account a number of critical indicators until the completion of the sale of all assets of HSY. One of these indicators is the non-connection of the sale of HSY’s assets with the continuation of labour contracts. Otherwise, the European Commission would consider that the 2008 recovery decision was being circumvented. I note that the previous government was in line with the European Commission in respect of meeting these criteria. I would also remind you that the Hellenic Republic was condemned by the Court of Justice of the European Union in November 2018 due to prior non-compliance with the decision to recover a flat-rate fine of EUR 10 million and a financial penalty of EUR 7.3 million per six months in the implementation of this decision. The first six-monthly fine has already been imposed on us. Ladies and gentlemen, by approaching these restrictions with realism and morality, particularly in the context of a health crisis and always with the necessary terms of sound financial management, we are working with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in order to find solutions to labour relations with a view to finding a new investor. Specific meetings have already been held with the Ministers responsible and Secretary-General at the Ministry of Labour. All the issues raised in this area are dealt with in terms of active employment contracts, possible employment enhancement measures, as well as measures aimed at the insurance of their workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u126	You said very well, Minister, that it is a strategic objective for your Government to continue operating the Scaramaga shipyards. You told us a lot and a lot of good, but you did not say anything about the substance of the matter at all. Nothing at all. And obviously your answer doesn't cover me either. And obviously because you didn't tell us anything at all to secure workers' positions, but you wash your hands and "fly the ball" a little at the Ministry of the Interior, a little bit at the Ministry of Labour, a little here, a little there, we're not satisfied. Of course, the way in which you are going to cover, Mr Stakoura, the previous government, the government of SYRIZA, is indicative, and we are told that there was no underground agreement. You know, we didn't talk about an underground deal - to get together here. We asked you why it came to our attention - since the meeting I told you representatives of the shipyards with the Ministry of Defence - that there was an agreement of the previous Minister with the European Commission. We asked you, then, gladly. And because we have not received a reply, I ask you again and I ask you to answer it clearly whether there is such a disapproval and agreement with the European Commission from the previous government, which, as we hear from you now, you intend to continue. Please do not evade and answer this question. It is unacceptable and it is unfair to treat workers as weights. Because that's what you're doing with what you're telling us and doing nothing. And of course it must, and we call for it to be a movement of change, a commitment and you can do that, even if there is disagreement from the European Union. The government can demand and make a commitment to the new agency before the transfer for employment to the new agency of all workers today under contracts of indefinite duration. You can put pressure on it. You can do it. It's happened in the past. We invite you to do this and not just wash your hands. It is your duty, therefore, to deal with the matter seriously and responsibly, because you are the most responsible person in the Scaramaga shipyards business. And, of course, do not forget, Minister, your commitment to a direct return of the sum, which has been ordered by the Arbitration Court to workers immediately after the Ice Bay judgment. Because it's the only way that workers get their jobs, get their money. We expect to see your attitude on this issue too. To conclude, what we are seeking from you, Minister, is to exhaust all possible ways to impose - whether you want - or to seriously give up or not to seriously deal with the new investor, prior to the transfer of the commitment, to commit to employing and absorbing all the employees and, of course, to making a clear commitment that you will pay the workers directly to the amount that the International Dietary Court has won in favour of HSY for paying part of the money due to them, part of their wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that Mrs Giannakopoulos, Mrs Giannakoulou, has rightly pointed out your absolute sense, Minister, in the matter of the Scaramaga shipyards with the previous government, and in relation to the strategy and in relation to the framework that has been launched before, it has been implemented all the previous period and is now in its final phase at the end of the competition. And that is of particular value because - you remember, Mr President, I imagine - the SYRIZA before it became a government said that it would stack the shipyards. Remember Mr. Kammenos here, at the Step of the House, every time SYRIZA voted, he was talking about Safah and the deal with Safah. And then, Mr. Pittsorlas called Mr. Venizelos as a witness of defense, so that recovery would not come back. We remember these things. Because we have to talk. And we remember, after all, what happened with the special management decision. Minister, you should be aware that this debate is being followed by seven hundred eighty-eight workers today at the Scaramaga shipyards. I could name them one by one. Because we in the Change Movement have stable, timeless and incomprehensible relations with these workers. We know their concern and interest, in order to keep the shipyards and the suffering that has passed over the past few years with the decisions on rotating work and all that, which every three and a few minutes come to Parliament - you know, Minister - for extensions of contracts with the Navy, although those people can be paid, even if they take less than 65% before - so that they can survive. On insurance matters, I should like to make a reply from Mr Boutsis to our question entitled 'Insurance and uncertainty for workers in Scaramaga shipyards'. It's seven pages. I really don't understand what the Minister wants to say. He's absolutely not committed to anything. He's just quoted the facts. Please keep her. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There are publications on reduced value of the yards. I don't know if it's meant to be sold at the lowest possible price. And what we are interested in at the same time in the future of the shipbuilding industry is the maintenance of the jobs of the workers. But here, one is connected with the other. And it is linked, because if the investor has no plans to invest in shipyards and how to make the shipbuilding industry an added value for the country, it is clear that he will not have any interest in keeping workers. And to avoid divestment or partial divestment of the country's largest shipyard, the Scaramaga shipyards, is a matter which raises a number of issues relating to safety, transport and defence of the country for the benefit of, unfortunately, the Turkish shipyards. No method of verification has been provided for in the call for tenders from natural or legal persons associated with Turkish interests. That is clear to me, Minister. I said it in my first talk and I didn't get an answer. And of course, these are key points in the evaluation process before the list of offers opens. Workers are currently continuing to experience an insecurity situation rightly, Mr President, seeing the development of the Syrian shipyards and - I would like to believe - in the Elefsina shipyards. Because, finally, it turns out that the evidence given on debts is not exactly what they had seen the light of publicity. And it needs to be cleared up at some point too. It's not your business. But the government must make it clear what is happening with the Elefsina shipyards. The workers at the Scaramaga shipyard should therefore receive a concrete answer. Do you intend through the choice that you will make in line with these conditions of competition, so that the shipyards can go to a man, to an investor who really wants to give breath to the Scaramaga shipyard, so that he can keep the workers and, in this way, even with the difficulty of comprehensible to the decision of the European Commission which cannot automatically transfer the workers, that there is a commitment that these workers will find jobs in a shipyard that is open, will have a prospect and be able to be the flagship of the shipbuilding industry in the country? In this respect, therefore, the workers who are listening to you at the moment - and you know that - are waiting for concrete answers, timetables and political commitments that you will exhaust all margins so that none of those who have been troubled for so many years will suddenly not find themselves outside the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u129	Allow me, Mr Stakoura, just a minute. Because it is a matter in which I have worked for too many years and I hear things which, at least, are not accurate. I'm not telling you. I'm saying, in general. The total project at the Scaramaga shipyard was to be divided into two pieces, one being the military piece linked to the shipyard across the street and the other being the commercial piece that is privatized. Together, the workers would have gone. What I hear is the dissolution of the Scaramaga shipyard, why can't the worker ever go? When I sell a crane to the shipyard that currently belongs to the Red Sea, or I don't know which other shipyard, and of course I don't get the crane worker, I only take the crane. So reservoir 5, the space around the tank 5 etc., which is absolutely marketable could go. The third place that is currently the refugees, the refugee camp, is rightfully in the public and the gain of the Ministry of Finance on Mr. Tsakalotou and now on Mr. Stavoura goes to the public and does not belong to the HSY. So I hope we're back in a period before 2015. And I must say that, of course, the state has a constant burden on the government of Mr Samaras and the 75 million. Safah owes them, just takes the state for taking the shipyards from Safah. That's the process. Anyway, I don't want to use my place. I myself will come back with a debate on the respective committee or here in the House. I imagine the Minister will also want to strengthen the positions of the workers, as will those who are currently working at the shipyard, the shipyard and do a very serious job. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, you can make a parliamentary question at any time and ask me and answer you. I will continue to stand in realism, in terms of economic efficiency and yes, social justice, with responsibility, because that is what my institutional role defines, far from populism and late interest. Because I cannot hear the break-up of the shipyards when we have been legislating for a long time and have not seen any questions put to Parliament for this part. There is a continuation in the state, indeed there are special management regimes found by the current government, as they have been fined since November 2018. So the government also has to respect the money of Greek taxpayers. The bill came a few weeks ago for 7.3 million euros. The first fine was imposed despite the fact that we are moving forward with the second piece you say at the Scaramaga shipyard. We are moving forward and yet the European Commission is imposing a fine even today. And yes, in the previous period, we have improved many conditions of the competition just so that there can be greater investment interest. And yes, there will be the second competition not by the State in the sense of the Ministry of Finance, but as I said by the EBRD, because there are specific roles and the EBRD by the previous government, as we know, belongs to the excess. As I said, therefore, the Ministry of Finance continues to work methodically in order to maximise the investment interest and ensure the operational continuity of the company. Undoubtedly, a serious investment in Scaramaga shipyards will also create new jobs and new jobs. But also the continuation of shipbuilding - rightly asked - is also linked to existing jobs, as well as to the settlement of outstanding employment issues. All this is indeed a government priority, Mr President. In this context, following the successful completion of the tender, part of the employees’ requirements, accrued and others, which were born and relate to the period prior to HSY’s position in a specific management, will be met by the special management liquidation product by ranking them in the list of creditors. At the same time, with the actions taken to ensure the successful completion of the competitive process and the maintenance of jobs in the Scaramaga shipyards under a new property regime, alternative solutions are considered, as I said, along with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, for example, the implementation of training programmes and the resettlement of workers and the facilitation of the retire ment of those who are very close to the pension line. On the question of employee employees and on the settlement of the related insurers for the eighteen-month period, from April 2012 to September 2013, sustainable solutions are already being sought with all the parties involved and the employees' representatives, with whom the Government is in dialogue. The payment of employees' employees for the critical period, as you know, is pending in Greek justice. We are working with the Ministry of Labour to ensure that workers are not harmed and that their insurance rights are protected. Detailed replies to these were given a week ago under parliamentary scrutiny by the relevant State Secretary, Mr Tsakloglu. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen your questions. It's the same anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u131	Only you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u132	Is the timely question by my colleague entitled 'Is there a ban on the transfer of personnel from the European Commission', while the question by my colleague: 'Is there a ban on the transfer of personnel?' I saw your questions, it's the same and you'll get the answers you have to answer these questions. I believe, however, that we feel that the medium to long-term goodwill of shipbuilding and labour issues are interdependent. One affects and is influenced by the other. The Ministry of Finance and the Government are making a concerted effort to solve chronic problems, which creates the conditions for the completion of the project for the benefit of all the parties involved and the workers. The recovery of shipbuilding investment will not only create new jobs, but also lay the foundations for maintaining skilled human resources in the sector and in related sectors of activity, while safeguarding national interests. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, your thoughts are reasonable. It is, however, covered in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence. We are working towards this by broadening all the prospects of creating a new, modern shipbuilding base, which will provide the country with new jobs and productive wealth. At the same time, however, we are creating infrastructure for its defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate on the topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-16-S1-commons.u134	With the consent of the House at 19.57 the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 17 November 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work (a) an anniversary event for the 47th anniversary of the Polytechnic uprising and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
