ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report of Wednesday 21 October 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis under number 70/16-10-2020 is a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "It does not apply the existing legislation that protects Persons with Disabilities. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 75/19-10-20 by MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "High-health and dangerous work for the workers of the three state theatres". 3. The 71/19-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "In despair the affected farmers - farmers of Karditsa." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 78/19-10-2020 of Mr Kegeroglou's MP, Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The prolonged restrictive measures in certain prefectures also impose, directly and directly and indirectly, support measures for enterprises, professionals, farmers, workers, unemployed and vulnerable social groups." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Follow it from 24.9.20" amendment from 26.7.2018 Donation Convention between the Greek State, the Joint Foundation called "Alexandrous S. SAIS (ALEXANDER S. ONASSIS PUBLIC BENEFIT FOURDATION"), based in Vaduz by LIECHTENSTEIN, and the Onassis Cardiff Centre (N.P.I.), urgent arrangements to address the risk of the spread of COVID-19 and other provisions.’ The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 15 October 2020, to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. The record will be free. The system will be opened as soon as the new Republic's rapporteur Mr.Jikalajas comes to the fore and the SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr. Markou, will be shut down as soon as the step is taken. I think there is no objection to this basic procedural proposal. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u2	The House has unanimously agreed and we can start with Mr Tzokalaya, who has the floor for 15 minutes. Please open the registration system. Mr. Jekalaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Health. But let me catch the health yarn today from where she stayed yesterday. And I am referring to the important event of the inauguration by the Prime Minister of a very large intensive treatment unit at the Salvation Hospital, with a capacity of fifty beds. It is an honor to us as a Parliament of the Greeks, which is a donation of the Greek Parliament. The government and the rest of the parties of all the anti-population that have been involved understand that we have a difficult road ahead of us in the winter coming for the Koroni pandemic, but we do everything we can. A sample of writing on this is the inauguration of this very large, very modern intensive treatment unit at the Salvation Hospital, which has a lot to offer. The bill we are debating today is important. In its first chapter, in the first article, it has a question of ratifying the amendment of a contract that was made two years ago. We are once again talking about a great donation from national benefactors and great donors of the nation. This contract is between the Foundation of Onassis, the Greek State and the Onassisian Heart Surgery Centre. So far we know what a great world name the "Cardiocratic Center" has and how great, huge his offer is. From the debate that took place at the four meetings of our committees, it was found that the best guarantees for the effectiveness of this convention, which we will proceed, are the excellent cooperation between the three participants, the Alexandros Onassis Foundation, the administration of the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre and the workers, as shown by the positions of all. It's a donation that has a ceiling of 70m euros. We define that the implementation body will be a company, ARIONA GREECA, because it is not possible for the Onassis Foundation, which is based abroad, to make this construction, and the important thing is that completion will be until June 2024 and perhaps earlier. The most important things are the construction of a new wing of the Cardio-surgery Centre, the reconstruction of rooms and spaces of the existing autonomous building and the renewal of part of the equipment, the equipment of the "National Transplant Centre", the creation of a helicoway and - which will be original for Greece - the construction of a modern and fully renewed paediatric clinic, specializing in cardiology and cardio-surgery. So, Mr President, from now on we will obviously be able to talk about a great 'child Union'. The tax exemptions to be applied in the implementing body as a successor to the institution's obligations in the donation contract are also provided for in this Convention. The whole bill has very important things that we have worked on in the discussions we have had in the committees and in the hearing of the bodies. We upgrade the National Transplant Organisation, creating an organisation with very high requirements and specifications. We know how far back we are in Greek transplants in terms of donation, that we do not have organ donations, and that is why we need to do as much as we can. I am thinking particularly of the kidneys in donations of the other compact organs. That is why we predict cooperation with qualified staff and seek to find a way of paying them through proof of service. We provide for the Anonymous Society of Health Units to enter the process of transferring personnel, because there were problems, for the best function then. There are also extensions of fixed-term private-law contracts relating to the staff of the Ministry of Health's central service. We're setting up family doctors for services they've provided. We're doing a reconstruction in the National Drug Action Plan. It's a big deal about the drugs. It remains a scourge and we must constantly improve and modernise the measures and decisions we take in this direction. We refer to Articles 7, 8 and 9 for daily care units. We want to work better on daily care units, because, in fact, these are primary health care, and if they work properly, they are a very good brake in not going to secondary and tertiary hospitals. Thus, we regulate organisational and urban issues relating to daily care units, such as how medical operations are performed with local anaesthesia, ophthalmology medical operations, personnel and proportion issues in composition, such as being at least one nursing worker per surgical room and a movement nurse per two surgical rooms. We do, by paying, extraordinary expenses incurred by various health centres. It is true that the pandemic in March invented certain medical actions to prevent and deal with the incidents with a coronary and thus they must be paid. I continue by saying that, in view of the important role the intensive care units have to play, and because we were back as a country, we knew, we said, we have done it by the most qualified scientific and professionally, which is why we do not stop much effort, which they do. With today's bill, we create fifty positions of doctors specialising in intensive hospitalization, three hundred specializations in intensive hospitalization and ninety-nine nursing staff posts and a hundred physiotherapists for intensive care units, which - let me say again - are related to transplants, because beyond the campaign and culture to be changed, we have organ donors, we know that organs are being taken from intensive care units. There some of our fellow citizens - unfortunately - may be brain dead and there must be the appropriate procedures for the process to get the organs started and to be given to those who are anxiously waiting for them to take life. We regulate debts of MAH holders. We are also dealing with the doctors' penal code, because we know that there are always excesses, overregistrations. Clearly, and when there is an act of accreditation, there will be the cost of the recipe increased by 50%, but we are reducing the fine. Where it was from EUR 3 000 to EUR 15 000 we put the threshold at EUR 1 000 to EUR 15 000, depending on the frequency and gravity of the infringements. For intangible referrals, I will say that it is a great incision and a great offer of the Ministry of Digital Governance. It solved too many problems in March, April, May, when the doctors were recruited, where the battles were being given to save lives, but there was a lot of population, all the chronicly suffering were looking for their doctor, looking for their recipe, and so with intangibles there are many issues solved and so we have to regulate some things for payments that were made at the time. I come to Article 16 where we are talking about ordering costs committed or unconscious of specific treatments, such as the treatments, therapies, the treatments, the treatments and physical treatments. It is taken care to pay those who did not have contracts and to continue to deal with the facts in the same way until the signature of the contracts. But allow me, Minister, as a majority rapporteur, to raise an issue which I have been working on and discussed with the Secretary-General these days, as far as pedophysic therapists or physiotherapists are concerned. It's a special charge. There is a certain number of them. It's specific work they provide, because no child goes for physiotherapy if it doesn't belong to the special category. They are children with serious genetic health problems, such as brain paralysis and so many other conditions. There is a personal relationship between the natural therapist and the parent and the child. It can't be replaced by an assistant or partner. The treatment is daily and long hours. It can't be easily replaced, break this relationship. So I suggest that the government accepts the exception of physiotherapists or pedophysiotherapists, so that they can continue to offer their services to children without signing a special contract, because otherwise, what we will certainly have is the deterioration of this care provision to these children with special needs and certainly reasonable concerns and protests from parents. We provide for the compensation of the EGE and the public health mobile units, as well as for the way in which exceptional recruitment can take place until 31 December. For the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology, which plays an important role, because it has a closed budget and has a responsibility with this bill, the purchase of medicinal products on behalf of hospitals, we are giving the Ministry of Digital Governance an extension for procurement. In this way we will have an offer to software and distance work. The Ministry of Digital Governance is a pan-Hellenicly accepted that it has made cuts, which write history in the service of the citizen and in the modernisation of our country. We take care of the extension of the working relationships of all grades, medical, nursing and other specialties, until 31-10-2021. I just want to believe with the debate I have had with the Secretary-General that this, of course, has retroactive effect for those who have come to an end these days. I know cases also within October that ended certain contracts and I think it goes without saying that they should be covered too, in order to get an extension of up to 30-10-2020. We take care to prescribe opioids and relieve pain. As I have said to the committees, the aim of medicine is twofold: on the one hand, there is an extension of life and, on the other hand, relief from pain. It is very important that we take measures to help relieve suffering and suffering great pain among our fellow humans. We also have arrangements for the recipes for the chronic illnesses. As I said before about recipes, people should not be conspired just to get their recipe. When the recipe has to be six months, it should be six months. Such facilities are provided in this article, as in the electronic prescribing system, the well-known SPC, which is a procedure that provides for very serious chronic or even so-called orphan disease. We're increasing this year's budget. We are, in fact, making a complementary state budget for 2020. In the Ministry of Development and Investment's Public Investment Programme we put EUR 1.21 billion into the national strand and EUR 500 million to the co-financed. We also have a number of amendments which have come and had to be done. The request is accepted by all the wings of extending the term of office of the management boards of pharmaceutical cooperatives which expired at the end of the year and which must expire on 30 April, as they request. It is Amendment No 523. The amendment under number 519 concerns ELGA, the 'January', the deadlines to 'run' for our fellow citizens to be relieved in the areas suffering a great deal of bad weather. This amendment extends to agricultural cooperatives. There is also Amendment 522 which has many interesting things for the EEAS, for the recruitment of subsidiary medical staff. I think the ministers will be able to develop it more. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that this draft law is an undeniable necessity. With the introduction of regulations we are called upon to resolve a number of health issues that have become more acute with the emergence of the health crisis. The health sector and the services provided to citizens are being upgraded by this bill, so that they can respond to increasing needs. For all these reasons, I urge you all to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u4	Mr Constantine Marcou, SYRIZA's general rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. We therefore have the final procedure for voting on this bill that came from the government. I would say that the government from the start of its term of office so far divides its practice into two areas: the pre-curry and post-currency. During the pre-Koronian period, both from the declarations and from the beginning of its term of office, and from its actions, its activity has been only used in two directions. One is the overthrow of almost all the procedures and initiatives established by the SYRIZA Government, which - many of them - have already been "running". A simple example is the notices for new posts, etc. The second direction that has been taken is the launch of the implementation of the neoliberal selection strategy, which is the collapse of the public health system and the entry of the private sector with conditions of profitability into the system. That was the data to the coronary. The coroner came, and that's where things were prevented. First of all, at least at the moment, we do not believe that the liberal drafts of the introduction of the profitable and profitable private sector into public hospitals have left the government's mind. At the same time, the self-evident need to strengthen the public sector was created, which is the area where the coronary is currently being treated. The characteristic of this second approach is that all the Government's initiatives to strengthen the public sector are temporary and I would say in many cases also contradictory. This is because on the back of the political thought of the government majority it is to give the coronary opportunity to some people, but not to give the self-evident, i.e. to strengthen the public health system. And that's why their choices have the character of temporaryity. Of course, the coronary is still in front of us and these dilemmas will come daily, unfortunately, by stepping up. And if this general political view is not overturned, then the government will be responsible for serious, I would say, political crimes against science and society. And I'm only talking about two. What more scientifically understandable than the need to strengthen primary health care? That is what the government has now started to adopt. And at the same time what more self-evident, even with this bill, than that primary health care is not only strengthened, but at the same time weakened? I'm going to make some specific arguments about this. The second self-evident thing is: What more effective for managing, as far as possible, the problem from the implementation and the introduction of prescribing the tests? What's simpler? The citizen who has a health problem, who may be a coronary or may not be, should be addressed to his doctor, or to the public in the primary care of what is present, either to the private person, as everyone goes with a fever, and within the tests prescribed by doctors, on the basis of their scientific responsibility, to prescribe the test. And don't need students running in private so they can run tests so they can go to class. Do not need patients who are going to operate in scheduled surgery to run private tests. Do not need, if you like, the common citizens who have a common cold and which has to be evaluated as such, go do the test. Thousands of tests are prescribed every day by doctors on what we say checkups. Why not add to prescribing and conducting the test? It's incomprehensible. We are now coming more specifically to the bill. First of all, I would say that the process that has been followed so far has degraded Parliament and parliamentary practice literally. We had four meetings in the committee in which the House read the explanatory statement in the bill, we tabled our objections, our proposals, our disagreements and the political leadership did not receive a single comment on the substance of the bills. Not a single comment! In other words, the procedure of the four meetings was as if it had not taken place. All Mr. Kontozamanis had to say about physiotherapists and throw us the ball on the platform. We are telling him the problem with the physico-therapists - I hope that this turn of the majority rapporteur means a turn of the ministry - and his comment is that we hire a hundred young physico-therapists in intensive care units. Good for you. We welcome it, too, but that's not what we talked about. On the substance of the bill now. Obviously, we welcome this convention with the UN Convention, which is an extension of the contract which has been initiated by the SYRIZA Government and which is entering into its final straight. As the President of the "Onaesios" Mr Papademiriou said, cooperation with the SYRIZA Government and with the present it was impeccable and for this fundamental work is carried out at a pace which is fast and effective. Let us now come to a number of sub-groups, particularly to catch up to the end of the amendment which came from the government yesterday, which is more or less a new bill and which proves what I have said in committee, that this is a photo and a genome. What else is it, if it's not a gonatogram, when a complete overthrow of the ETA comes? We'll really see what consequences it has. The main draft law provides for provisions on the EGE, and indeed this unprecedented provision in which the recruitment of staff will take place in the order of priority. Whoever saw the Lord! After this whole EGE procedure we see in the amendment was to come, what did EGE articles mean in the main bill? It is obviously a lack of seriousness and urgency. Secondly, regarding the amendment: Articles 5 and 9. Further deforestation of primary health care may be allowed. That is to say, what has already started and seen from the complaints that they have health centers and TOMMs leaving doctors and go to the Civil Protection even. How can you say that sovereign is primary health care in dealing with the EGE and here to legislate on deforestation of primary health care? That's not serious. We are now coming to a number of sub-groups which we have simply distinguished as truly much more knots than the others. Articles 7, 8 and 9 concerning daily care units shall make a complete overthrow of the international philosophy of daily care units. The Government, in obeying specific interests, known as the Ministry's previous term of office, substantially transforms daily care units into small private clinics. That's not her philosophy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u6	You can tell us those interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u7	Minister, thank God I hear you in the middle of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u8	Tell us the interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u9	I would say rather, you have to state which interests you have been called upon to support. We refused them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u10	If you know how to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u11	Please, now. What, then, is it when the beds in a daily care unit become what that institution wants? That's a clinic. The daily care unit is to go in the morning, make a micro-intervention and leave at night. When they become infinite - shaped speech - beds, that becomes a clinic. What seriousness is it when a scientific officer can be in many daily care units? What scientific responsibility will he have? He'll just lend his seal, just like engineers do to make announcements. We're coming to the physicotherapists. Indeed, the turn made by the majority rapporteur may promote the government's elementary. In other words, it is not mentioned that physico-therapists can make contracts with the public, such as therapists, therapists, physico-therapists. Much worse, it has not so far been mentioned - especially for children in need, as mentioned by Mr Jikalaya, the lifelong support from physico-therapists - how these procedures can be supported. We are talking about irreversible regulation, which leaves all children with unconventional physiotherapists, which require life support. Much worse - because a little pregnant is worse than at all or pregnant - they are divided into two categories: those who have so far been supported and those who start from now. In fact, for those who have been supported so far, it is referred to 'until the end of treatment'. What is the end of such treatment? The end of the annual contract, of the annual support? Because these children want this treatment for the rest of their lives. What is the end of this treatment? We are now coming to the EGE's recruitment. The partner Xanthos will be mentioned in the changes to the amendment in detail, as will the other comrades. What I would like to mention - and I have referred to the committees - is recruitment. Whoever got there saw the Lord! This is a memorial of arbitrariness and pelate rule. The article reads: 'In subsidiary staff, it leaves the possibility of an extension', without implying that his term of office should be extended. It goes away, at the disposal of the commander, means hostage to the workers and means undermining the coronary treatment process. We said photographs too. The New Helper Reproduction Authority. We've got a start right now, which works excellently, which upgraded the whole process. We have a management structure, which is one of the best in Europe. The responsibility of the authority is the only one who issued directives on pregnancy during the Coronovirus period, at a pan-European level. And the government is coming to say that it is being abolished and building a new one, where they can be in charge and retired. Not even peers from members. Not even peers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u12	Do you have anything with the retired?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u13	Finally, as far as the funding of the health system is concerned. There is a communication arrangement, which says that it increases funding. At the same time, unfortunately, we are also discussing the budget. On page 31, which records the cost part of the Health Care Hospital, the estimate of expenditure, as to be made at the end of 2020, shall indicate an amount of EUR 2,735 million. In the next column, where the forecast for 2021 shows, an amount of EUR 2,704 million, i.e. a reduction of EUR 35 million in health expenditure, within the pandemic by the present government. It's in the citizens' judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u15	Because the Minister wants to give an explanation so that the same matter is not repeated, I will give him the floor for three minutes. Here you go, Minister, please speak from place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, thank you. As far as my position on the bill is concerned, I will expect all the rapporteurs and special speakers to complete their positions, as well as the first six colleagues, from all the parties, who will speak. You will allow me to say that in the House we are coming, by expressing our opinion as a government and by seeking the maximum possible consensus on what has to do with laws and specific provisions which have to do with safeguarding the quality of health services, human life, care in the middle of a pandemic. I therefore believe that everyone should be given personal responsibility. Of course, “man’s authority ” means that everyone in the way he is placed, his life and his state in the previous period, declares what he considers to be his behaviour, the way he wants to be placed within Parliament and is judged accordingly. In these fourteen months, Mr. Colleague, the political leadership of the Ministry of Health has given no right, but no right, in its actions, to question its integrity and morality. And I'll give an example. In the midst of a pandemic, while it would be possible, on the basis of the existing legislation, to have the political leadership of the Ministry of Health never even proceeded with a delegation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u17	Minister, we can't hear you. If you want to take the mask off, because you don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u18	Yes, sir. What matters with issues of morality, values and principles each here in the way it is placed, conducts itself as a political entity, respects Parliament and fellow Members, if any, has beenhaved in what has to do with life and its state when it has a place of responsibility, is judged. I think that we are beyond all our personal and group responsibility towards the Greek society in terms of pandemic, value of life and public health. I have discussed this many times with my colleagues, former ministers at the Ministry of Health and colleagues in the Cooperative, who support the Government's initiatives, but also with the opposition of what has to do with this pandemic. I would say, therefore, that we do not even accept a fly in our sword, especially in matters of principle. It would be nice before this meeting ended to withdraw what you said from the Step, because this government and the leadership of the Ministry of Health do not accept a fly in its sword on ethical issues. He has never served any interest. For this reason, I am telling you that, in the mid-term of a pandemic that was in existence, if and since we chose it for public health reasons, we did not go through either direct assignment and all these procedures, with the extraordinary tragedy of the moments, either for the test or for the personal protective equipment, were carried out through tenders. Going up to this Step and speaking as you speak, with great ease, showing right and left and denounced, the Deputy Minister told you if you have any evidence to bring them, if you think that a process is controlled, please do so, not words and fanatical policies. The work and the state of each of us is judged, ladies and gentlemen, by the way in which it has beenhaved within Parliament over the previous period. And one last thing. Do you have any problem with retired people, with people who have fought a lifetime, have studied, eaten their pants and skirts in the cobbleds, completed a career and can be exploited by the Greek state? Do you have any issues? Do you have a matter of racism with the older ages? Do you think that a scientist who has reached the peak of his career and has completed is not capable of paying a start?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. It closes the registration system and is now called at Step the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in our country is unfortunately getting worse every day. The government has many open fronts in defending our territorial integrity, in immigration, in the economy, in the European Union. This is an extremely critical period at each level. However, the main area which concerns us all is the preservation of public health. This is an obligation for the state to protect the constitutionally guaranteed right to health, the supreme good of life. Undoubtedly, the donations made in the middle of a coronary to strengthen the National Health System are a large financial instrument. The Change Movement has repeatedly stressed their importance for the regeneration of the ESS. Donations can be made available to fight for the strengthening of public health for the benefit of all citizens regardless of economic impact. In particular, the donation of the Foundation "Alexandros Onassis" comes to add value and dynamic value to the National Health System. We believe it is self-evident that all citizens will have access to these state-of-the-art health structures and services. In particular, the establishment of the “National Transplant Centre” constitutes a particularly positive development that integrates Greece into the map of countries with the most modern infrastructure in the transplantation of solid organs. In this area we are firmly in a low position. However, infrastructure alone is not enough. On the one hand, the donation of organs must be made aware of the citizens. On the other hand, it takes organisation, executives, scientific staff and centralised design, as well as private clinical integration in the process of detecting potential donors to form an integrated system for monitoring, coordinating and exploiting voluntary supply. In this direction we have not yet seen anything from the government, as we have also seen the preparation and implementation of a concrete and clear central planning for the organisation of the ESS for the next pandemic wave. For example, you run the new IF beds in public hospitals because you left the time unexploited to date. At the same time, manage the new ICU beds with subsidiary and secondments from other hospitals that are gradually declining and dismantled. The excuse you are suggesting that this is a specific number of extracts of experienced health care in order to train doctors who will be recruited in the new posts you are announcing on the staffing of the ICMs is not convincing. You knew that COVID - 19 came to stay. You should therefore have planned permanent recruitment and the timely organisation and training of staff, in particular in the ICMs. You have designated reference hospitals in Athens and in the region but have not taken the necessary measures to protect health workers from the spread of the virus. Already this is recorded by the quarantine incidents that we see daily in health staff and which are constantly growing day after day. With Article 11 you recommend a thousand eight hundred staff posts for intensive care units. They are welcome, but why did you need eight months to schedule them? When will these doctors get into the units? What are the motives you offer our scientists to serve our hospitals? Here you do not incorporate nurses and paramedical staff into the heavy and unhealthy health care and you do not legalize subsidiary doctors, despite your promises and assurances that everyone needs in the National Health System. The Change Movement has already submitted and re-assigns an amendment to the inclusion of nurses and paramedical staff in heavy and unhealthy. In honour of offering the doctors, we have also tabled an amendment on self-taxation on newspapers. We ask you to accept them. Recruitment that you claim has been made to meet the exceptional needs of dealing with the pandemic has not yet appeared in the operation of the system. Which services have they finally placed? Because it is worth wondering that, while we are in the pandemic crisis, you bring back articles relating to the recruitment of subsidiary staff either to hospitals, to EACH, or to Civil Protection. Isn't there a central planning for recruitment? You seem to be hiring people with the logic of "seeing and doing". You are constantly taking reluctant, incomplete steps, both in terms of the organisation of the NGOs. For example, you do not anticipate in the article you brought about their cooperation with primary health care structures, local self-government grades 1 and 2, or from local medical clubs in order to complete the management of the incidents that will be monitored at home. Their function is up to the EGE, but he has experienced serious problems. These are problems of response, reaction and planning to the spread of the pandemic. You have turned the EGE into a huge mechanism with the possibility of countless intakes without special qualifications to deal with the pandemic. However, the results that it brings are not satisfactory and that is because we see that it constantly runs down, as a result of events and incidents. What design has been made for closed structures? What have you done for the nursing homes and the preservation of the lives of our elderly? Will you finally give an account of how many people have been hired to the EGE and where are they employed? How many people do they eventually need to deal with the pandemic? How long will you extend the employment contracts for those employed in the EGE holding them in a hostage scheme? Finally, even reveal your purposes for primary health care. You are announcing the operation of health centers in Attica and the region, for the reception of patients, without having arranged for specially designed spaces for COVID-19 incidents and a similar fee for testing. Moreover, you have done nothing to reduce the suffering of patients who choose health centers. On the contrary, you added the mandatory telephone appointments to patients with symptoms, a choice without logic and without social sensitivity. You prolong the contracts of family doctors, but their future remains uncertain. You choose to compensate for the diagnostic tests of private laboratories at what price they are invoiced. The fact that you supply them EUR 10 per tonne, as you say, and you pay them more than many times to individuals who supply them at the same price or at a similar price does not constitute a burden on the budgets of the PSOs? When do you plan to price out the tests? You broaden the possibility of employing more private doctors in the system by allowing the creation, within the National Health System, of doctors of two speeds and wages and work as well. Convert daily care units to small clinics, abolishing the maximum number of permitted surgical beds and surpassing their urban defects pending in the relevant services. Increase medical operations with local anaesthesia without at the same time taking measures for patient safety while reducing the qualifications of nursing personnel. You give the possibility of increasing private beds by 40% without conditions and without provision for increasing their staff at the same time. Why are you limiting the free choice of a physiotherapist only for people under the special treatment provided for in Article 45 of the EEA single benefit regulation, forcing them to address only to consentees? At the same time, you create insecurity for the medical and nursing staff of the ESS when you confess to integrating insurance companies into the public health system by throwing the bait on allegedly increasing their earnings. In fact, after the end of the pandemic, do you intend to open the door to the privatisation of the ERC by hiring beds to private insurance companies and disrupting citizens' equal access to the public health system? But even in matters requiring national planning, you are falling short of speed and results. For example, we are still waiting for your national drug strategy. Once again, you are confined to the mess of the deck at administrative level, so that you have the administrative control over the national drugs committee without it being accompanied by policy production. Even in the matter of medically assisted reproduction your purpose is to control the national authority. That's why you're making changes to the administrative model and allow the President's position to be taken by a professor or deputy professor of a higher education institution in active or non-active, obviously having a particular person in your mind. The question, however, of medically assisted reproduction is much more important than the simple settlement of virtues in positions of responsibility. What are your aims to improve the existing legislative framework to follow developments in medicine and biotechnology? You're increasing hospital expenses to cover drugs. But what do you intend to do with clawback? Will you streamline the pharmaceutical expenditure on the basis of specific institutionalised and commonly accepted rules? Will you reduce clawback and rebate to a percentage that will serve the public interest, but at the same time will not lead the pharmaceutical companies to an economic dead end? Unfortunately, the lack of planning in the field of health and vision-free management complements your interventions in the EEA administration model. The EEA is the biggest health reform since the ESDP in 1983. With the operation of nine years now, in spite of all the difficulties, the recurring effects of the previous SYRIZA government, as well as the reduced funding from the state budget, have done to the greatest extent possible the purpose for which it was created. Along with e-prescription, which is also a PASOK project, it managed to reduce the waste in both the pharmaceutical expenditure and the immunity of the private health sector. For the administration of this important body, which is a health services monopoly, you tabled an amendment Friday night to another demonstration of poor legislation. You chose the House last minute to learn what you had leaked to journalists for days, seeking our parliamentary surprise, so that the changes to the EEA's administrative model could pass through with the least possible reactions, without public consultation and without acceptance of society. It is undeniable that after nine years of operation the EEAS needs improvements. You, however, use it to prepare the ground towards the implementation of your pre-election programme for health, and that is why put the right people in the right position so that everything can be quickly done in the time that you will choose and be absent from society. The establishment of the commanding post gives the impression that the next step will not be long enough to take place, as will the fact that you do not talk about the creation of an organisation chart and the safeguarding of jobs of the permanent private law officers who run it indefinitely, while at the same time anticipating four expert advisers of the scientific partner, secretaries and posters, as well as a journalist's post. In addition to the alchemys you are doing regarding representation on the board of the body and the overthrowing of elected democratic executives, we as a Change Movement are vertically opposed to the conversion of the EEAS into a party tool of virtue. In addition, the employees of the EEAS shall be contrary to the case referred to in subparagraph (g) of paragraph 5 by the choice of their representatives in the EEAS Board of Directors. As you legislate it overturns the democratic electoral process that has been carried out by the working party for the election of representatives in the Board. The institution must be run by those who finance it. Today it is financed by 1.3 billion from the state budget and 4.7 billion from the insured. They must have the first reason for managing the EEAS. By noting that the public nature of the EEAS must not be called into question, the Change Movement cannot vote in favour of this amendment. Minister, public health was at the heart of PASOK's reformist social policies with the establishment of the ESS, the highest health care with the seven university hospitals, the organisation of secondary health care with the sixty prefecture hospitals and the numerous primary health care structures placed on the service of all citizens with universal access, without any discrimination. This is the system that with all its pathogens has taken the country out of the deadlock in a pandemic time. The Change Movement has the political tradition and obligation to function as a guardian of those who have been imprisoned for the last forty years in the health sector. The public nature of the ESS for us is unnegotiable, as is equal and universal access to quality health services. In this you will find us against those who are parliamentary acrobatics and moral blackmails and if we face them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u21	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. In the first part of the bill on the Onassis Foundation's contract with the Greek State, as we submitted our opinion to the committee, but also when we discussed the corresponding agreement in 2018 of the Onassis Foundation with the Greek State, we formulated our substantial disagreement, which we expressed in 1992, when it began its operation or when the respective legislative initiative of the then government was discussed on the creation of the "Onasios" Foundation and its operation. So our disagreement concerns the fact, firstly, that both the existing Cardiff Centre and the new infrastructure that is to be made are essentially and practically a modern business unit in the critical area of people's health needs, which is reflected and binding on the original donation contract, and also from the subsequent internal regulations, i.e. the operation of this centre on the basis of the principles of the private economy. Thus, over time, all governments, like today, consider the creation, expansion of an entrepreneurial health unit to be an offer to society as a whole. Indeed, it is a great challenge to be presented by either the current government, as is the case with previous governments, as a major situation what? Two different things, namely a hospital which has the principles of the private economy as its starting point, on the one hand, and the social nature of the "Onauseum" on the other. For the truth, a visit to the website with the services provided and what is called for each patient to pay at the "Onceau" shows exactly this direction of its operation. In line with the character of the hospital, it is also the employment relationships and the pay system established in accordance with the hospital operating principles, i.e. the level of profitability. This is therefore not a donation that is being granted to the State, it will go into full responsibility and function by the State, so that all services can be provided free of charge to all those who need it without conditions and conditions. It is an investment in order to strengthen business action in a very serious health sector. In fact, the people will finance this operation in various ways, either through the state budget resulting from the tax burden imposed on them, either through the increased contributions of the health insurance fund branches or through direct payments for the purchase of services by the "Cardioccan Surgery Association". The second part of the bill relates to various provisions which regulate, regulate, promote and manage a number of measures, but which in no case affect the long-term anti-population policy in the public health sector. These measures are inadequate, since they do not respond to the acute problems of the public health system, especially at the time when the concern and fear of the people's populations are growing everyday, on the one hand, in the case of pandemic taking uncontrolled proportions, on the other hand, seeing them stay without full and effective care and other conditions. There is the experience of the previous period, since, as you know, multiple-month waiting lists have been created for simple medical appointments and surgery. Therapies of cancer patients and chronicly suffering are left behind. They do not answer the articles of the bill at the cry of agony, indignation, anger of health in public hospitals, as well as teachers, teachers, workers of local and regional administration, ministries, university institutions, workers in the private sector, pensioners and youth, who join their voices with the fighting sanitary against the Government's account of armoring the public health system or strengthening the readiness and full functioning of the EHS, but narratives that break the reality itself tragically, shaped by the years and ongoing sub-financing, severing and commercialisation of the public health system and strengthening its business. What's the government doing? Any increase in clinical and IF beds, for example in the public health system, for the needs of the pandemic, are beds, beds resulting from the removal of beds, IF beds along with their personnel intended for other diseases. At the same time as it is required on the basis of the international criteria around three and a half thousand Beds of LITs and MLFs, you have the objective - as you are well aware - of the European average of thousands of two hundred beds, as you well know from the first phase of the pandemic. But even that limit was very behind the needs of pandemic in the first phase. The provision in Article 11, for example, for the establishment of organic sites by setting up organic sites, is not enough in itself, because organic posts are needed to cover up, i.e. the beds of intensive care units. But this is not the case with this regulation. Isn't the same truth happening in all the empty organic hospitals that remain uncovered? Instead of going into massive hirings to public hospitals, to health centers, to simulate all subsidiary staff, you are extending their work hostage for another year, while the system, for normal operating conditions, should be served with more than twenty-five thousand health workers, assistant staff, administrative staff and others. Thus, the current government, like the previous government and the previous ones, continues to extend and extend the regime of overthrowing labour relations, the hostage work and the formation of flexible and deeper-exploited health personnel, without delay implementing the policy of limiting state expenditure, as subsidiary staff are paid by the revenues of public health units. It is a policy within the framework of the strategy of the European Union and the capital, which all parties here accept, New Democracy SYRIZA, a change movement and go by saying and aiming what? The creation of an abundance and a financial area. In addition, you have committed yourself to these, that is to say, the support of the state-owned Quran business groups in order to stimulate their competitiveness and reinvigoration. In fact, even your argument about recruiting auxiliary staff and not permanent staff in hospitals seems like two drops of water, but through different roles today, where we have the New Democracy government and the Civic Opposition of SYRIZA. So one blocks you from the time-consuming procedures of competitions, the other blocks the state that has no money, budgetary objectives, commitments and goes by saying. The conclusion is that what is relevant to social people's needs is cut or referred to the Monday Presence, while what is relevant to business groups is considered to be "ground" and directly effective. It is indeed a challenge for all of you to invoke your so-called interest for doctors and patients when with huge needs for staff in public health establishments the suffering of the drop applies, the status of a certain amount of working time and the rotation between the employable and the unemployed, with the subsistence of hospitals and health centers and patients subject to a long-term date for an examination, to endure the conditions of "war" in hospitals' newspapers and even the challenge for their health and life. It is precisely the results of this policy that are seen, for example, by what we have said to you in the committee, Mr Ministers. We said the example of about three hundred employees, ancillary staff, of the 2019 2K notice, which, according to the provisional results, were found out outside tables of ADP nominated and of course by issuing the final results of the nominated ones, you throw them on the road while they have worked for six years and cover fixed and continuous needs. We asked you and we ask you, and now, will these specific workers continue to work in the health system? The same is the case with workers of notice 7K, also 2019 of ASP, who have been working in the Social Welfare Centres since 2014, most of them since 2018, as auxiliary staff. Thus, according to the notice - 7K, the one I referred to - a large part of those working as assistants in the Welfare Centres are still out of lists, after so many years of work on the one hand and, on the other, because they are not even asked for the documentation. Result? From day to day workers, who are not in the provisional tables, get fired. We are talking - and we stress this - about pro-active structures, where not only are these workers needed, but they need much more to meet the enormous needs of hospitals, homes, hospitals for disabled or abandoned children. We are talking about structures with enormous shortages in staff, which all governments over time are deporting and committing themselves to the expense of thousands of our fellow people. We are saying here and now that all these workers are permanently employed and massively recruited all those necessary staff and those prosperous units. Thirdly, instead of a cheque - and we put it at the beginning of the pandemic - private sector, the clinical authorities with the arrangements that you have put forward will pay an additional EUR 30 million. They can open intensive care units beds without anyone checking them if they comply with the necessary standards and they will have the right to receive patients for hospitalisation in the ICUs only if it is of interest to them. Of course, with this bill, so that the pharmaceuticals are not left with the complaint, you can give them another gift, so much as you have done to them so far, as a government, but also the previous government of SYRIZA. It relates to the provisions of Articles 12 and 15, where you regulate in instalments the repayments of previous years by increasing the limit of the pharmaceutical expenditure of the EEAS. However, the increase in the threshold does not mean an increase in the services provided for the medical care of the people, since these will continue to be determined by the EOPYYS benefit regulation, with the well-known cuts and plaques, and patients have no benefit at all, as happened all the previous time with all the governments, because what patients have found is that they are paying even more than their pockets for medicines and for examinations respectively. And precisely this policy of limiting all governments in turn has led to generalized cuts and plaques in health benefits and increased payments from the populace. The reality is that the government of the year that the people and youth won in the first wave of pandemic, not only did it not exploit it to strengthen the public health system, rather it took advantage of the extraordinary event of the pandemic to take permanent measures, which are part of the policy of further trade and privatisation of the public health system. It is a policy which all governments have implemented over time and which is responsible for the current anticipation of the public health system, namely, a policy which considers the health of the people to be cost and profitable for profitable investments. In fact, at the same time that people counted and measured losses in human lives, entrepreneurs see opportunities in the pandemic for investment and profits. For example, the clinical authorities, to whom I referred earlier, and the insurance companies, who express their optimism for a rapid recovery of their profits and press for the promotion of PPPs, to ensure that the population is insured against pandemics, as they say. What has emerged in the pandemic period, as before and will continue in the next period, is that in capitalism, the system that you all serve, the prevention, early state planning and the organisation of the health system, the provision of the necessary logistical infrastructure, staffing, training, so that it can meet and meet current and exceptional needs, but which are predictable costs and waste. You all know that, since you serve it. That is why you cannot and do not want to satisfy the needs of our people in health, education, in all areas, whether in emergency or in current situations. So this is the real enemy, who needs to target our people, who is in the form of a person, has a name, has interests to defend against the people: the rotten exploitation system, capital, their political servants, their governments and their parties. Faced with the fair demands of health workers, students, teachers, workers, how did you respond and how do you respond? You are enlisting authoritarianism, making use of measures such as the Stranded Ahchioglou Act, the pursuant law to ban demonstrations by the Government of New Democracy, while, of course, you are preparing a new "strike" in the trade union organization and action and continuing. But against whom? To the sanitaries themselves, who were applauding them in the spring, but a few days ago to their fair demands, you responded with chemicals, groopoons and swearings. How did the government respond to schoolchildren and teachers, parents, who claim the right to education and health? Chemical and manhunt. Faced with this policy, we say that one option is for the workers, the people: their concern, their indignation and their anger need to be transformed into a more massive organized struggle, collective claim and action. After all, the grand demonstration, the racing, if you like, the outbreak of thousands of workers and youth, which demanded the condemnation of the fascist, Nazi criminal organization, the Golden Dawn, is proof of the power of the workers to impose their right. It's up to them. Mr President, allow me a quick reference to the ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Lambroulis, you've got a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u24	Yes, Mr President, but let us say two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u25	They're going to blame us for unfair support because of the vice-chairmanship.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u26	No, no. Because of origin from Thessaly, where the Cardits Prefecture was generally affected. The amendment concerns the problems arising from the arrival of the 'January'. With regard to the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development, therefore, there may be a provision that more money will be given, but compensation will be given by means of ELGA procedures and philosophy, which do not guarantee full compensation for infrastructure, production and do not make up for lost income. The change provided for in the amendment enables 100% of the insured person to receive compensation. However, once Article 7 of the ELGA remains in force, it will simply remain an option that will not be carried out in practice. So, to get a farmer 100% of the insured value his field should be very high productivity, for example. So, in Karditsa for someone to get the 153 euros, which is 100% of the insured value, the field should have a yield of over four hundred pounds per acre, that is, a yield that is very large and few farmers can reach. So on the basis of Article 7 of the ELGA Regulation, lower productivity fields, even 100% damage, will not be able to receive 100% of the insured value. Therefore, any claims made by the government do not apply. And what we put in this part is the amendment of Article 7 of the ELGA Regulation. Also - and I am closing with this, Mr President, with regard to this amendment - compensation is not guaranteed, since regions such as Evia and other regions with major disasters, which have suffered the previous period before the 'January', are excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u27	I would like to inform you that Mr Screkas will be here to support this amendment. The rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives will therefore be able to speak for a few minutes when the Minister is here to discuss what you want on the amendment. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the Convention of Donation between the Greek State, the Social Benefit Foundation called “ALEXANDROS S. SA” (ALEXANDER S. ONASSIS PUBLIC BENEFIT FOUDATION)”, based in Vaduz by LIECHTENSTEIN, and the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre (N.I.) is hereby introduced to Parliament.), urgent arrangements to address the risk of the spread of COVID-19 and other provisions.’ On the question of the donation of the Onassis Foundation to Article 1, clearly and welcome, and the citizens feel obliged. However, by accepting State donations from private individuals, the State officially admits that it is unable to guarantee the rights of citizens in the field of health themselves. And he can no longer invoke the economic crisis because he should in fact be able to meet his constitutional obligations towards citizens. In addition, a permanent, transparent and independent donation control mechanism should be established, which in specific and transparent rules will make use of always welcome donations in the best possible way to protect public health. Furthermore, in this case, it should be carefully monitored in relation to the smooth transition of competences from the "Union" Foundation to the new body implementing the exact content of the donation, the goodness of the services provided, who and with what standard will assess the course of implementation, who will judge the deficit to an extent and cost in the event of the failure! - failure to comply with the contract by the implementing body, as well as what alternative plan if the organisation fails to implement the project. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the pandemic of COVID -19, in addition to the fact that it has changed our daily habits, has also shown pathogens in our public life and, indeed, in the public health sector, of a primary importance of high quality, which every Western welfare state must provide free of charge to its taxpayers and, indeed, to the best possible conditions and conditions. The term 'better' includes both the quality of the services provided, but also democracy and transparency, which, as basic principles, should govern the exercise of public life. Unfortunately, the practice of the governments of our country has shown us that the services provided are clearly not the best, referring to both concepts of the term, as I have just said. And in this legislation, unfortunately, the Government provides much material for reflection, because it appears to follow the old-party practices of temporary solutions, which either give suitable ground to photographic direct assignments and cooperation by way of derogation from the existing legislation, as demonstrated in Articles 2, 17 and 24, or settle, in accordance with Article 3, its staff in the public sector. All of this is done with the obvious aim of serving self-interest, i.e. recruitment on a purely party basis. In addition, under the cloak of exceptional and urgent circumstances, the government has made some and only skin regulations in the multitude of public health, but it needs deep and decisive areas, which the government has promised in advance, with particular emphasis, but to which it refuses to go ahead. It is true that health benefits have been constantly degrading to the detriment of the taxpayer Greek citizen since 2009, resulting in the National Health System for many years now operating by minimal means, which in no way match the quality that each favoured Member State - Member State of the European Union should provide. The fact that the National Health System still operates, even with a hypotypically function, is due to the valuable - Greek characteristic - of its fully-trained health personnel, who are struggling under so bad conditions to meet the needs of Greek citizens. The second wave of pandemic is here. We already see the National Health System pressurized. IDUs are already being pushed dangerously to a large extent. In contrast to new and permanent recruitments, the Government has made many secondments from hospitals to other hospitals, on the pretext of pandemic, with many hospitals staying without adequate medical staff. It also extends coronary contracts, as shown in Articles 4, 19 and 20. On the contrary, the National Health System needs to be shielded, better organisation and quality of services, in order to meet both new needs and also to serve as well as the standing needs of its operation. Under no circumstances should the ESS be transformed into a coronary treatment system alone, while at the same time degrading the functioning of normal medical actions, i.e. surgery, units, external medical services. Despite the immediate need to have a strong national health system, while at the same time impeccable functioning of primary health facilities, health centres, which could and should have been discharged by hospitals, in order to avoid unnecessary suffering and risk due to the creation of a crowding of citizens, the tactics of chronic underfunding, severing and commercialisation of the public health system continue. There are health centres, mainly in remote areas, without even taking samples, in the absence of doctors and staff. There should therefore be EGE workshops and not just once, but systematically, which will carry out massive preventive tests in remote areas. These are malfunctions which the government, despite its announcements, still underestimates and does not understand the seriousness of the situation and does not make immediate solutions to permanent and adequate staffing of the ERC with worthy personnel. And thank God, our homeland has a lot. This would, on the one hand, adequately send the polypath and fail to operate a health system, but also significantly reduce the leakage of worthy people to other countries which do not exist there. Why there and not in our homeland, in their homeland? It is also characteristic that Mrs Kalandaridou, a representative of the National Medical Helper Reproduction Authority, has been labelled as important and sensitive as a service, which said the service was working for a period of just one secretary. The Government must listen to the daily calls of hospitals, central and regional, and take measures. The opportunity given to the Greek Government over the last six months to make substantial support for the ESS with the recruitment of medical and other staff, with the creation of new beds for the CIVID -19 beds, with the creation of infrastructure for free mass tests, the supply of public hospitals with the necessary protective materials and appropriate equipment, has not been exploited, with the result that the public health structures, the wall against pandemic, remain vulnerable and firmly faced with collapse. As a Greek Solution we require free care and hospitality for all Greek citizens, regardless of whether they belong to an insurance fund or not. It is not acceptable to examine immigrants without AMKA in public hospitals, to create dangerous for dispersal cosmics and to stay out of hospitals Greek citizens. At this point I must note that foreigners who have invaded our country, or otherwise, are supported with all kinds of allowances and benefits, but they are not treated accordingly by Greek taxpayers. In order to avoid an exponential increase in cases, we should follow the three basic principles of the ECDC, the European Infection Control Centre. Firstly, with easy, quick and free access, both to medical assessment and diagnostic tests, in order to obtain as soon as possible a detection of cases. Secondly, adequate staffing of the Health System. And thirdly, targeting the prevention of spread in closed structures, in potential overtransmissions, to health workers. Unfortunately, however, more tests should be carried out at prevention and their results published more quickly. As the World Trade Organisation's main representative developed in parliamentary control on 13 October, the fifteen thousand tests on the day it is heard only take place over the weekend, as the workshops are closed. This impacts the long delay in issuing the results. In order to improve this situation there should be more molecular analysers, more reagents. In addition, during the meeting with the institutions, a number of complaints were raised from the clinical associations that do not even meet the minimum building standards to limit the risk of dispersal. Really, did the required check take place? In addition, the Government continues not to compensate insured persons for the tests carried out in private laboratories which amount to one to three of the daily cognitive tests. These are borne by the citizen of his own resources, because they are neither prescribed nor compensated. As a public health examination, it is unacceptable to charge the citizens' pockets, given the financial assistance of billions of euros by the ESM precisely for this purpose. So let us come to the family place with young children, with unemployed or employed parents, with loan obligations, whether they are served or not, which reflects many current Greek families. What is their position when one of the family members shows any symptom even seemingly unsuspecting? Have you considered the unfavourable costs of even four tests which will be imposed on members of a four-member family? And if they are all supposed to find them negative, what is their position when the next week is suddenly to be re-examined, when the misfortune has another suspected case in the family? This is why there is an absolute need, as well as a prescribing and compensation by the EEAS for the diagnostic examination of COVID -19. On the other hand, the unsubstantiated invoicing of diagnostic tests by private individuals, with prices as much as they want, a measure which the government has applied because of a lack of planning, directly or indirectly burdens the pocket of the average citizen. In particular, the approval of health centres in private laboratories for carrying out diagnostic tests, as defined in Article 10, is the definition of the opacity of bias and the photographic process of ‘days’ service. Of course, many of the articles discussed, such as Article 2, ‘Confidentiality Arrangements’, Article 17, ‘EVO Staff Questions’, Article 24, ‘Procedure for the selection of governor and Deputy Hospital Commander’, strengthen the lack of transparency and the promotion of party recruitment criteria. In particular, Article 2 of this legislation provides that the National Transplant Organisation may cooperate with doctors and staff of different specialities, by way of derogation from the legislation in force, namely Articles 6 of Law 2527/1997, as well as in paragraph 20 of the ninth article of Law 4057/2012, following a fully reasoned report by the Agency and a decision of the Minister of Health. Really? What is the reason and the need to derogate the existing legislation and, indeed, so celebratingly? Corresponding to Article 2, Article 8, Article 8 ‘Composition of daily hospitals, Article 9 ‘Number of surgical standing units of daily hospitals’ and Article 10, ‘Legislation of health centres’, attempts unjustified openness to privatise the National Health System. On the contrary, the government could serve with a decent and permanent staff, following transparent and meritous procedures for the benefit of citizens, both primary and secondary health care. It does not, however, systematically refuse to do so, unjustly burdening the citizens. In addition, both in Article 2 and in Article 3 and in Article 12, ‘Confidentiality Regulations of Medicinal Products Marketing Authorisation Holders to the EEAS for 2019’, we must point out the unjustified, as far as the circumstances are concerned, over-concentration of the person of the Minister of Health, which refers to a decision by a man to avoid control of his own benefit. Article 3 also provides for the placement of employees of the under liquidated AEMY in personal positions. It should be noted that these persons were recruited to AEMY and an answer should be given as to whether they can be absorbed by the State, as well as whether the report by the State General Accountant on the costs of their employment in the State and the relevant annual burden on the State budget has been taken into account. Finally, Article 26 provides for the allocation of EUR 1.5 billion to the media. It is appropriate to highlight the importance of the proper and well-informed information of citizens from the media, on the condition that this is absolutely objective, that it provides all the necessary information and does not aim at any kind of manipulation of citizens in the interests of the government. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion of this bill, under the pretext of urgent arrangements to deal with COVID -19, it introduces and promotes photographic arrangements, provisions for irregular appointments and opaque recruitment to the public by the 'eye', as well as provisions for the introduction of the system of direct awards by way of derogation from the existing public procurement provisions and for the legalisation of certain expenditure carried out in the last six months without control of their legality. We as a Greek Solution have raised the bad texts, irregularities and illegality, and we hope you will listen to us. The next few months are very difficult for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u29	It closes the list of special speakers with Mrs Maria Apatzides from Mera25. As we have said, six colleagues will follow and then the Minister. However, I would ask Mr Paulakis, because of sudden, urgent work, to be able, after the first six colleagues and the Minister, to speak. I guess you won't mind. I can't do it alone. Only if you approve me. As far as I can see, there's no objection. Here, Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a state dependent on private donations for the performance of its constitutional duties is a weak state. A government that turns to private donors to fulfil its constitutional obligations is a weak government. This reality, this truth cannot be hidden behind the welcome works of the donation contract contained in this draft law. Obviously, every donation to the state, always under specific conditions and conditions, is clearly welcome, as is welcome, and to meet the needs that the donation in question makes possible. This position is consistent with the fact that we do not vote against in such cases, but in positive ones. Public health needs funding, not donations. We should be concerned about the fact that the Greek State admits with the acceptance of these donations, its inability to meet needs which are a constitutional obligation and a mission. The fact that we owe the generosity of private donors cannot be counted as a success of the state and government. On the contrary, it must be understood as a confession of failing to fulfil constitutional obligations. However, under the current Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the weakening of the state's prosperous and social character after ten years of monumental destruction is not seen. This is clearly where the ideological preference of the New Democracy appears, its neoliberal obsession, according to which it is not the state's job to take care of and care for the health of citizens. The treatment of the coronary pandemic is used by the government as an excuse for further orientation in the private sector. In this context, the role of the business demon, be it the kindness and generosity of the private donor, is promoted and highlighted. However, the health of the people is not a matter of private donations. It's a matter of constitutional obligation. In the State's inability to support its needs and is obliged to cover after a decade of memorial mutilation, the ideological obsessions and priorities of the Government of New Democracy are added. It can only be wondered how many IF beds correspond to the EUR 20,000 000 granted to the media, millions which have shaped the content of the information that the public receives every day in the direction that the government wants. We see that a great deal of euros, which will bring more austerity and recession, exist for armaments dealers, and for public health no. And when the government is forced by developments to strengthen public health, by indirectly recognising the role and importance of the health system, it follows the doctrine'very little, very late', with limited and delayed aid always being presented as a brave solution. These examples show us that in the end this is a matter of priorities and of their hierarchy. So Greek democracy clearly has to accept every donation with gratitude and satisfaction. At the same time, however, it should be pointed out that it is criminal negligence not to have already taken care of the needs of which it is a constitutional obligation. I would point out again that we are not putting on the table a sample of acceptance or non-acceptance of a donation, since we are clearly accepting it. That is why we are not voting negatively. But we are putting the question of how a state is formed and weakened at the table, which ends up relying increasingly on the possibility of donations and depends on private donors. Because today we have a donation in front of us, and we are discussing the adoption of its amendment. But what will a state do in the future, and what will a state that is addicted to donation aid and donor dependency, if it does not identify them? Ladies and gentlemen, what is the lesson from trying to deal with the pandemic? The lesson is that we need a strong and better organised public health system, with more resources and quality services to meet the new needs. The outcome of the government's selection for gradual transformation of the ESS and the adaptation of public health to an almost exclusive coronary system, with the consequent downgrading of surgery, cardiac units, external medical services, is to increase morbidity from other causes and to exalt the citizen for almost any other medical problem in the private sector. The Prime Minister was committed to a new National Health System by his television proclamations and to ensuring a sufficient number of beds and intensive care units. However, neither this new ESS nor the adequacy of the provisions, nor the needs that arise and will arise in the next few years from the development of the coronary pandemic, have we seen, at the same time as the concern about the possibility of the health crisis evolving much worse than the present situation in the next few months. The second wave of the pandemic is under way. A few days ago, last Friday, we had a negative record: we got over five hundred new cases. In the next few months, the seasonal flu and the coronary will coincide and things will make it difficult for health, economic and labour. The government measures and forecasts contained in the bill are efficaciously inadequate. In many hospitals there are no molecular analysts and there is a great delay in issuing the test results, and in many other health centres there is no possibility of taking samples. More tests should be carried out and results issued immediately, as well as prescribing and compensation for the examination of the coronary by the EEAS. The extension of staff contracts of different specialties included in the draft law, in particular in Article 4 and Article 20, is an exclusively temporary solution. In any case, even a day of extension is positive for workers who lose their jobs. However, temporary staff through these temporary solutions are under the permanent hostage of the Government. The Government is trying to resist at all costs the possibility of permanent recruitment of real needs and permanent solutions. It resists in the context of its ideological preferences, but also a monumental addiction in relation to the nature of the public sector. We hope that he will rethink soon. The needs of permanent staff will not be eliminated. Workers, like their colleagues who have been working as auxiliary for over five years, have been meeting standing and constant needs. They should be permanentized. We have repeatedly talked about the government's hypocritical attitude to the people who are fighting the front line. When health workers complain about the major problems and shortcomings they face, highlighting the shortcomings of government policy in the field of public health, they are treated with violence, repression and invoking public order. The initial applause from the balconies and televisions was followed by the crackdown and the wood on the streets by the MATs. The SYRIZA government delivered less than six hundred IFs. The New Democracy Government operates a little more than six hundred general meths and about two hundred meths of COVID -19. The delayed effort to increase intensive care units on the part of the government is in the wrong way, by changing the use of general ICUs in coronary ICUs and by moving doctors and nurses who do not have the appropriate expertise to operate these new ICUs. At the same time, the movement of nurses and doctors from large hospitals to reference hospitals disturbs the function and makes the on-call insecure. When the completeness of the qualified IF beds for the treatment of the disease reaches 75% and the government says that in Attica we have 25% to 30% of empty IF beds, the impression is that the empty beds are enough. In fact, their number does not exceed thirty - five with forty beds and when a hundred fifty or two hundred incidents are hospitalised, the IMIs can be imposed at any time, not enough. It should be pointed out that in the previous figures we do not take into account the fact that almost every year - that is, without pandemic - we have about fifty incidents in waiting lists to find a general bed of METH. This is a small example of the results of the ideological obsessions of the New Democracy Government and of the well-known doctrine "very late". Amid the global pandemic and the great health crisis facing the country, public health expenditure is still around 5% of GDP. The average in the countries of the European Union is 7.5% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, the political ethos and the worthy code of Mera25, as well as the reasons and concerns mentioned above, do not allow us to vote in favour. As MERA25, we are voting'representations' in the first place. However, I would like to conclude by pointing out: we as a PART25 believe that donations on condition are welcome and welcome. However, it is not meant to replace the State's fundamental constitutional obligations. The refuge in donations and private charity in exceptional or unconditional circumstances is not a solution. Public health needs support and funding, not charity. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The objective should be a strong and better organised public health system with more resources and quality services in order to meet new needs, as well as to ensure a good level of public health and improve the quality of life of the citizen. At the same time, we condemn the gradual and partial transformation of the public health system into an almost exclusive system for combating a disease, so that citizens suffering from other diseases are gradually facing the dilemma of 'private sector or death'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. And to begin, as the Rules of Procedure stipulate, with the list of colleagues and with Mr Athanasio Ljupi from New Democracy. And we will go up to seven, as has been agreed, that is to say, Mr Polakis and then the Minister will take the floor and will begin, as I have heard, by the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill prepares the ESS not only to deal with pandemic, but overall to move to a more effective health services mechanism. In the first part of the bill, the contract between the Greek State, the Social Benefit Foundation "Alexandros Onassis" and the "Oonessios Cardiff Surgery Centre" is amended. This is a great donation, as we all know, of EUR 70 million now. The overall project is to be completed by June 2024. The donation will be directed, among other things, to the establishment and equipment of the “National Transmissible Center”. The immediate necessity is to modernise the transplant system in Greece. The main problems of the National Transplant Organisation are shortcomings in adequate staff. Currently, the EOM is strengthened, since doctors and specialists are allowed to provide services with a service document. Greece is consistently classified in the last European Union positions in the number of transplants with only 4.8 donors per million population. The European average is about four times greater. The study of good practices carried out by countries with successful transplant systems, such as Spain and Croatia, guide us to three levels of change for our country. At the first level, it is necessary to inform citizens widely of any misconceptions, prejudices and phobias, starting from school and then to all social groups with information programmes via the Internet and the media. On the second level, because the entire transplant system is being implemented and must be implemented in intensive care units, there is a need to strengthen the number of ICUs and personnel. At the moment, the government has focused its efforts on increasing the IF and MFF beds and in recruitment additional staff, which helps increase transplants. The third is the acquisition of more local transplant coordinators, doctors and nurses specialising in the search for potential donors and in informing their families in the most appropriate way. In this field it is valuable to contribute once again to the Onassis Foundation, which is committed to funding for a year seven transplant coordinators in the seven health regions of the country. The remaining provisions of today's bill resolve current important issues of public health, such as compensation of EUR 2 000 for family doctors until the end of their term of office. It is predicted that from the thousands of new nursing posts in the ICU, the percentage will be of physiotherapists. All costs incurred by health centres for the examination of coronary samples shall be covered. The possibility for pharmaceutical companies to regulate their debt in thirty-six instalments from the clawback of medicinal products for 2019 is specified. Another public health support decision increases the limit of the total pharmaceutical expenditure of the EEAS for 2020 at EUR 2,088.000.000. There is a way out of an issue that concerns many insured persons in relation to the payment of treatments of special treatment, reason therapy, treatment, psychotherapy and the purchase of visual goods. Until the EEAS has signed contracts with contracted professionals, expenditure on these treatments may be directly allocated to the insured. EGE staff issues are regulated, such as overtime compensation that we all know is a fact fully justified by their workload. As a result of exceptional health conditions, supplementary staff contracts of the medical and nursing hospitals are extended until 31-10-2021. Very important is the provision that allows the doctor responsible to issue a quarterly recipe with a monthly execution for opioids, which helps our severely suffering fellow humans to deal with pain. Due to the measures against the coronary until 31/12-2020, it may be moved for one year with the possibility of an extension for three months of medical, nursing and other personnel from the local health units to health centres or other healthcare bodies. Article 4 of the amendment adds additional movable units for rapid test. It is supplemented by the very important donation of the Greek Parliament with the fifty ITH beds at the "Salvation" Hospital with an additional donation of 800,000 euros for the construction of a hiking bridge that will connect the surgery of the hospital to the new ITH area. Today's bill covers the current particularly high needs of public health. The Ministry of Health and, more generally, the Government is determined to provide a high level of health services to citizens. Finally, Amendment No 519/87 by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food regulates the question of the payment of compensation from ELGA to those affected by 'January' last September in Ionian Islands, Carditsa, Farsala, Almyro, New Anchialo. It is for the first time defined as compensation per parcel for the first time at 100% of the insured value and also exempted for the first time from the payment of the valuation fees for the farmers insured in the ELGA. The possibility of an immediate advance in respect of compensation for agricultural crops and livestock is given. ELGA, 35 for this year for the first time since the law was passed, and retrospectively for 2018 and 2019. Redefinition is the subject of damages to the entire business’s assets rather than to part of them, currently in force, with compensation paid to industrial, crafts units, shops, rural enterprises and other non-profit-making enterprises due to flood damage and natural disasters. Facilitation and financial incentives are provided for the rapid recording of damages by theory to all involved, evaluators, geotechnics, engineers, employees, correspondents of ELGA, but also for overtime and Saturdays, facilitating the establishment and flexibility of committees responsible for the recording of damages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Because Mr. Boredo told us that he's in trouble in traffic, I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Polakis on the side of SYRIZA and Mr. Polakis' position will take when he comes, because he's on the road, Mr. Bored. Mr. Paulakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, I would like to begin my speech not with the bill, but to say that today the Greek society awaits the punishment of the murderers of the Nazi gang of Gold Dawn. In fact, after yesterday's unreasonable speech by the prosecutor, who recognized them as the white criminal record and the prestigious life, today the President of the court, Mrs Lepeniotis, with her speech a little while ago, I think, honoured the judiciary and put things in place. Paul Physsa, Lukeman, Egyptian fishermen, PAME trade unionists, all students, immigrants, refugees, who terrorized, hit, murdered the Golden Dawn, today awaiting the ax of justice to even feel that vindication. I'm coming to the bill. What should I start with, Ministers? We started off with a contract ratification and you've brought some things we need to talk about three hours. I'll say two things about the title of the bill. Look, the amendment you make to the contract for the transplant, which we implemented in cooperation with the Onassis Foundation, goes until 2024. Why? The first contract was to be completed by 2021-2022. Why should 2024 be completed? I think the Onassis Foundation has the financial capacity. There has been a huge advance in order to implement this convention. Of course I'll tell you this about the story to be recorded. The proposal for a transplant from the Onassis Foundation was much older than our own days. But why didn't they work out? Because the "Carticular Surgery Center" received it with 115 million euros debts and a deficit budget. And we handed over a "Carticular Surgery Association" with a clear position on his fund, in addition to what he had to make in 2019, 25 million euros. In fact, we handed over 35 million, just 10 million were negotiated for a bank discount. We received EUR 115 million of debts and delivered it with a EUR 25 million cash surplus. This is why the Onassis Foundation granted the donation. Because these must be recorded in history. Of course we didn't just do that. We did the other thing, which Stournaras and the Great canceled, and I don't see you moving at all. We had prepared and signed a contract with "National" for the purchase of "Dynnan" with 100m euros, 10 that Onassis and 90-year-old Greek State would have put on the Greek State, which had been guaranteed for 15 years, to bring the "Dynnan" together with "Onceion" to a single public group, a public pillar of nursing care with "National Cardio Surgery", the transplant, which is built as well as the "Dynnan" to offer his services to the ESS. Of course, Mr Stournaras was delayed in cooperation with Mr Great Piraeus and this political move which we had announced at the beginning of May was not implemented. And now, right now, Dynn entered 30m euros in and the Great gives Piladakis 150 million and they have given 900 million to four shipowners from loans they had taken. And I can't, I'll say it before I say the rest. Mr. Stournaras, when I took my word because I wasn't getting any hatreds and I didn't work as a doctor, a loan of 100,000 euros, he held an extraordinary meeting at the Bank of Greece to see the lawfulness and, of course, he found it legal, but the fuss was made at the time. Now that he's at the forefront of giving 900m euros to Piraeus Bank, where is Mr. Stournaras, living, breathing, doing a meeting? Will he ask for the money back? Or will he do the duck, like he usually does on something like that? Secondly, it is unacceptable to regulate the EEA, and it is unacceptable in the way you brought it - the Minutes were closed and you are bringing the regulation on the EEA - and on the substance of the matter. When? Since you were aiming to bring this in and abolish the position of Vice-President, etc. because you spent a while ago the autonomous vice-president's office that we trembled from here and on with the posters, etc.Huh? Couldn't the lady you've put a vice president there for two months on the basis of the new arrangement you want to make? You want to throw Plajannaco away, which we placed there. It's not our political space. It did, however, well to do what we wanted to do to upgrade the organization, by continuing Bercimi's work. Because we handed you an EEA that we took and owed 2 billion 150 million and delivered you 150 million euros only a year. And I want to see how we are now and how we reduce the revenues from the FBI. I have even learned what it sparked and your reaction to bring this amendment. The president of the EEA - excellence is that! - the government body with the largest budget -6 billion euros a year managed by the EEA - must have just a degree in national or foreign. Is that the excellence? Because the two of us that we put in had proved their excellence, both of us. I want to see who you're gonna put now and the choice you make. You do what you are doing with the final state from the beginning of the year, that the Minister - I will need two minutes - the temporary state and then a later selection procedure. In a body with EUR 6 billion we just want a degree to have! Second, you're retiring. Where did you see that again? This is serious and I have to testify. The board of directors of the Athens Bar Association has decided and considers the amendment that you are practically making and abolishing the legal section of the EEAY and incorporating it - it says - under the Legal Council of the State, that is, the supervisor is also supervised. How's that thing? I would like to make this statement: you have been submitted by the lawyers' association of law-making improvement on this matter. You need to change that, you can't do that, you can't put a lead even non-lawyer. In a legal department made up of lawyers, they will be more relevant than me in this matter, but I think it is overwhelming that decision of the Athens Bar Association. But it's all your logic. I put the following document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You were talking about us, about controlling the joints of power. And you haven't left a drillhole that doesn't control it and changed the legislative framework. Can I talk about the Medically Helped Reproduction Authority that you are persecuting Sofia Kalandaridou, an excellent scientist with a huge amount of work, to put someone who can now also be a retired? I have no racism with retired people, but I have a great belief and love that there are new generations and new scientists to give space to play and prove their value. On the issue of ancillary staff, I would like to say a word, that the legislative system which provides for the retroactive effect of the provision should come, because some already resign from the first implementation of the electronic platform that we have done and were appointed from the end of September 2018 until March 2019. You will be giving an extension with the amendment until 31 October, but there are just some where their contracts expire at the present time and the retroactive effect of the provision must be provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u35	From September 30th.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u36	Since September 30th, good. I'll finish with two words. You've badly changed - because I'm saying things with their name - the story with the rebate of the Client Care Centers, the CIA. I saw that you kept exactly all the decision I made in 2017 in relation to the discount rate of the EOPYY providers and all you change is at the Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation Centers, Client. Why do you change it there? You keep all the other thing we've got and you change this. I'm telling you, and I'm going to say it by name, I have no problem with anyone. Those who submitted more than 300 thousand euros a month we had rebate, a compulsory discount rate - we all know what is going on -20%. You do that 10%. Is that a gift or isn't that to certain businessmen? She's got a name, Davelis, and she's been producing masks lately. What do we do now? That's right! It loses 3 million EOPY and I learned that this decision went five - five to the EOPY Board and did not vote for it by the representatives of the bodies and went by double vote of the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u37	Finish it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you for the tolerance, Mr President, but there is too much. You cannot read it at the last minute. Article 10 must be withdrawn. If you do not withdraw it, say honor, say that what you say is terriblely challenging, that with only documentary invoice I will pay the COVID -19 tests made in the summer by health centers right and left. Here I see contracts from Thessaloniki's Hippocrates - Mrs Auger will say - one hospital pays 65, the other pays 50, the other pays 45. We told you: Put a price and pay it with 25 euros. So, 25 euros! When the CSR gets the reagent of EUR 12, the 25 euros are fine to win and finance and they are happy, not 80, 100, 60, 75. And, of course, we are coming back to the proposal to prescribe this price of compensation to see how they are going to run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u39	Please, Mr. George Francis, MP of the Change Movement to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the news is particularly serious when it comes to the spread of the coronary, as a record of new infections in Greece and Europe every day. Developments show that the health system, workers and structures will be subject to great pressure. In this context, and before entering the bill, I would like to stress that it is important to accept the amendments tabled by the Change Movement. It is time, in practice, to recognise the huge supply and work of health workers, the workers in the municipalities, the uniforms, all people who are struggling on a daily basis and who are fighting the battle against the coronary pandemic. It is time for the heavy and unhealthy regulation to apply to all these workers and to eliminate inequality and the creation of two-speed workers. For example, nurses working in private-law legal persons cannot take heavy and unhealthy care and should not be taken by nurses who are subject to public insurance. At the same time, granting a monthly emergency allowance for as long as the situation with the pandemic lasts is the least we can do for people who protect public health by risking their own and their families. The pandemic has created greater needs in number of newspapers and overtime work. We have proposed the self-taxation of the revenues from medical staff's on-calls for 2020 or further, as the exceptional situation of the pandemic continues. Coming to the bill, we are positive about the donation of the Foundation "Alexandros Onassis", as in every initiative that benefits our country and society. Of course, you have found, Minister, an opportunity to put together various provisions in a bill concerning a donation. You law the costs of health centres and hospitals for testing in private laboratories and other bodies accepting a priori at any price they charge. In many hospitals, Minister, the choice of the diagnostic center has been made by the commander. You have done no consideration, you have imposed no control on the market. You have announced the inclusion in the COVID test procedure - 19 per cent of sixty health centres, but this has not yet been completed, resulting in the heavy financial burden on the citizens. And think about what costs it costs for parents, who will need to perform tests on their children who go to school many times. You recommend doctors’ positions for staffing ICUs, which are known to require specialisation. Staff movements help to meet temporary needs, but adequate recruitment of qualified personnel is the ones that solve the problem. Similarly, the continuing extensions of the subsidiary should finally stop and simulate these experienced doctors, who, although for years, have been meeting the constant needs of the health care system remain a hostage status. In Article 16, you stipulate that, unlike all other special treatment therapies, physicotherapeutic treatments will only be compensated to the new beneficiaries when they are made by physicotherapists associated with the EEA. This is a distinction not only between treatment types for special treatment professionals but also between old and new beneficiaries. Moreover, you are putting patients with motor problems and their caregivers, particularly in the region where specialists are fewer and therefore extremely difficult to find. At the same time, remove them the option to choose a natural therapist. So drive patients to either non-participated individuals at unbearable costs or incomplete treatment. As regards provisions on medically assisted reproduction, as a gynecologist I am saying it is in a positive direction, although I disagree with the possibility of becoming chairman of the supervisory board of the National Medical Helper Reproduction Authority, even a retired professor, which is more likely to demonstrate some kind of service on your part and of course offend the active doctors in reproduction. I would also suggest that the outgoing president be a member of the new board of directors in order to ensure the continuity and use of the work of the previous management. Minister, it is true that modern medical and social developments and the demographic problem dictate the update of the entire legislative framework governing medically assisted reproduction. I believe that the time should be extended for the temporal maintenance of genetic material, especially in certain cases not covered by the relevant article, such as those of women who have been afflicted at an early age by various diseases, such as leukaemia, but who have been treated in a long time and the time limits laid down in the bill do not cover them. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the aim of the Ministry of Health and the Government should be the best possible use of the recovery fund funds for primary and secondary care. However, direct health care is also required. Otherwise all health provisions will be incomplete and all safety arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Diamanto Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u42	Our rapporteur, George Lambroulis, has been put in total for the bill and the amendments. However, we would like to focus more on the Agriculture Ministry's amendment, although it is not their representative. The Minister will help and the Deputy Minister for Health and will carry it over. The fact is that on 28 September, the bill to deal with the catastrophic consequences of the 'Janus' cyclone, was passed on to farmers, although the disasters were too great. Of course, they would be less if there were not the necessary anti-corruption and anti-corrosion projects to protect human life and popular property. Is this an amendment sufficient for the size of the disaster? No, it's not. And if you want us to submit the requests from the farm to see what they are, and at the same time ask the following questions: Firstly, it compensates the whole of the disaster? Although more money will be provided in relation to the current regulation for just one year, the compensation follows the unfair principles of the ELGA regulation, and therefore does not guarantee full compensation for infrastructure, production and, above all, does not make up for lost income at 100%, as the Government says. This is because the insured value falls short of the actual value of the production that was destroyed, especially this year, which was quantitatively and qualitatively a good year, particularly for Daddy, and is concerned with most of the flooded acres. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] In fact, the "Jan" hit a time when the baby was collected and the expected area performance, in many cases, exceeded four hundred pounds per acre. And yet, ELGA only insures three hundred and forty pounds maximum. In other words, the government may claim that it pays 100%, but that is just propaganda and does not actually apply. Only in one case will there be 100% of the insured value: if the yield on the agricultural land is very high productivity and it reaches and exceeds four hundred and fifty kilos per acre, i.e. few cases. It's the exception. These compensations also concern only the regions affected by the Mediterranean cyclone 'January'. In recent months, however, we have had very great disasters - even victims - in Evia, in Halkidiki and in very large fire - arson in thousands of acres in Laconia, declared in an emergency and still nothing has happened. Other areas could, of course, also be included. Secondly, will the farmers who have been destroyed be immediately and quickly paid the dues or even a generous advance on the loss of income, in order to stand on their feet, given that during the period of destruction of their crop, especially in Daddy, it was a harvest period and they would receive money for the needs of the rural family? Promises were said that by the middle of October they would get a brave deposit. Yet, in fact, this shows that it is not true. It was only for the time when the lights of news were on the great catastrophes. Now, what about the deposit? It is only the will that the administration of ELGA decides to do so by the end of January. And how will these people live by then? We propose an advance payment for all areas by 15 November at the latest and not less than 70% of the damage. Thirdly, is there sufficient staff in ELGA for the estimated work? Of course not. Although some five hundred geopolitics are needed, today are only two hundred eighty - seven and the veterinarians twenty - eight. Each year, an average of sixty seasonals are recruited. Furthermore, ELGA is not the acceptance body for mobility and the result is experienced to leave under pressure of intensive work. Only in 2020 have forty geopollutants left with mobility or pensionable forty-four, experienced, or 18%. Therefore, especially at this time, geopsies and veterinarians are needed and not movements from one region to another, i.e. holes are being opened to mislead others instead of hiring permanent staff. That is why we are voting against the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development and certainly has nothing to do with infrastructure. By the way, I should like to say to ELGA that this is a paradox: experienced geopolitics have been fired, since on 29 September the last of a series of judicial decisions which have led to the dismissal of 12 ELGA geopolitics who have been working in the body for years. These officials remained in office on the basis of the judgments of the Courts at first instance. Unfortunately, the ELGA administrations have appealed against them. However, this is a multi-level, qualified staff, with a multi-annual pre-response to an agency, with a constantly growing volume of work. It is the least provocative, when every year they are recorded - due to a lack of staff - major delays in the assessment of damages and compensation for farmers, the administration of the ELGA to proceed to procedures for the dismissal of workers by judicial means and especially now. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled an amendment not to dismiss these geopoles, but rather to become an indefinite one. We ask colleagues to support it. It will benefit both farmers and the functioning of ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The speaker has the floor from the Greek Solution, Sophia Asmakopoulou, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly impressed - of course with the negative time of the word - by the fact that you are facing the critical and diverse health sector with the logic of the cheap solution of derogations, of extensions continuously. What's the result? Instead of being covered, practically the shortcomings are folded. Of course, this logic has other implications. This is very clear both from the second article of the second part and by way of derogation from the importation of private medical practitioners in the transplants sector and from the third article that, by way of derogation - how else - and without specifying the specialities of the latter, you are transferring staff to hospitals without further clarification. You continue the same motto as the next article and the extension of the staff contracts of various specialties. With regard to the organisational provisions for dealing with drugs and the objectives of the OECD, we would like you to tell us what the work done is and how it is being done. With regard to daily care units and the composition of such personnel, it is laid down, inter alia, that the work relationships and cooperation framework of scientific workers with the external doctors and partners are laid down by agreement between the Parties. Is that how it's going to happen now? Full freedom everywhere and without other formalities? It is equally problematic that the tenth article - of course by way of derogation - does not spoil the recipe - with the legalisation of all health centres' costs by examining the biological material related to suspected coronary cases. The thirteenth article moves in a completely unfair context. It is necessary to tighten penalties for infringements. Lowering the limit is like taking a step further to rewarding the illegal doctors. In the seventeenth article, we read in paragraph 3, inter alia, that the EGE may hire up to four months medical care and other auxiliary staff by way of derogation from the texts. What a prototype! And the even more challenging is the fact that, in any additional challenge, a single criterion will be the increasing order of the application. So, who's there to catch up with? Do you consider such arrangements to be serious? Because it's just not like that. Equally incomprehensible is the provision of the 20th article by extending contracts until 31 October 2021. You seem to have a divination knowledge to know from now, a year ago, that a year later the pandemic will exist. The health space has been looted unconsciously. Despite the heroic efforts of medical and nursing staff in hospitals, the problems are many and thorny. We cannot try them any more by bringing them to their limits and unfortunately too often by going beyond them. We in the Greek Solution stress that an organized state must be able to provide social protection to all its members, to all Greeks and to all Greeks, to ensure health care not by fragmentation, spasm, with a handfulness and haste, but in essence also with a sense of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. Mr. Bored by SYRIZA has the floor now. The first group of colleagues will then be completed with Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou and the Minister, Mr Kikilias, will be given the floor. Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President, and the facilitation. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has long entered a divided zone. It has turned on the alarm signal, not only in the pandemic, but also in the economy and national issues. Let me say that this situation cannot be tackled with propaganda. It cannot be imagined that in the face of such major challenges it can raise a propagandaist Iron Curtain and move on the basis of it. One example: Yesterday afternoon - if I am not wrong - the decision was made to enter the stadium on specific conditions, protocols, etc. 10% of the fans. It was a joint government decision, infectious, special advisers, etc. The opposite decision is then taken this morning - it says - by the Prime Minister. So yesterday afternoon, gentlemen, the Prime Minister hadn't heard anything about it and woke up today after the breakfast and saw a glimpse that there is a danger here and intervened to save the fans? Are you serious about this? So much do you underestimate the intelligence of the Greek people? This is how you plan to go to the end? Look, ICUs were made with a donation of the House and good. Parliament's donations in critical circumstances had been made by the previous parliament only that at that time there was no room for praise, but only for toxicity, only for the danger, only for that. And say something? Yesterday, Prime Minister Mitsotakis opened, if I am not mistaken, the start of the installation of some ITH beds which will be completed in January, somewhere there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Colleague, the installation has been completed with regard to fifty IF beds and is a donation to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u48	The beds will run until December - January. This, Minister, has been recorded in the press. You can make the correction. As to beds and alchemys, let me say, around their number, it was stated yesterday that eighty ICB beds cannot function due to a lack of staff while they are ready. I will give you an example, Minister, from my home country. There are eight beds and four can work. With great effort and exceptionally, if you want, Norm's interventions can be done five. In other words, centrally, you have decided at some point that certain hospitals should be declared as reference hospitals for COVID -19. Are hospital people looking to find an answer what exactly does the state and the ministry want in this case - a department? A wing? The hospital? - to take the corresponding steps. There was no one to answer them. There was talk of a molecular analyst. It wasn't ordered, but why not, Minister, buy the molecular analyst since it's a CIVID-19 reference hospital? If he sends them to the most central hospital, an example at the Ryu Hospital, which my colleague here knows, there will be confusion, there will be no decongestion. So the truth is that consumables are expensive when orders are made by individual hospitals. But we have made you a proposal, Minister, that orders for consumables become central and not by individual hospitals in order to achieve economies of scale and not to cost us that much. Since March, SYRIZA has proposed the integration of primary care into the arsenal to deal with the coronary. The government over all these months - six, six and a half since - has deafed, heard or did not want to hear. And he came and said: yes, it is a positive decision. Retarded discovery, but "good late than ever" says the people. He's saying he's gonna be okay with primary care in the arsenal with an announcement. If there are or if there are no conditions, we'll see. But what happened? In an area of two health centers called reference centres and these, then other health centers are seconded by doctors to go to the hospital on a rampant basis. Can I tell you something, Minister? What's the problem? Whatever you expect the boom to pass. You don't want to take doctors, because that's up against your central perception. So you're saying we hire doctors and stay with us after amanati? But you won't be left amynati. It will be the necessary human equipment for the public health system. That's why you don't. All the conservatives, in all the health crises, whether it was an epidemic or a smog in London, approached things in the same sense, namely a lack of staff, a lack of heroism, and then wait until the bourgeois passes and we see. Finally, I want to say something about the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development. In a question I submitted, Mr Voridis, Minister for Rural Development, said that we would take a legislative initiative to make an advance in October and make an exceptional payment, he says, in spite of the fact that it was due in June. The amendment now comes and says that the advance should be granted until the end of January, that is to say, where it was said until the end of October. Suppose it was wrong? I honestly don't know what to assume or what to believe. However, in order not to abuse any more time, it takes seriousness and a responsible government does not appeal to "I am Moses and I will save you". It inspires seriousness to the Greek people. Things are serious, they're complicated. A dose of fear can also help, according to the logic of infectious words to discipline the world, but the above fear is a tooling. It leads to extreme phenomena, even to the logic of the social position. If someone gets a coronary epidermis and the threat of their economic destruction. So I say that there is no more explosive combination of a serious situation with an uncertain approach. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u49	We are completing this cycle in comfort, as you can see, with my colleague from Mera25, Angeliki Adamopoulou. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to make a concrete contribution to the draft legislation under discussion which has to do with a provision that has been analysed by previous colleagues. I shall refer to Article 16(2) for the natural treatment of children or adolescents. It therefore stipulates that physico-therapies in children and adolescents first carried out after the publication of the law are carried out and compensated only in a contracted service provider, whereas those children or adolescents who had already started physical therapy to a non-participating provider can complete their treatment, in which case the cost will be compensated directly to the beneficiaries. Here, then, are some problems and I will set an example in order to facilitate the debate. Let two children or adolescents with the same condition need special treatment physicotherapeutic treatments. The first takes physiotherapy before the law is published, while the second is then. In order to cover EUR 150 of the expenditure justified, the parents of the first child shall be entitled to choose any natural therapist they wish, whether or not concluded for any reason. On the other hand, the parents of the second child are obliged to choose only a contracted provider. So we understand that there is an inequality, a discrimination between the beneficiaries of the same necessary benefit. In other words, we have two gear beneficiaries. We recall that physiotherapy in children and adolescents with chronic conditions has never been included in the contract between ERPY and the Pan-Hellenic Phytotherapists Association, while physicotherapists with experience and specialisation in specific paediatric cases, can but under no circumstances be required to join this contract. Moreover, the EEAS does not know the actual number of beneficiaries of any special treatment. Already some parents have taken me that since 2017 they have been constantly looking for simple statistics to base their collective demands. They've never been provided with that evidence. So the question is, what method is the policy for the benefits concerned practically planned? The EUR 150 or obligation of the contracted provider on what exactly analysis and on what basis is it based on? That is to say, you have come up with this provision and we ask why the explanatory statement does not mention anything in that regard. Finally, the provision provides: children or adolescents who had started physiotherapy to a non-associated provider before the publication of the law may complete their treatment. There is an ambiguity here and we would like you to explain what the phrase 'can finish their treatment' means. Do you mean that until the current annual electronic prescription expires, everyone can continue with the non-confidential provider who had chosen and when the time comes to renew the opinion, should only be addressed to an enclosed or do you mean that it can continue with any non-confidential provider of its choice, until there is no longer a need for special treatment physiotherapy? There are problems, therefore, because there are children who need special life-threatening treatments, who have long-term cooperation with their provider, with their physico-therapist, who may be unconscious. In other words, there have been a number of relationships of confidence between the physiotherapist and the children for years. There's a close bond. So if family finances do not allow them, why do they not have the luxury of resigning from the EEAS compensation, what will happen next? What's gonna happen? A proven successful course of physiotherapy should be cancelled and a process initiated at the outset, which is surely painful psychologically and perhaps ineffective or even worse for their health course, should be started. So at a time when the EEAS so far justifies the EUR 150 for each beneficiary, why this unfavourable term of the contracted provider, which, as I said before, creates discrimination, is laid down. What is so problematic about parents and children choosing the therapist of their choice, justifying better cases of unequal treatment and worsening such a high risk for the health of patients, children and adolescents? What we see - and I have a document on this - is that you are finally adopting the recommendation that has been made to you by the EPPY. I have the decision number 917, of 9 July 2020. It essentially raises all these issues which you are now incorporating in this regulation. It says in particular, "We are sending a proposal to the Ministry of Health for legislation. The children who had started physiotherapy before 31 December 2019 shall be exempted from the provisions of paragraph (b) of Decision 1496/611/7/11-2019.’ In particular: "Chronic-diseased children will be subject to this exception provided that a new Ministerial Decision on individual requests under Article 39, i.e. physical treatment of adults, will be adopted until their treatment is completed. In the event of a new opinion issued on 1 January 2020, which concerns a new incident, an individual request will no longer be submitted and the beneficiaries should be addressed to enclosed physicotherapists.’ It is regrettable that this proposal has been adopted. I shall therefore close my position by asking you, like other colleagues, to withdraw this extremely problematic provision for the reasons I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. The Minister has the floor, Mr Kikilias, and immediately thereafter, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, thank you. I am going to need a little more time, I say this in advance because many issues have been raised by my colleagues and I do not want to leave anything unanswered. I had thought of supporting the bill as far as the main issues we are dealing with are concerned. But you know that it is reasonable and fair to answer questions from colleagues, since once again I thank those colleagues who raise issues and then at least remain in the Chamber in order to hear the answers, with the exception of the former Minister who had a duty to leave. In the criticism, which is being made by the parties of the Greater and Eleonian Anti-Population, it is against and inconsistent with the general sense that there is outside society of how we handle the issues of the coronary, the issues of the Ministry of Health, whether the Ministry of Health is only a ministry dealing with COVID -19 or with the other needs of patients, what are these reforms, which have gone ahead in these fourteen months and what are not, I will be allowed to be present. Secondary, Higher University Reference Hospitals, such as the Salvation, which we received in a poor state, have been upgraded in the middle of a coronary. In this hospital, nearly four hundred sanitary workers have been recruited, fifty new ICUs were created, donated by the Greek Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you one - and one - from the President and the Vice-Presidents of the House to the parties and colleagues for the new fifty MDGs. Also, five more ICUs are completed, a polite donation of a private person to Ms. Koutsuku's clinic. The Aerial Bridge connecting the main buildings with the O.R. and the I.C., substantially transforms the hospital into a very modern diamond for the National Health System. We did not receive the Salvation. But I want to go back and thank one - one and all of you, because you were kind enough to support the National Health System in the middle of a coronary and crisis. I should like to say that the implementation of a project that is not a preliminary project, which will remain permanently under the National Health System, which, after the competitive process, started its construction on 15 August and completed after two months, has not been done again. I am very pleased that this process of reform of our hospitals, with horizontal new and sanitary facilities for all hospitals in the first and second RES, bedcloths, blankets and pillows for all hospitals in the country, new laboratory and engineering equipment, at a very high level, in cooperation with all the regions from the ESDP which we have and we are taking a rapid look at - and I would like to thank the former regional directors and the current regional managers for this effort - six and a half thousands of ancillary personnel who have been hired in proper procedures in a coronary and absorbed. Also, with the completion of the competitive processes that we have announced or are going to publish, as well, the ones we have found from previous governance. The conversion, by modulation of contracts, of all paramedical nurses, meaning nurses, assistants, traumatists and midwives serving in the system within a coronary and before, by notice of the AACC and increased moleculation. Efforts are being made to implement the conversion program of subsidiary physicians to Curators II for evaluations. The extension and extension of project contracts by the OAED of the four thousand employees in the ESS, which was launched by the previous administration for one year. It is not Mr Bored or colleagues who have spoken of the communist rule and of the 'family'. Which "local", ladies and gentlemen? We haven't let a single man get lost from the National Health System whoever hired him. To leave our hospitals a little bit and go to legal persons, because that's where we've received incredible criticism. You, SYRIZA and the Change Movement, voted against - and made a terrible impression - the Quality Organisation a while ago on the safety of patients and the quality of health services. And I said to you: 'Don't vote micro-politically because 'before the elite speaks three' will come an institution to confirm whether we did well or not'. As a result, university professors, the doctors of the ESS, the public health professors rewarded this effort. It's for the benefit of patients. It has nothing to do with the present government. So Hans Kluge, the Director of WHO, comes in and sends a letter rewarding our efforts for the Health Quality Organisation. And now comes the World Health Organisation and rewards our efforts for our primary health care, for the anti-smoking law that we have implemented, for the excellent success of the entire National Health System in dealing with the coronary and the Health Quality Act. We are, of course, calling - and we accept - for his regional office, which is responsible for the Balkans and the south-eastern Mediterranean basins for the patient's Agency for Quality, Health and Safety, to come and be created here in Athens by a five-year contract and with the possibility of extension. I have brought you the agreement we signed with the World Health Organisation. [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same thing I was telling you about the ETA, if you remember. You have had strong reservations, ladies and gentlemen. You told me that I privatize and privatize the National Public Health Organisation. In fact, I was criticised for the name of the transformation given by the previous government. You all mean the former ERIC, I imagine, the kilowattage of the downtrodden world and the scientists who have been slandered about just and unrighteous. Justice is doing its job. I'm not involved in the work of justice. I have explained that the executive is different from legislative and judicial authority. I kept it, and we kept it out of hand these fourteen months. Is there anyone here who wants not to recognize or feels that this National Public Health Organisation has not offered the highest amount of pandemic? Aren't these young scientists that we all hired and hired successively over the years? Did you see any discrimination on the face of these people? Did you see, gentlemen, any partisan rule? Didn't we trust everyone? Didn't we take a step on the experts and scientists from a National Public Health Agency? Didn't we, Minister, give the Committee of Experts all your colleagues, doctors from former prime ministers, leading scientists, from all over the political spectrum, without any interest or concern about where they belong politically rather than solely on the basis of their science and the common nature of their tonights? Some go out to the public fora and express their opinion and many say to me: ‘Why, Minister, leave them and there is no measure for those who go out on television and talk?’ The common component of all these scientists, in the decisions that come after the vote, gives the magic of this committee and the possibility of each one having his personal opinion and ultimately all of them converging in one view as a single committee. Isn't that our problem as Greeks all these years? That we can't ever condone anywhere? Finally, in the midst of a crisis, there is this possibility, which I consider to be pluralism and a dowry for the way in which the country is governed, to trust experts and specialists in special cases to recognise that they know more than we do. It doesn't matter, ladies and gentlemen, if I'm the same doctor orthopaedic, a university doctor. I recognise myself that in my place tomorrow - tomorrow may be a lawyer, an engineer, an architect, a journalist, a civil servant, anyone. He has no obligation to know specific issues. But it has to respect the expert opinion, ask them, consult them and this source of knowledge to be a dowry for the country because we have excellent scientists. So the Quality Organisation didn't want to vote for him and I heard some serious political talk here about the Quality Organisation. But the World Health Organisation is coming and disproves you. I also heard about the president of the EEO that you objected to the way in which he would be part-time or full-time, etc. He negotiated, ladies and gentlemen - one of you spoke of clawback - in the middle of a coronary in large classes of drugs. I declare once again from the seat of this House that after five years of growing clawback to the drug, this year we will have a fall in clawback. Of course, where health and economic systems are collapsed worldwide and expenditure increases, we will have a reduction in clawback on the medicine and a rationalisation of EEA expenditure. That's all for the FDA. Let's just go to the EPPY a little while before I go to primary school. And what I didn't hear. I have heard - but the Minister is missing, but I will tell him again if he does not listen - that we have changed the percentages in the CDE and we have increased the rebate and we have photographed a businessman, etc., while the only thing we have done is equal treatment, ladies and gentlemen. For you, Minister, in your own legislation, and rightly so, have appointed a closed private clinic hospital with a specific price. Very good. Private clinics - rehabilitation centers. Same thing. So what did we do? With the same standards and the same standards, and with the rule of isology and iso-state, as long as the percentage of rebate and savings from private clinics, the same thing we did in the CCAs, the rehabilitation centres. What's the problem? Of course there's no problem. We are barely treated equally, which was not there. I also heard that we are interfering with the EEAS. Look out, I'm talking to you first about APPY. I've been talking to you about all the other organisms that are attached to the Ministry of Health. See what it's done to everyone, one to one. Not to forget "IFET S.A." which, with the prior administration of an exceptional man, top, Mr. Pantazi, we have done all the central supplies, as the institutions define, centrally, for personal protection, for testing and whatever it takes. Congratulations to IFET for the successful completion of the tender for rapid tests. The country has another eight hundred rapid tests since yesterday. Let's go to EPPY now. What had Mr. Katrugalos done in 2016 to the EMCDDA standards? President, non-executive, commander. Same on EPPY. Then he was fine, and now he's not? At that time this initiative was legislative and is now some other function of the public administration to which the Minister of Health is intervening with "locals" etc.Huh? He told the Minister that the conditions for the appointment of President, etc. are down. I see here the declaration for the former President of the EEA and has exactly the same qualifications, no change. Of course the position of the Vice-President, therefore, Vice-President, is no longer in place, so that there are no responsibilities involved. So red tape is falling and the advisors' armies are falling. And what do we do? As former ministers have rightly said, EEAY manages 6-7 billion a year, which is a huge sum. We are making an audit committee under the non-executive chairman in order to have internal audits of its financial institutions. Unless one is in trouble to control this organization internally, as it was created at a very difficult time, which was Minister Loverdos, with huge problems. This reform had to be carried out and was forced to do so in the midst of a crisis, with many problems and issues that were in place at the time. This organization must continue and take its course. It still has many problems: personal positions and other issues. There is no contract notice based on the head of the legal service. That's a big deal. In the crisis there have been hundreds of thousands of things, now we must continue to do more. I also spoke to the President of the Athens Bar Association and assured him that there are external associates - lawyers, sixty-eight, no one will hurt, no one is concerned about them. However, the work of the EEAS will be properly distributed so that they can be handled and when the time comes by a presidential decree, there will also be the Agency at last, because the position will be called. Be careful, neither will the EEA commander nor the Minister. The position of Head of Legal Service will be called. For the first time in history there is transparency and distinct positions and we are inhabited. I'm on my way to primary school. The World Health Organisation wants to take as a model the fact that we have managed to create, through the NRP and through the crisis, five hundred mobile groups in primary care, with which, ladies and gentlemen, we have already conducted three hundred thousand tests throughout the country free of charge. Who defines where he should be? Do we define it as known or not known? No, the committee of experts I mentioned earlier has set the conditions for testing in our hospitals, in our health centres, in our laboratories, in universities, in private laboratories and in mobile groups. You ordered us for problems at the PCR test. I would remind you that we started with eight hundred tests a day, these possibilities we received, these were the country, and we have come to do twenty thousand tests a day and with pooling even more, and we are the first European country that has been able to introduce what the World Health Organisation and the CDC have approved as a weapon into its patronage the rapid test. There was a very big problem in Moria and we came with the rapid test, with mobile groups, with the huge mobilisation of our hospital and health there to deal with them within ten days successfully. So, in primary school, what are you telling us? What the World Health Organization will do yesterday is congratulate the European Health Ministers meeting, five hundred mobile groups in the midst of a crisis, which can also test tomorrow or testing at home, rapid test, and so on, do you charge it as a primary problem? I have heard some colleagues who have said: 'You have delayed'. He made a structured and documented suggestion from Mr. Xanthos in the first wave of pandemic in what's about TOMY and health centers. I explained then that in our attempt not to disperse any further the virus we open the health centers big, as on Alexandra Avenue and do COVID -19 tests and limit hospitals, as this one works, so that it does not disperse. Now obviously in the second wave with enormous pressure worldwide there is the possibility and need to engage more hospital units. It's done. And we announced - beware - working quietly all summer, why our health centers had to be turned, these sixty with building upgrades, with a special triage, with isobox if needed, trained all their staff from the EASA and the EASC, sent instructions from experts, made simulations to see how it works in mixed centres that serve the citizen in all the other things that exist, because the ESA, as you can see, operates in all its other functions, as you see, and COVID -19. So we've got a double defensive zone. Only in Attica the first week half of the tests, which were carried out at the TLP and the emergency services, took place in health centers and with a date, scorched, organized and as appropriate. It's huge aid to the National Health System going to the next crisis. So there should be a measure here and that is consistent with what we say here in this House with what society believes. Today EOH was on the Constitution's metro and did horizontal epidemiological tests where we should and we believe. He has rushed to Macedonia and Thessaloniki to the problem we have. He's in Iannina, he's in Kosani, he's everywhere. He's a public health arm. Do You Remember? I told you in that bill a few months ago that this is his function, and it's pretty much been slandered, to let these young scientists do their job. And now I tell you the same thing about EEAS that it should be a one-stop buyer and seller of health services, have a dominant position on the market in Greece and everywhere and be able to negotiate from a position of power and the insurance prices and the way in which it will offer health services. My dear colleague, who spoke before me and who left, raised a matter of physiotherapists. But the previous political leadership - and rightly so - tried to have contracts with the physico-therapists for special education. We do the same, we give a year of adjustment for these families and children who are already in employment with physico-therapists for special treatment until all other physico-therapists are integrated and have a contract with the EEA. Isn't that fair? You want to get paid for by EPPY? You have to have a contract with EPPY. Based on the needs of the Greek public serving the citizens, EOPYY will operate, streamlined, modernised, digitised, everything has been put into the next generation of 1921: The digitisation of the national health system in hospitals, health centers, telemedicine, great tool for primary, huge and the way in which we want to achieve what we want along with special legislation that we will bring for the remote areas and the extra moleculation that must be in order to go there to doctors, nurses and other staff. I see this, ladies and gentlemen, as an organised, structured, innovative intervention and health policy. It's not random at all, it's not fragmentary. It is measured, it is quantified, it is in the heart of people who do not have and cannot be mainly those who use the National Health System. So it comes up to this bill to make its contributions further to citizens' convenience, to their service, to their support, to the provision of quality health services, to the assessment of health establishments, to their further strengthening. We are always open to any criticism especially from colleagues, we consider it an honor and privilege for a Member to consider reading a bill and coming here to exercise his criticism and get the answers he needs. But I am very sorry, seeing the image that exists worldwide, the way that other very powerful countries, very rich countries, strong health systems have faced COVID -19 and the problems that we face today and the state that we are facing in Greece and how the National Health System has achieved them with these heroes of the next door, our doctors, nurses, cleaners, bankers and other staff have to say that I am and are very proud of our efforts so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u53	And we thank the Minister. At some point, Minister, you will announce what amendments you will be accepting so that colleagues can be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u54	I will now, Mr President. And then I'll say about the legal improvements. These are the two amendments, 525/93 and 526/94, which we are accepting. Amendment No 525/93 is the designation of towns and towns, where hospitals, health centres, as barren and problematic classes, are based, because of social, geographical and transport conditions. And Amendment No 556/94 concerns the Ionian and non-Ionian Radiated Radiation Pollution Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u55	After Mr Screkas was placed on behalf of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, but also Mr Stakoras, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, will have to come back. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Skourletis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate today could have been an easy debate if it took place in another year. It's a contract between the Greek public and a private institution. Obviously, such contributions must be accepted without having the illusion that we can substitute for the need for a strong public health system. But this debate is under the heavy shadow of the pandemic. Therefore, I think we should stand up to what has happened in the country in recent months, what has happened in the first phase, what is happening now in the second phase. Honestly, Minister, when you have just left - I think that in the morning, in your brief speech, you have probably escaped from the tone of voice. Things require us to be nun, to be unprecedented. We are talking about a pandemic that is happening in conditions of total globalisation. The world was never as globalized as it is in this year. You have come and told us that you do not "stick a fly on your sword". I would tell you to put the tone down and remind you that if you do not want to have a fly on your sword, you should have heard from the outset what we have proposed, against this very serious situation we are experiencing, namely that there should be an intergroup committee which has a say in the management of the pandemic, and as regards the assignments made under a special regime, but they give opportunities for other kinds of things and as regards recruitment, the hierarchy of measures, that is, the need to have a systematic programme, a programme that we have never seen in the past few months, because it is true that after the first phase you have smashed the time and today we are literally chasing the facts. If you do not want to raise a fly in your sword, Mr Minister, you will have to answer us how it is possible to bring scandalous arrangements, which blatantly favour the private sector, the private state-owned sector, such as the one that took place around the ICMs, the possibility of increasing the number of beds in the ICMs, without at the same time - and that is the worst - to have a duty to manage them with the relevant staff. Be careful to see, you who do not "show fly to your sword". The same, in keeping with the analogy, do with the new ICMs that you have announced. Yesterday we had a very nice feast for the fifty ICs, the donation of the House, but it is a half step when they are not directed by the medical staff concerned. Isn't that right, ladies? Because it is not enough to have the beds, it is not enough to have the cardiographs, it is not enough to have the oxygen facilities, it is necessary for qualified staff. So you come in and make a policy of a battalistic type. Take from other places and move these people like - as, to cover the new IF. Is that how we're gonna answer? Is there a need, ladies and gentlemen of the government, on the occasion of this pandemic, to draw the right conclusions and organise a medium-term plan beyond the immediate measures, which will just come to make the public health system strong and make it in such a way that the good of health is accessible to everyone? Or are you going to run annoyingly? Because I see that you are feeling very annoying right now, that you are forced to make public spending, when in your mind you are facing this period as a parentheses, to go back to the well-known logic of PPPs, the private sector. Another question. Last week, my two kids had to run a test. Luckily, it wasn't positive. I took a look at various private structures in the neighborhood, because it had to be done immediately, to see how much it would cost. The cheapest price - which you do not often meet - is EUR 75. And the question that is being raised at the moment is this: why not prescribe the tests at the moment? What's the answer? The answer is one. Because the wolf's happy. There are small and large diagnostic centers, which literally treasure. Where's the treasure? On the basis of the anguish of the problem of Greek citizens. Do we have enough money? Have you seen what's going on in the economy? Do you know what's waiting for us? Can the family budget take away from elsewhere and push them on to the tests? He'll do it, but at what cost? Are these all questions which we should not ask? You're confusing? Beyond the immediate needs, you talked about recruitment. I ask you, are these recruitments permanent or fixed-term? Is there a need for permanent recruitment? Beyond the issues of the context, how many gaps are today in the public health system? It's twenty or twenty-five thousand. Is there any need to draw up a plan so that within the next three, four, five years, these posts with permanent staff will be covered? Does this respond to the need for a strong public health system? Is this the answer to the need to reverse the Brain Drain, for which you are constantly cutting yourself? So do you feel annoying when you talk about the need to support the public health system? So there is no such design. On the contrary, there is a need, yesterday, to set up a programme of fifteen thousand permanent recruitments. Ladies and gentlemen, are we going to get to the European average at some point in terms of public spending as a percentage of GDP? Is this your design or will you come and tell us great words and, indeed, confused, as the Minister did this morning? How much paid communication will you put on the market to cover the problems, to cover your guilt, because you cannot believe in a public health system? How much can you cover things up? These are relentless questions for which you unfortunately have no answer. Because when we talk about the health system, the public health system must also look at working conditions, so we must talk about stable employment relationships rather than contractors. We in much more difficult circumstances, and when there was the rule of recruitment - we received it one by five, and we reached it one by one - and we started and made permanent jobs. Do you remember them you were telling us in the election? That you will abolish the one-off rule and one-intake rule and return to five to one. Under pressure from events you said 'yes, we do not mean that for the health sector' and now, thankfully, you have swallowed that. Have you swallowed it temporarily or will you come back when things - and I hope that will soon be done - stabilise in the health sector? Or will you come back to the path of neoliberal dogmatism, which leads to them in the end the conscious policies of fragmentation, lack of substantial programming, not ultimately serving with permanent staff of the public health system? As we speak, you say that we unfairly accuse you of a policy which strongly favours the private sector. Is it not Mr. Majorkin's case - should I say it on a voluntary basis - something problematic? Has the former scientific adviser, who has just taken over, resigning from his previous post, discriminatoryly operated towards a particular private body? Isn't that right? Do they not need an answer to all these questions? Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand what the messages of this time are. The pandemic is not only about health. The pandemic changes all issues, overthrows stereotypes, changes work, conditions of work. The pandemic has led to a uniform and universal economic crisis, which is almost all about the planet. Therefore, you cannot treat her as something occasional. We all have to draw the right conclusions. And the conclusion is that the role of the public health sector must be decisive, decisive. Because, as we have said before, health cannot be a merchandise, and that is what everyone must have access to. Everybody! So invest in health. Your policy, fragmentary policy, incomplete policy, and "closing the eye" policy to individuals already creates the first signs of inconvenience in Greek society. For example, the educational community and, in particular, the students, who are forced to stack in classes that are not appropriate, while throughout the past period you have done nothing, although you have seen it. You knew what the data were. It was more than sure we'd have a second pandemic wave. You didn't do anything to open the schools for sure. Now that the educational community is uproaring, we see situations which are, not just sad, directly affecting democracy itself. I am referring to the fourteen-year-old, who was enclosed in the GDR for four days, to come out yesterday and, from what the report says today, the interrogator asks him what his views are, whether he will reconceive and go back to demonstrations. Where did that sound? What justice can he do with that? Is it the justice of the prosecutor who told the Golden Dawn that there was no restriction on the parties and that there was a suspensive character in the judgments? This justice, unfortunately, is not matched by the public's sense of law. And that is not an intervention. It is an obligation, at least in this Chamber, to make such a criticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. First of all, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stavouras, and then the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Skrekas, has the floor to place them on the amendment by a general number of 519 and a specialist of 87. Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to inform the House, as I did a quarter ago in the Committee on Economic Affairs, that the Hellenic Republic just came out on the market once more. We've been on the market for a 15-year extradition. It is recalled that the first time in the last decade we had come out was February 2020, at a rate of 1.91%. We look forward to quite a lower rate in this issue. Already, the current government, apart from the issue it has just started, has lifted from the markets EUR 14 billion through six successful issues, at extremely low borrowing cost: half and in many cases one third of the country's borrowing costs until summer 2019. Six publications, which constitute a step in the confidence of international markets in the economic policy pursued and the country's prospects. The economy finds a good step forward, recovers its confidence, and this is what we expect to be done with today's publication. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to support the amendment that the President has mentioned. The theory of 'Janu', which has been severely affected by many regions of our country, has been the basis for speeding up a series of targeted initiatives and interventions that we planned in the previous period to improve the existing framework of grants to enterprises affected by extreme weather conditions. It is an improvement of the existing framework, according to which the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the compensation of companies affected by natural disasters, with a grant of between 30% and 70% of the damage to buildings, equipment, raw materials, goods and trucks for public and private use, recorded as destroyed. This is an improvement in the framework, with essential aims of speeding up procedures, strengthening the effectiveness of the measure and ensuring fairness in the allocation of resources. Since the first moment, then, we have made a series of service, regulatory and legislative interventions, including: Firstly, the significant expansion of the perimeter of executives who can participate in the relevant audit committees, with a view to the possibility of using staff from the wider public sector as well as from the official scientific bodies of the public sector. Secondly, the creation of a flexible scheme for promoting the assessment of losses to be assessed by the firms affected so that the procedure can be fed at regular and short intervals and move forward. Thirdly, the granting of an advance as part of the grant, as it has emerged from the relevant regional departments and committees to enterprises affected by natural disasters. Fourthly, the assignment to the information and support centres of the Ministry of Finance of the seats affected by regional units of citizens' information on the documents required and the associated procedures for grants to firms affected. Fifthly, the definition of a telephone line for information and guidance in the Secretariat-General for Economic Policy on the documents and procedures for grants to enterprises. The positive results of these interventions are already visible in the implementation of the framework of grants to enterprises affected by the 'January' theory, as the number of committees responsible increases with the participation of representatives of the wider public sector, as well as of managers, as I said, from the state's official scientific bodies. It is true - it is true - that this figure is increased even further so that the process of assessments and assessments of damages by the relevant departments in the region is progressed rapidly, contributing to the rapid payment of both the advance and the total compensation to the firms affected. In this respect, the logic of Article 3 of the amendment, which provides for compensation to members of the committees set up and set up by the self-government bodies for the recording and assessment of losses, is also included. Thus, all these committees of the regions which are called upon to carry out a demanding, both in terms of time and in terms of difficulty are also being compensated. At the same time, we are moving towards clarifying and extending the perimeter of the framework for subsidising business which is affected by natural disasters. Specifically, with regard to the circular of the competent authority and the Secretary-General of Economic Policy to the regions, details were given for the implementation of the enterprise grant framework, emphasising the beneficiaries of a grant, the categories of losses which are affected and covered both in supporting documents and in advance. In particular, with a view to facilitating a procedure for compensation for farmers, it became clear that, on the one hand, beneficiaries include agricultural holdings and the main occupation of farmers and, on the other, the categories covered by their machinery, goods and raw materials. In this context, in response to the particular circumstances and disasters that have arisen, Article 4 of the amendment is also included where these provisions are enriched with new provisions, which are in line with the specific regulatory framework of the European Union. They are new forecasts for the means of production and the products stored. Thus, this grant, which until now concerned, as I mentioned at the outset, building facilities, equipment, raw materials, goods and lorries, now includes losses to stored products and means of production. In fact, in order to make it clearer and clearer, with the related legislative improvement that will be followed, it is clearly stated that the means of production are also included in the capital. With this provision, this state responds to the unprecedented in-depth and extensive disasters of natural disasters on farms, contributing significantly to the restoration and development of conditions of re-launching production in the rural areas affected. These are areas where primary production activity is crucial for its economic and development. In this respect, the provision of Article 2, which provides for the allocation of funds from the Ministry of Finance to the ELGA, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, will always confirm this, as will the Minister responsible, with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The ELGA responds to the increased needs resulting from the compensation and to the compensation of production destroyed by the natural disaster by making rapid autopsies and evaluations, by providing an advance payment, by exempting those insured from the obligation to pay the relevant assessment fees and by setting the maximum annual compensation limit at 100% of the insured value of production. All this is provided for in Article 1 of the amendment we are debating today. In this way, the coverage of all the requests that have arisen in the agricultural production of the regions affected by the 'January' theory is achieved, covering both production and production means, so that these rural areas can quickly recover. Ladies and gentlemen, all the institutional and regulatory conditions have been established to support the affected areas and to return them to normality. The implementation of these is ongoing at a rapid pace, in a context of close cooperation with local government bodies, which are responsible for supporting and assisting the citizens as soon as possible. This is getting more and more intense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u59	We continue with the Secretary of State for Rural Development and Food, Mr Skreka, in order to be placed on his Ministry's behalf for the same amendment. Here you go, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following on from what the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagiras, said earlier, I would like to stress that in fact the intensity and severity of the Mediterranean cyclone 'Januan' that hit Greece - Thessaly, Fthiotida, Iato-carnania, regions of the Peloponnese and regions of Western Greece - on 17 September 2020 has caused enormous catastrophes. We have all witnessed a flood that, among other things, hit the city of Carditsa as a whole and plunged it under millions of tons of flood water. The size, however, and the extent of the disasters on farms, are hundreds of thousands of acres of damaged farmland, thousands of dead animals, thousands of lost beehives, as well as damage to equipment, facilities and stored materials. All of this requires the immediate financial support of the affected, such as the Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, mentioned in his on-the-spot visit that he made on those days in the affected areas. Today, then, we are introducing arrangements for the excellent treatment of this situation, which, among other things, focuses on what the Minister for Finance said, concern: Firstly, in Article 1 we extend the ceiling for compensation per parcel to 100% of the insured value, from 80% currently in force. What does that mean? Where, for example, a cotton grower insures its parcel, a shell of possible damage, there is a ceiling, a ceiling in the insured capital resulting from a multiplication between the average production of the parcel on the market price resulting from the average of the last three years. If we say that this is close to a height of EUR 140, for example in Cardiff, as an insured capital, until now if the farmer suffered 100% damage, the farmer would be compensated for up to 80% of the insured capital, i.e. EUR 140. We allow it to be compensated up to 100% of the subscribed capital, i.e. up to EUR 140. Secondly, in the same article, paragraph (b) in response to the need for direct financial support and knowing the bureaucratic obstacles, but also usually the delay in the procedures for compensation through the ELGA, we are allowing advance payment in respect of compensation by means of decisions of the ELGA Board of Directors up to 31-1-2021, by way of derogation from the applicable provisions. So what do we do that way? We succeed - as soon as the procedures described in this legislative provision are completed - in giving an advance, a generous advance payment of compensation to those who have suffered a loss of 100% or very great damage and thus enable them to survive this period, but to start work for the next growing season, to live their family for as long as the assessments and the clearance of the compensation lasts. Furthermore, in paragraph (c), we are legislating what we have already announced, the discharge of the payment of the assessment fees. It has already been announced and we are legislating under this provision. Also, in Article 2, as the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavros, in order to achieve all the above, we are financially supporting this excellent regulation, only on this occasion, the appearance and the response of this great central phenomenon of the Mediterranean cyclone 'Janu', ELGA, over and above the financial support already announced by the Prime Minister, about EUR 30 million, before the cyclone is present, so that ELGA has the financial means now to deal with the exceptional damage that has been done due to this phenomenon. In this way, the state, the government, Mr Mitsotakis shows that we are next to farmers, we support the primary sector at any difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Mr Bukokouros, as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, has just asked for a small intervention. For three minutes, Mr. Bukowo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u62	Yes, I'll only use the protology, Mr. President. Although the ministers have responded in detail and it is indeed very important that the amendment under general number 519 on the support of the ELGA and the compensation to be paid to both the European capital and the machinery and the facilities and the stored products and 100% of the insured production for the first time. I would like two clarifications from the State Secretary for Rural Development. If, after the vote, an estimate can be made as to when the advances in compensation will be paid to you. And because the whole - unprecedented - is being compensated for for for the first time, I would like to put one point to you which has nothing to do with the amendment, but it is a parallel one. And what's that? As you know - and that is why you also receive the corresponding provisions - there have been very great damage to the farms, particularly to the farms - if I may say so - on the coastal farms, but also in other areas where an incredible amount of water has fallen. It has gone all the fertile soil, it has opened sprinkles of great things that our farmers are trying to close. This will be a problem, Minister: by remote sensing in spring, those who are part of nitrate programmes, but also those who are subsidised by 'practice', which, if you like, is 35% of the total subsidy, have a first basic obligation to collect these aids: to have their holdings in good agricultural condition. Irrespective of any compensation, which is rightly given by both the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Rural Development - we are surprised that the speed and scale of the compensation - will have to be your legislative initiative so that the term 'good agricultural situation' is excluded from the areas affected by the next, but also from the aftermath of remote sensing, because it is very likely that the land will not come back to their pretext because this is a technical issue, if you want it to be a matter of cultivation and many issues arise. To exclude, therefore, the term ‘good agricultural situation’ from the farms affected to this extent and gradually restored, at least for the current and next growing season, so as not to cause problems with remote sensing. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to reply to my dear colleague, but the Minister has come and I imagine he will reply. When the Minister said that he did not lift a fly on his sword, he meant moral matters, which all responded to one by one. And, yes, we are calling for consensus today on the great issue of dealing with the pandemic with supplies and competitions. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: what consensus? The one you asked to deal with the refugee on your day? What competitions, what assignments were then, at that time? Have you ever thought of calling for the consent of the then-accompany officer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u64	Yes, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the right as a parliamentary representative. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. In the accounting report, the Director-General, it says that the extra cost of raising the threshold from 80% to 10% is 10,000, 000, that means that 80% of the total damage is estimated at about 500,000,000, to get out of numbers - while the Ministry's estimates are that the total damage exceeds 100,000,000. So we're talking about 60,000, and your estimates are 100,000,000. The remaining 40,000,000 missing, where will they come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. In the observation of my dear colleague from the Communist Party of Greece, I would like to say this: You understand that those who are deceived in 80% of the insured capital and who we are withdrawing this ceiling, this roof and it goes to 100%, are those who have been damaged at first 100%. Not everyone's got 100% damage. And, of course, the estimates remain estimates until we see the final result from ELGA's competent departments and steps. So even if we theoretically discuss the estimate of EUR 50 000 000, that is 50 000 000, but for those who have suffered damages close to 100% of the insured capital. There's a lot of damage that's not at 100%, it's at 50%, it's at 60%, it's at 70%. They did not slap at 80% of the insured capital to make more revenues, let's say, greater compensation with the provision that we are going through today. That's the first. Secondly, what my dear colleague, the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, has said: you have correctly identified an issue which we can deal with through the possibility of 'for force majeure'. Once this phenomenon, a theory, has been excluded from these cases, where the field that was passive has been extinct, there is no, or other fields may have tons of bearers of material or of bitches, which have caused catastrophes. It is what Mr Stakoras said as compensation for the European chapter, namely the damage suffered by the field itself as land, as ground where there will be provision for 'for reasons of force majeure' so that there is no penalty if the person who suffered this damage falls under a programme of the Ministry of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u68	We continue with the list of Members of Parliament. I call to Stepma the Member of the New Republic, Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos, for seven minutes. Here, Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the ELGA amendment, which directly concerns farmers and farmers affected in Thessaly, I would like to say a few words about the main body of the bill. Since the establishment of the Greek state, ladies and gentlemen, the donations of national benefactors have been crucial for modernising the country and for meeting social needs. This tradition, a sample of high patriotism, but also of sincere humanism, is indeed extremely encouraging that it continues uninterruptedly from the Onassis Foundation, which provides important services in all sectors, particularly in the sensitive health sector by building a new wing and equipment of the "Onasian Cardioclastic Center" provided for in the draft law under discussion. I would also like to point out that the health provisions are necessary, as the extraordinary health situation continues, the pandemic continues to trouble the whole world, the health system is under serious pressure, and the anxiety of the citizens is evident about what is going to happen. That is why it is extremely encouraging that the government is facing chronic diseases and practically strengthening the public health system. But, Mr President, I should like to focus my attention on the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development to compensate the affected farmers of Thessaly from 'January', after which they also left - the Minister of Finance and the State Secretary for Rural Development. Farmers and farmers in Farsala literally lost the land under their feet. In order to be able to correct, it is necessary to vote in favour of the amendment to the ELGA, so that for the first time advances in compensation are given until January of next year, as the amendment says - I would like to believe that they will be given earlier, in October, as originally said - and, of course, they will be exempted from the estimated fees which touch almost 800,000 euros. Particularly positive is the provision for compensation at 100% of the insured value of production and reflects the Government's practical interest in faster healing of the wounds caused by the Mediterranean cyclone. In practice, this, according to the General Accounting Office of the State, is translated into an additional 10,000 000 euros for farmers. Both the introduction of the advance, and the 100% compensation, I believe, should be seriously considered as permanent reforms of the country's agri-security system in the context of the cost study carried out on behalf of the ELGA. Ladies and gentlemen, the disasters from the 'January' have caused the affected farmers and farmers exceptional expenses and considerable financial obligations, which cannot be directly covered. As many of them point out, in order for the fields to be grown again, they must soon become all the means of production that have been destroyed. The damages are large in equipment and machinery, tractors, drilling, pumps, lorries and others which, in accordance with existing legislation, do not qualify for State aid compensation through ASEAN. However, these are extremely necessary to continue production and have been declared in a separate field in the applications made to ELGA by the affected. Article 4 of the amendment speaks of the possibility of a grant, he says, 'it is possible to grant a grant through the Public Investment in Industry and Crafts Programme, Commercial Shops, Agricultural Holdings and other undertakings, referring to a CFP'. I listened carefully to the Minister of Finance. However, the procedures for restoring production means should be clarified as soon as possible. And since we are talking about RPAs, because there are questions about the incompatibility of aid, I would ask that there be clarifications as to whether the regulation in Article 4 on the irresponsibility of grants also relates to aid through RPAs in fixed capital. However, the quality of cotton and corn in the affected areas is also a problem, as I am being transported by producers from the Farsalon to the flooded fields, but production has not been destroyed by 100%. The quality of cotton is clearly degraded, a problem particularly intense for cotton seeds that requires increased cultivation costs. Unfortunately, ELGA has no provision in this case, since there is no specific insurance category for sports centres. In addition, as they say cotton producers from the villages of Farsalon with degraded quality cottons, during the visit of ELGA valuers, it was suggested that they be harvested with raspberry, as the “Stripper” cotton stripers are known. However, this is how they fear not to lose the associated aid due to the high percentage of foreign matter in the cotton to be delivered. It is a good thing that there should be a clear answer for that, so that they know what farmers are doing. Finally, Mr President, there is rightly a concern for the staff of the ELGA and those responsible for the work of recording and assessing damage. Their efforts - from what I am able to know from the province of Farsalon - are indeed hard. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems from the 'January' are more than they appear at first sight. The frequency and size of intense climatic events in recent years require us to provide for a pillow, a pigeon, to help the affected ones directly through the new rural development programme. However, it is clear, Mr President, that the farmer has the state, a government, the Mitsotakis Government, which does not make promises, but he respects his hardship and helps him in doing so, in order to overcome the calamity he has received. However, because winter is ahead, there must be no room for oligopoly from the state mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u70	We are also grateful to our colleague. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mrs Maria Kefala, has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mrs. Head, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today unfolds the government's political practice in the field of health, a policy of multidimensionality, because it comes to dealing with problems relating to pandemic on the one hand and presenting a dynamic one on the other, in cooperation with the private sector, to establish and proceed with a project that is a reference to the public health good both for Athens and Greece as a whole. I am referring, of course, to the ratification of its amendment by 26-7-2018 donation of the Joint Benefit of the Joint Foundation "Alexandros Onassis" and the Greek State, a contract which provides, among other things, for the construction and full equipment of a new ward of the "One Heart Surgery Centre" with a parallel upgrade of existing infrastructure, the establishment and equipment of the "National Transplant Centre", the establishment and operation of a modern and fully renewed Paediatric Clinic specialist in Paediatric Cardiology and Cardiocracy with the distinctive title of "Occupy of Children", the creation of a helicoway for the urgent transport of patients and grafts. This is indeed a great donation, a great work worthy of the foundation, which in practice confirms that our national benefactors have left and continue to leave their mark indelibly in the course of our country, particularly in difficult circumstances. With regard to the provisions now in place to address the risk of the spread of the coronary, the Ministry of Health brings a number of regulations relating to the best possible adaptation of the State to the changing data and to the additional measures which will constitute an impediment to the second wave of the pandemic, a second wave which is already here. The daily briefing on the path of the disease in our country and worldwide shows us in the clearest way that the coronary has not yet been defeated. Epidemiologically, we may be at a good level in relation to the rest of the world and compared to the rest of Europe, as is apparent from the European maps, and that is clearly what we are satisfied with. But there must be no reassurance at all, and we as a state are not reassured. Every day we look at scientific data, we take the experts' proposals seriously and do the right thing. Already yesterday, the Prime Minister opened fifty new beds at the Intensive Treatment Unit in "Salvation". Other two hundred and sixty eight ICM beds and sixty two MMF beds are made. The aim of reaching Europe's average will be achieved. By the end of the year we will reach the thousands of two IF beds in the country. An important move which must be emphasised is the staffing of these units, so that they operate with experienced staff on their first day of operation. No-one! No-one! - our fellow citizen has not been deprived of care either at the level of normal care, either at the level of increased care or even intensified treatment. There are also massive tests aimed at specific population groups, such as nursing homes and closed structures, but to any single citizen there is a need to carry out this free of charge. The Ministry of Health and the entire government show their active presence in this difficult coronary battle every day. It is obvious that in all the health structures of the country, and much more those that form the reference centres for the coronary, a series of interventions have been launched and implemented to meet the role assigned to them by the state. However, the challenges that medical and nursing staff face daily are large and as a living organism in full operation the National Health System has finite potential. Let us be very careful about this next period, because otherwise the system will be pressurised, and that is something we do not want. That is where each and every one of us must understand the seriousness of the danger of pandemic. We are not allowed to defy experts' instructions. It is up to us to protect the people we love and ourselves. The virus is invisible, subtle and does not look at age or social classes or any other characteristic of identification and self-determination of social, political, or economic attribute. We're all on the same boat. Developments in the public health sector have been numerous and dense in recent months. We hope and hope that soon we will have the vaccine in our hands. Until then, however, we must show the necessary seriousness, respect the measures and understand that the state is here to help and pass us safely on to the next day. And I would like, Minister, to say a few words, although you are already on the amendment that I have tabled and which you have accepted. Amendment No 526 on the Ionian and non-Ionian Radioactivity Commission extends the circle of scientists, including the chairman of the committee, and extends to the extent, in terms of the specificity and hospitality of the chairman. To date, there has been the possibility for a teacher, coordinator, director of the ESS of radiation diagnostic, nuclear medicine and radiotherapy, and this is now being extended to a director of radiation diagnostic, nuclear medicine, radiotherapy and invasive radiation. Also, it can be this scientist, the candidate committee president from a hospital of the RIS, from a university hospital, or from a military hospital. I think it's in the interest of the committee. We have very good scientists in the country. There is the possibility for even more of them to be candidates for this position. Thank you very much for your acceptance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u72	And we thank Mrs. Head. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Plearis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill brought by the Ministry of Health to a number of other actions that have been taken in order to strengthen the National Health System, to have more ID beds, to have partnership and assistance from the private sector, as is an institution in this case, and to be able in a first phase to deal with the pandemic and then all that will be created will be a framework that will remain within the National Health System. Many times SYRIZA's colleagues especially try to transfer the conversation by distorting and reality to the way the crisis is managed, if you want, blinding and not accepting that the Greek Government and the specific leadership of the Ministry of Health and the Minister Vassilis Kikilis and the Deputy Minister Vassilis Kontozamanis have been very successful in managing the first phase of the pandemic again the messages of the second phase of the pandemic are very positive even though obviously this second wave has come much more aggressive. And there is a criticism here of people who now have prior governance and we can see what they have handed over and what this leadership has been called upon to manage. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that 2018 was anticipated on an IF without a coronary is a reality. There was a world waiting for normal therapy that had to go to I.T. And now we're in a semester that we've reached the meth beds near the thousand and donations and as much reinforcement as we can. And because there's a lot of talk about donations, we need to be clear about understanding the conception between the centreright and the centre-left, which seems to be on the small things. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we have voluntarily given a portion of our wages and within these donations you see is this part as well. The Change Movement respectively gave a section. SYRIZA has tabled an amendment that high-level wages must be reduced so that this amount can go for the management of COVID -19. The amendment has not been voted on. So that's the difference of action from theory. They have tabled the amendment, but their salaries have been properly taken down. That must be said at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u74	You're wrong. Ask Kastoria Hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u75	I don't know what you did on your own, but your wages got them. We applied here normally and put in the management of the account. Bring me in your parliamentary group that you have given the account for the management of COVID -19. All the Members of the New Democracy did this. Look at what happens, this party tried to rely on either imaginary or, if you like, existing scandals, but turn them into completely different directions. Mr Paulakis came and told you here about the private and public partnership and that he wanted to take the 'Dynnan'. Do you know what happened, ladies and gentlemen? SYRIZA had forsaken us that we let the auction "Dynan", which was auctioned at EUR 120 million and all the public's obligations were paid, and then SYRIZA wanted to enter the public and undertake 300 million commitments. And now Mr. Paulakis told you from this step, when he was called "sales" that he would come to the public at a much lower price because he has 30 million losses. And it was a sellout of 120 million, and now the bank wanted to pay it at a much lower price. And they were trying to say that it was public while it was not a public institution, it was an institution of the "Red Cross" and some with a target wanted to put it in public in order to get all the responsibilities of the Greek taxpayer. Mr Paulakis told you here something nice, piano: 'In the rehabilitation centers you made the scale of 10%'. If, then, the 10% scale is scandalous and are favoured by the recovery centres that are in the upper category, you at 10% of the clinics - and here comes the minister right and unifys the rebate - mean that you wanted to favour the big clinics? Why didn't you have the big clinics at the same rate as the rehab centers at 20%? Because if it is to favour large people with 10% in rehabilitation centres, they are also favoured by the large in clinics. Do you see that many times are called lame things here? Mr. Xanthos, you and Mr. Paulakis are responsible for the fact that you have tried to get away with spending on both the medicine and diagnostics and everywhere, with the rebate covering small clawbacks. You've reached diagnostic tests to have 50% rebate. But this is an alchemy. Expenditure is not controlled, but you are trying to baptize the excess rebate in order to show a smaller clawback while action in this Ministry is in the opposite direction, how do we really control expenditure, so that we know what amounts and quality indicators - with the quality bill that you voted against - will be able to take and by quality operations, so that suppliers can respond to the reality and control expenditure. You referred to the EEA. EPPY, ladies and gentlemen, because this is where we have to have a memory, that is something that SYRIZA voted against. EEAY came here, was the unification of all the funds, before Mr Berchimi and Mr Playannako were presidents in the organization. And Mr. Buddour at first and Mr. Near, who received an agency that had united all the funds and took him a lot of steps forward and evidently, and Mr. Bersimis and Mr. Playannakos did these steps, but they didn't find a body that didn't exist. They found an organization made by the previous governments, which SYRIZA voted against, and they had reached a level that was very good. Of course they also have a contribution from the presidents that you have made. But should you, ladies and gentlemen, say about the partisanism, which you now want to see the positions that exist and now has never been done by the government? Your candidates are in these positions. He's at your D.C.E.L.D. mayor's. He is here, with all due respect to Mr Marcos, who has the first case in the years in which someone at the same time was a party Member and president at the ERCH. In other words, he agreed to be an advisory body to Mr Kikilia and at the same time to be a member of the SYRIZA. And you're coming to say a party domination? Let me tell you the case, Mr. Xanthi, do you know that Mr. Near the EPPY since the first day he gave you his resignation to Mr. Kurublis and you and you, and you kept him as long as he wanted? Where did you come and increase everyone's births, during the three years, have you made them five years, having put people in order to want to run the state through positions? And world and technocratic - yes, no problem - but also world party and purely party parties put into positions that were technocratic. And why did you increase your term of office when you were "flying"? And you're going to tell us about a party state? The changes made to EEAS are towards better functioning of the Agency. And with the clarification made by Mr Kikilias - because I was also concerned about myself and I spoke to my colleagues in the AACC - I explained from this step forward that there will be a moment when there will be a call for the post and for the chief, so there is no question of the question of what we have seen as lawyers since this position will be called. With these thoughts, we call on everyone to vote in favour of the bill because they are closer to both transparency and strengthening the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds because my colleague has referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u77	Your name said. Stand up and take the floor to explain what the staff are, first of all, to give you the floor, because I did not understand. He said your name, said your quality. Explain what the staff are and not any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u78	From what he said only my name you kept.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u79	Just give me a minute to explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u80	Listen, Mr President, like some other colleagues who have spoken in the past: he said that my presence on the Central Board of Health, as elected Chairman of the Central Council, is proof of partisanism at the time when the Government of the New Democracy had been elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u81	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u82	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u83	You must know that the Central Board of Health is a highly technocratic body which has been operating for decades under any governmental presences, regardless of its president's status. So this instrument and, more importantly, the Ministry's will to abolish me is the most important example of the will to impose the party rule. As for the party rule over New Democracy, only for the four hundred poster...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u85	Please, Mr. President. ...at Maximus we'd like you to give us an answer once.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u86	Mr Marcus, because you're a new colleague, I have to tell you that this is not personal. I gave you the floor to explain, but you didn't explain. Mr Ploris has made a political assessment and position, which he has the right to do. He said - and, in my judgment, we are all living here - some facts. This isn't personal, it didn't exaggerate you, it didn't turn against you with characterizations. Mr Contozamanis has asked for the floor. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a clarification. Mr. Marcus, don't take it personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u88	Note what he says!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u89	...because the Central Board of Health has remained the ones the previous government has placed. It's not about party rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u90	All right, I think this has been settled and we are going further. I would like to give the floor to my colleague from the Change Movement Mr. George Mulkiotis. Immediately after that, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos, will take the floor. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, the horn pandemic no doubt caused a strong shock in humanity, like, of course, in Greek society. The battle against this killing virus has not yet been judged, but the catastrophic consequences on health, education, employment, the economy and social life are enormous. The bitter truth is that public health is severely ill. It's not in a normal bed, but it's probably in the intensive. Instead of dealing with appropriate weapons, with an integrated plan to upgrade the National Health System, the government is more or less legislating with the dropper. For six months with various fragments, however, it has been running behind developments. I imagine we all know that the key problems of public health, such as the serious subsidization of hospitals, the abandonment of primary health care, the lack of adequate infrastructure and equipment, the Brain drain of medical and nursing staff are not solved by fireworks and, of course, by temporary measures. In fact it was the pandemic, which forced the number of IF beds to increase in public hospitals. Instead of ensuring that they are permanently operated, the government so long wants to get them to work through secondments from other hospitals, no matter what the cost, no more than the dehydration of other hospital structures in personnel. The same, of course, is the case in the ESS. In my prefecture, in Boeotia, for example, subsistence is a given, which, of course, stifles the basic clinics and is treated with personal movements of doctors from health centres to hospitals in the prefecture, but without prejudice to the weakening of primary health structures. This puts the safety of patients at risk, ladies and gentlemen, when specialities, not related to the treatment of pathological incidents, are called on to cover gaps. Moreover, the logic of prolongation, especially of subsidiary doctors, continues instead of becoming permanent, as has been announced for a long time, thereby keeping these people in work hostages. The government also continues to ignore the urgent need to integrate nurses and paramedical staff into the heavy and unhealthy professions. We as a Change Movement insist. We have tabled for the sixth time, ladies and gentlemen, for the sixth time - I repeat, for the sixth time - an amendment which the Government had repeatedly rejected to subject health, doctors and nurses and workers who are front-line in the fight against the coronary to heavy and unhealthy occupations, as well as the grant of emergency benefits retrospectively in February for as long as the pandemic lasts. As a minimum of gratitude for this rare work and titanium work in the battle for the pandemic, the Change Movement proposes to join the heavy and unhealthy professions with five specific issues. Firstly, all workers in the National Health System and the Armed Forces Health Units. Secondly, the crews of the EMCDDA ambulances. Thirdly, workers in the National System of Social Care and the Welfare and Protection and Welfare Units. Fourthly, workers in the social service structures and social programmes of the municipalities, the 'Help at Home' programmes, in the day-to-day care centres of the elderly and fifths, of workers in cleaning services receiving the risk allowance. Furthermore, for both the above categories of workers and for the members of the Civil Protection, Security and Armed Forces, it is proposed in the amendment that we have again tabled a monthly emergency allowance retrospectively since February and for as long as the pandemic and the exceptional situation has been caused. The government has the sole responsibility to accept the amendment to the Change Movement and to prove that it supports these workers in practice, without doubt, without communication and avoidance, otherwise, if it does not accept it, it may at last give a reason to tell us why this amendment is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement on the EPPY amendment is negative, it votes against. I should like to mention to the House the total contradiction that the legal world has. The Athens Bar Association has already mentioned the reasons why the amendment has problems and constitutionality. This amendment was suddenly tabled. The lawyers, wages and co-operating, under the instructions and orders of a member of the Legal Board of the State who heads the Department of Legal Services in violation of the Code of Law. The reports of the cooperating lawyers and their remuneration under the Code of Lawyers are not guaranteed. The former head of the Department of Legal Affairs is suspended by a decision of the Board of Directors of the EEAS and has been serving in this post since its establishment. In order to regulate provisions of the Department of Legal Affairs, only the President of the Legal Council of the State will speak with full exclusion of the Athens Bar Association, despite the fact that they provide services for dozens of lawyers. He objected to the Athens Bar Association's Board of Directors in this amendment, he has mentioned it to the Minister, and it would be nice not to continue on this matter specifically, or rather to withdraw this paragraph better, beyond the general refusal of the Change Movement, because it is a matter of legality and non-constitutionality. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] On the subject of the amendment by the Minister for Rural Development, we say it from the outset: we shall vote on it, but we must say two things. The ELGA and certainly his budget do not refer to the issues they are facing. He has dealt with the wider issues over the years. These excesses must be stressed where they come from. The sums, which will exceed the budget, where will they come from? I say this, ladies and gentlemen, why? Because in 2009 ELGA had a deficit of 4 billion. The 4 billion has been received by the PASOK government at that time and it was an ELGA deficit, and that is why, of course, the country went to the memoranda, from these deficits and previous deficits in the period 2004-2009 and not from these supposedly jokes, or rather the jokes that the Finance Minister told the committee yesterday. The Minister for Rural Development is missing to inform us today about the issue of the ELGA. These are specific issues. The maximum insurance of EUR 70,000 for each insured producer if he exceeds, will he be insured in these cases, or will the people who have suffered damage remain still? Some people have paid the premiums for 2020. Are the diseases, which have not paid premiums for 2020, to be compensated or, according to the data in the Regulation, to be rejected? It's a major issue. Here it is proposed, of course, that people get their money because they need it and they have a problem. The ELGA grant: We know that until the end of January it will be said that any amount will be allocated to the beneficiaries, but if no subsidies are granted, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018, 2019 and 2021 for the damages which will be done subsequently, ELGA will not be able to pay compensation to producers for the damage they have already done or possibly done. On that the Minister should have been present to answer. We say it to hear it and give it an answer. It's a big deal. We are pointing this out in the House today so that it does not come tomorrow and say anything else. The figures should also be specified on what they stand for. Because those amounts said for 2017, 2018, 2019 are about EUR 35 million for each year. When the 'January' reaches 105 million, where will these amounts be found and how will they be covered? I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the deadlines for the operation of agricultural cooperatives must be extended, yes, it must be done, but quite rightly, the Ministry of Rural Development by means of the fragmentary provisions and bills! Let the Ministry of Rural Development seriously deal with the problems of the rural world. He doesn't care. And here he'll always be forced to bring bills and ask for extensions. This is a third extension. You'll see he'll do another one. Unfortunately, they are not serious about rural development. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. I would like to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Regulating debts and providing a second chance'. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, Mr Vassilis Villiardos, has the floor, followed by Mr Salmas and Mr Akypis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin with our request for the withdrawal of ratification of the agreement with Kuwait, both from the Committee on Production and Trade, which is being discussed tomorrow and from the House, for the same reason that corresponding conventions have been withdrawn with Qatar and Azerbaijan. We cannot sign or ratify conventions that support Turkey, which is currently in addition to its invasions in the Aegean and its wars everywhere, seeks a next Armenian genocide. I would therefore ask the President of Parliament to ensure that, as with the two previous ones, he is withdrawn in advance. More generally, now, with regard to the draft laws of the Government, especially in the last few years, they are either translated directives of the European Union or a sum of laws enriched with a number of amendments, and it seems that the new name of the memorandum is 'European Union Directives'. Very often, and behind some really useful articles, problematic provisions are being invoked several times by the pandemic. For example, the draft law on "January" covered the list of Petsa, this on plastics and recycling the sale of "Larco", "Larco", "DEDO" and "DEPA, the draft law on combating laundry and the encryption of the destruction of banking confidentiality, bankruptcy, which has been discussed in committees recently, the total abolition of the protection of first home and much more. As far as today is concerned, it includes, on the one hand, a number of modifications to the Onassis Foundation's donation, on the other hand, various regulations on the health sector, because of the pandemic, or at least that is the justification or justification, as you want to say. These arrangements concern staff issues, recruitment and overtime, increased costs of medicines, prescriptions, contracted service providers, assignments, laboratory examinations, etc. They state, however, that the state continues to operate with its policy, known as the'seeing and doing', with measures and deadlines, which are constantly being shifted into the future. In any case, as usual, they are not quantified by the General Accounting Office of the State or by the bill many costs, such as Articles 3, 8, 10, 16, 18 and 19, which may be significant, for example, the cost of commissions, staff fees, tests in private laboratories and so on, as our rapporteur has analysed them all very well. Today's donation, now, is the update of the original 2018 and concerns additions to the "Onessios Cardioracy Center". This update does not change the main object of the original, but some details such as individual equipment. For example, ICU respirators are growing from eighteen to twenty - eight respirators. As an implementing entity, the company "ARIONA GREECA S.A.", which has undertaken the promotion projects of Greece with the “Repositioning Greece” programme. The donation relates to a new wing of the "Onasian Cardioperative Center", the equipment of the "Onasian National Transmissible Center", a helicoway, additional parking places and the configuration of the space. Its cost is EUR 70 million without VAT. Both this convention and the 'North' conventions have strict, strict business conditions, for example, tax exemptions for the purchases of equipment and work. The responsibility of the institution shall be limited only to the taking-up of the costs of the project. If a smaller amount is spent on the implementation of the donation, the institution shall not be obliged to pay the remaining amount nor to spend a higher amount. Finally, the institution will bear the cost of the usual maintenance of the donated equipment for five years after the definitive receipt of any mobile equipment included in the item. We will close with our reference to a single article in the 21st, because we were really worried about the arrangements for prescribing opioids and other substances as an amendment to Article 1 of d.d.148/2007. From what we understood - without being a doctor - the prescription relates to the fight against pain, other than neoplasmic diseases, in verses (d), (e) and (l) with the use of fentanyl, which is considered more lethal than heroin, while it is one of the main causes of the opioid crisis in the United States, as I will testify later in the Minutes. Of course, it is reported that it is prescribed by anesthesiologist for pain and not for psychological issues. However, we must know, regardless of this article, that there is a crisis of opioids in the United States from overregistration and dependency, as I will present in the Minutes. Their use increased due to the coronary, as 13% of adults in the United States stated that they started or increased opioid use to cope with coronary stress. We do not know, of course, how broad the sense of pain is and whether the dosage is appropriate for reasons of dependence and general health in Greece, but we believe that it should be particularly careful, without insisting, since, as I said at the beginning, I am not a doctor. We will continue with the fact that the government is trying to hide behind the COVID -19 its tactical failures and the inaccurate evidence it announces every time, both in health terms, such as the adequacy of the ICMs, the means of public transport and the checks on incoming cases, as well as in economic terms, in terms of budgetary and other measures, where, as we have pointed out many times and a little recently, its disastrous policy of'seeing and doing', in this case, in the sense that companies could not plan their actions, resulting in an even greater recession in the third quarter compared with the other countries of the European Union. We hope that the Minister will testify in the nine months, as he put forward in the six months, so that we can really compare how Greece went in relation to the other European countries. However, in April we anticipated an annual fall in GDP of 10% and a similar deficit. In any case, it has now been documented that the initial economic successes of the government were short-term, while above all human life, behind which it covered its financial failures that had already begun since 2019, since the fall of growth in the fourth quarter at 1%, it resulted in the opening of tourism without sufficient tests and with full airplanes, unfortunately even from countries with a high number of cases, under the pressure of airlines and our partners, according to the statements made by Mrs Bakoyannis that we have tabled in the minutes of the budget debate. They're not ours, Mrs. Bakoyannis said so. These are the same partners who have destroyed both the health system and the economy of Greece with their memoranda, noting that the rise in cases is attributed to tourism and the seventh evaluation of the European Union, not only by us or by Mrs Bakoyannis, but also by the European Union itself in its seventh evaluation. The government failed to increase GDP to 4% in 2019, as it had promised in the run-up to the mid-term, not in 2020 nor, of course, succeeded in 2020, rendering it conveniently into the pandemic. The government has failed in general, while trying to hide its failures behind the low loan rates, as we heard just now from the Minister of Finance, when from 8.9 trillions of European bonds, 6 trillions are negotiating at negative interest rates. Instead of understanding that what matters is the real interest rate, which is the total of the nominal rate plus deflation, which was launched in September at 2.3%, continues to project the nominal interest rate, noting, for example, that Greece's real interest rate today is about 3.55% while Turkey is about half of a country like us of the European Union, despite the huge financial problems Turkey has. The government has failed to deal effectively with COVID -19 locking the economy, despite the low cases and without asking anyone, then uncontrollably opening the border to tourism, and thus turning our islands into over-transmission. The government has failed to provide tourism, despite Santorini's feast and its statements on the existence of a safe plan, since our tourism revenues will not even reach EUR 3.5 billion. As far as digitalisation is concerned, it fails to understand that this is how large enterprises are favoured by foreign experience, while small and medium-sized enterprises from which Greece depends suffocate and close one after another. The government has failed in the final state, since despite the increased recruitment and expansion of the public sector, a no-liberal feature, the State's ineffective functioning and problematic legislation continue. The government failed to protect the first residence of the Greeks by depositing an actual bankruptcy law, which abolishes it by means of unconstitutional and concise procedures. It is a crime to adopt such a law - a memorandum in a bankrupt country, that is, at the worst possible time. The Government has failed in national matters by means of an untimely EEZ communication, with its later partial delimitation, with the "fresh" of natural gas reserves surveys south of Crete, with the energy dependency of the country which promotes by selling our energy companies, as well as the networks, with its attitude towards Turkey and so on. The government has also failed in migratory with the delayed and under pressure of its progress in lukewarm response to our islands that are methodically populated by Turkey, while transporting the unfortunate illegal immigrants within the country to permanent structures, burdening the expenditure on the budget with EUR 405 million plus EUR 200 million from the Public Investment Programme against just EUR 515 million for armaments, as well as creating dangerous destabilising chambers for the defence and security of the country. The worst thing is that she tries to cover her mistakes with the help of the media, which she supports with the successive Pecha lists, always hidden in the bills supposedly to inform citizens in relation to pandemic. Our view is that what makes it beneficial in the short term, but not for much longer. One may make fun of many for a long time, but under no circumstances any one and forever. What we care about, however, is not whether they benefit or damage the government's mistakes and its omissions, but what all this means to Greece and to the Greeks, who, if we do not change course immediately, will experience much more bad conditions than the already painful ones in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Villard. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Marios Salmas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I wanted to take the floor to make two points in this draft law. The first point relates to the pharmaceutical policy pursued by the Government. I would like to stress, because I have seen a provision to increase the limits of the closed budget for pharmaceutical expenditure, that for many years we have fought to save money for the insurance funds and the EEAS, the pharmaceutical expenditure will be determined at levels that would be of interest to the EEAS and acceptable to the providers. Pressure has always been by the pharmaceuticals to raise the limits, which I see in this draft law. And good - if you want - to increase the limits of the closed budget following Mr Xanthos's policy - I say this because he is here - which established a price list on 31 December each year so that medicines are not substantially reclassified. I would like to point out this and stress that it is not followed for other providers, and in conjunction with the provision of the dosing facility to give the clawback by the pharmaceutical colonies in particular, I would like to say that it is a favor, because you did not do that for diagnostics for clinics, at the same time as we do not follow the legal procedure in the EEAS. What do I mean by that? I told you, Minister, and you and the Minister - who is not here now - that he was set up under the SYRIZA government, by Ministerial decision of Mr Polakis at the time, an unjust - not in my judgment, but also by an appeal decision now - the establishment of a clawback, i.e. a return for importers and manufacturers of orthopaedic aids. It is unprecedented that clawback does not enter into the providers that are contracted with the EEAS, where they have contract and have the profit and are paid by you and that importers that have nothing to do with you, do not know you, have an economic transaction with you, pay clawback, when product prices are not priced and the profit rate in the product distribution chain is not valued. It's unprecedented. He was annulled by an appeal order. You'll be accountable if this continues and canceled in S.H.E. You will be accountable for all these sums that importers will not pay, which they will do well not to pay because the Poliaki ministerial decision is wrong, which you are still applying today. You will also be accountable for the fact that you are not legislating properly and that you are not changing this distorted ministerial decision based on a law that is again distorted. You know, when Mr. Loverdos made the EPPY with a lot of blood and effort and a lot of conflicts, the pharmacists had a picture of him, because I see him as I am referring to him, in order to negotiate profit rates and lower the limit of the closed budget. And when I was the first Minister I applied after Loverdos legislation, EOPY 1-7-2012 came to me. When we put the clawback on, we didn't put it to shut down operations. We put it because the agency couldn't get the final result it wanted to melt by measures. What was that? To be provided to all insured persons a product, but to be able to pay something specific. This may be accepted by the market, but when clawback does not exceed profitability. Here importers and owners of the orthopaedics have declared costs - revenues of 200,000 euros, for example, and the clawback comes over the retail price of 500,000 euros. It's unthinkable. I told you, Mr. Undersecretary. You have made a reference to the so-called ‘pharmaceuticals’. That is, because pharmacists are now selling orthopaedic strollers, so as not to hurt the pharmacists, importers and manufacturers, traditional operators, so as not to hurt the president of the pharmaceutical club that had opened in Mytilini a store with orthopaedics next to the pharmacy. That is not the case, Minister. We didn't work for years and with blood at home to set up the EPPY to do this. You need to fix it. One more amendment you have on the EEA. It is your right to define a change in the method of administration of the EEAS. That's what I'd say any government and it was upstairs. Obviously this is to change the President of the EEA, Mr Plaiannakos. I'd rather there'd be documentation because he doesn't do this job. We are in a country that we have learned from the past, and everyone should leave when they do not do their job well, as Mr Marcus did, and you have changed it correctly. But we need to explain why even if Mr. Plaiannakos does not do his job well. Also, I see an eight-year term for some members of the EEA Board of Directors, for Leontopoulos. There's no one else. In two years, it's going to be Sabanis. This is done in conjunction with the abolition of the independent legal office, that is to say, that Dimitra Ligure does not have competence. Listen, we made the organization with these people. They never totally agreed with us. We got their opinion, but it was a synthesis. There was the legal adviser of the state, who has a difficulty at one time in giving brave opinions, but the legal department is something that did not prevent the agency from going through time. It has helped to deal with difficult issues. And I would ask you to take note of the letter sent to you by the Athens Bar Association on a number of issues. I come too, because I told you that we have a sensitivity to this organization that we started and set up, to tell you at least not to become unjustified acts that degrade people who worked on the EEA. You think the representative of CSCE will not have an eight-year term. What do you mind? There may be ministers here who might have ten years. Do you mind the member of the EEAS Board of Directors if the ESEMA appoints him for a second or third term? So that is not something that is consistent with our philosophy and our ideology. It must be explained and documented everything we do. With these few points I would like to thank you, and I want you to take these comments very seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr Salma, particularly for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds, for the reference to my face by the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u98	Mr Marku, you have the floor for a minute for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u99	That's why the government changed me. And I did not do it well because I cost the ERCF the orthopaedic intervention operation costed by the previous ones, which benefited Mr Salma, who was the only one who did it and the cost of EUR 800 in the ERCH, we cost it to EUR 250. In fact, I did not do my job well, and that led Mr Salma to take me on the eve of the ERC Plenary at 12 and half in the evening on the phone and threaten me. New Democracy really did well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Salma, you have a minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u101	On the question of the costing that Mr Marcus has said he has ordered the government to do, from the Ministry of Health's leadership, to do so, as he said, and he had no agreement on it. Retrospectively with the price he's costed it, it's not for consideration, so he canceled it and served all the interests of private clinics that are now being made. Thirdly, this case was brought to the file and all that SYRIZA did was a mess with Mr. Marcos' involvement. And fourth and last, Mr Marcos was lying in the Minutes that he had an opinion paper, an opinion on this matter which he never had. And I'm telling him today from the Stepma that he's going to the courts about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u102	Please! It's over now! There's nothing to write about than you're saying! Mr Akipas from New Democracy has the floor, and then I will give the Minister Digalakis the floor to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to refer to the fundamental amendment to today's bill tabled by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. This amendment makes it possible, among other things, to compensate farmers who have been affected by the 'Janus' disaster at 100% of the insured value of their plant and animal capital and allows payment of advances in respect of the compensation they are entitled to. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now clear and I think it is indisputable even from the opposition parties that this government is responding to any of the crises which the Greek society has been facing so far with speed and efficiency. With the same reflexes, with the same sense of responsibility, we face the refugee issue, the crisis in Greek-Turkish relations and, of course, the pandemic of the new krone and its consequences for our society and our economy. Moving on, the Joint Benefit Foundation "Alexandros Onassis" has effectively supported and best supports public health in Greece, and contributes to the creation of the necessary infrastructure, as well as to improving the quality of the services provided to Greek citizens. That is precisely what is happening today where our country is going through an unprecedented health crisis. Before, then, I refer to the current draft law and its importance to public health, you will allow me to emphasise the fundamental importance and decisive role that the private initiative has played in tackling the health crisis. This period has shown the importance of the private sector's contribution to the strengthening of public health. We saw that through important donations hundreds of intensive beds opened and increased care throughout the country. It has made it possible to carry out training courses for the staff of the IFs. The possibility of competent sanitary bodies carrying out mass tests for the diagnosis of the new coron. Tens of molecular analysis systems for the new disease have been made possible, which significantly reduces diagnosis time and much more. All this, in combination with the direct reaction of the government and the decisive adoption of the necessary measures, has led Greece to remain an example in Europe as regards the treatment of COVID -19. But the health crisis that we are facing is a crisis that is constantly evolving. New data, new needs, new factors that we need to take into account in order to ensure the health and safety of Greek citizens. In this context, bills such as current in the provisions which ensure the effective functioning of public and private health services and the overall strengthening of the National Health System come to the House. In particular, this bill amends the donation contract between the Greek State and the “Onasium” of the Cardiff Center, which will reach 70m euros and will allow, among other things, the full equipment of the Cardiff Center, the reconstruction of rooms and spaces of the existing building, the establishment and equipment of the “Onasium National Transmissible Center” and, of course, the construction of a modern and fully renewed Paediatric Clinic of the Children's Association, specialising in cardinal and cardiovascular surgery. Therefore, this donation is not only for the "child League", but also for other important work that is very important either in the structure of the building or in modern medical and scientific equipment. However, today's bill also contains urgent arrangements to address the risk of CVID -19 spreading, as well as other provisions aimed at substantially strengthening the National Health System. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is fully aware of the crisis in health that we are facing, and that is why we are moving quickly through the current draft law on the establishment and notice of five hundred organic posts of specialist doctors in the ERC for intensive treatment units, three hundred specialists in intensive hospitalisation, since we know that to be able to work in an intensive care unit after specialisation it must be specified. In addition, we move on to the establishment and notice of a thousand organic positions of nurses from which hundreds of them are physical therapists. At the same time, we should stress that the government has already provided and introduced the provision for recruitment of additional medical care and other auxiliary staff up to 31 December 2020 for up to four months, since there is still a direct risk of the occurrence and spread of the coronary. It is also important to say that this draft law provides for the possibility of extending all active contracts of auxiliary medical and nursing staff and all other staff of the hospitals of the National Health System until 31 October 2020. Finally, on the basis of my many years experience with the National Health System, I can confidently say that Greek public health has excellent scientists, doctors and nursing staff working zealously and consciously in duty. The health crisis, which we are experiencing, found public health weakened, after a ten-year financial crisis mainly at equipment level. However, the government has managed to ensure the best possible conditions of care for patients and significantly improve the level of medical services. In this effort, it was noteworthy to help the public institutions, such as the "Alexandros Onassis" Foundation. It is therefore extremely pleasant and hopeful that we are here today to discuss a donation, as well as a set of arrangements that will enhance the quality of health services to Greek citizens. Especially at the moment, the state with the help and significant contribution of the public institutions should ensure that all Greek citizens are and feel safe. I would also like to mention Amendment 525 which was accepted by the Ministry concerning the three hospitals in Zakynthos, Kefalonia and Lefkada, which, as you know, were barren and problematic in the regions of the second zone. This amendment forms part of the 1st zone. We all know that island regions are unfortunately not eligible by the majority of doctors, due to the problems we face, because they are remote from urban centres. At the same time, insularity creates problems in terms of travel. They are also islands threatened by earthquakes, natural disasters. So you realise that it takes motivation to succeed in the possible turnout of doctors. I think that we are giving some motive to this amendment. Perhaps, Minister, in the future, we will be able to give even more, so that the islands can also have adequate doctors, because you know that we are finding huge problems as far as urban and large hospitals are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr Apepi, and respect for the time. Mr Digalakis has the floor for three minutes to develop the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it concerns Article 7 of the first chapter of the amendment: 'Constitutions to deal with the dispersion of the coronary'. Our universities this semester open carefully. We have a double objective, mainly to safeguard the health of students and university staff, but at the same time we want students to return to universities in a safe way. For this reason, lectures with a large number of students will not be made in a physical presence, they will be made remotely, but lectures with a smaller number of students, workshops, clinical exercises will be conducted in a natural presence. In order to strengthen universities, because as we understand the lectures in small groups, or at the same time to create schools for better assimilation of matter in small groups, along with the teaching of theory, it requires additional resources, teaching resources in universities, which must be strengthened to enable them to cope with this increased burden, so we have chosen for this purpose to use the institution of grants, that is, postgraduate students, candidates for teaching staff, the teachers of HEIs, by providing training in small student groups. I should like to say here that it is an institution used in good universities abroad, in Europe, in North America and on this occasion we bring it to Greece. We therefore want to strengthen the universities, to have postgraduate students and candidate doctorates who will do this work and, at the same time, to achieve a double objective: on the one hand, we support teaching on the other hand, postgraduate students and candidate doctors are financially strengthened in the pandemic. These are two thousand postgraduate students and candidates for doctoral treatment, which will be covered through ESDP money. And the reason behind the amendment is that the institutional framework at the moment is fragmentary, there are already regulations from universities, or provisions covering only the candidates, and that is why, for legal certainty, the amendment comes in order to regulate the institutional framework and to grant these grants to postgraduate students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u106	Mr Baran Bourhan has the floor now from the Change Movement. I shall then make a proposal to this House, in view of the fact that they have not yet spoken to ministers, parliamentary representatives and we have many speakers, to make six minutes of time, of course with a tolerance of seven. We're not interrupting anyone. Just to move fast. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are already in the second wave of pandemic, and we are all aware that the National Health System is under great pressure from the growing coronary cases that one succeeds. It's not my intention to tire you long. I'm coming directly into this bill. We in the Change Movement welcome this donation, as, in the midst of the huge economic crisis and pandemic that we are experiencing, the institution's contribution is vital. You also know very well that the infrastructure and operation of many hospitals across the region are no longer worthy of the new medical challenges and incidents. However, one can see that the government once again, through the cloak of this bill, is trying to incorporate various other provisions without any coherence between them, seeking a rough cover for needs and customers' interests. What each intelligent person understands at the moment is that you like to waste your powers by bringing to the vote more important issues to major health problems, forgetting that the situation because of the coronary has again begun to be waived outside limits and sanitary endurances. I will stand as a psychiatrist and a member of the Subcommittee on Drugs in Article 6 of this legislation dealing with the sensitive area of drug treatment. In this provision, our concern is on the ground. There must indeed be an organised plan to deal with this scourge. However, it is understood, by reading the article, that the Network for the Prevention of Obligations and Promotion of Psychosocial Health for its representation in the Narcotics Management Committee is now represented by a member, proposed by the association of workers in the prevention centres and not by a coordinating committee, as formulated in L.4131/2013. Why the reduction of these members? Is there any intention of the government to abolish this network? And what will be the criteria for evaluating the work of the committee after a certain period of time? Here we are, and we will be to let us know. After all, Minister, we know very well about the drugs problem. We experience it on a daily basis. It is a profitable business at the expense of human life and dignity. Will you dare as a government to deal more effectively with the root of evil, i.e. highlighting what is known to all traders and traffickers? Do not forget that users are the victims of these circuits. There is a need for legislative arrangements aimed at preventing and combating the problem. We mental health scientists experience on a daily basis the law gaps which in some cases restrict us to providing proper treatment for dependent people. If you manage to professionally restore all these people, given the current unemployment and integrate them into society, then we will applaud you. At this point I will be a little standing in my area of Xanthi and especially in the mountainous areas of the prefecture where drugs are riding. In view of the increased number of dependent people, the presence of the OKANA in my area is necessary. Today all the incidents of our prefecture are served by the surrounding prefectures with large waiting lists and increased travel costs for patients. Also, at the Xanthi Hospital we have a Psychiatric Clinic which, since the day the hospital was founded, has been unexploited since there is a shortage of medical personnel, while it can well accommodate, apart from other psychiatric incidents, and dependent individuals. Therefore, instead of bringing similar and scorpions to such legislation, I hope and hope you will bend your head to the core of every problem that we face as a society and that you will, in fact, get the knife to the bone, do this more to find drastic measures and outlets for the people in need. We, as a Change Movement, expect from you self-criticism and production of real and not sterile politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u109	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, I ask for the floor for one or two minutes on what Mr Plois just said and the one-off retention of the wages of the New Democracy colleagues to be paid in the account opened by Parliament for the treatment of COVID -19. I interrupted him, but I didn't hear it. SYRIZA had taken the initiative, and this is well known to give part of the parliamentary compensation for the strengthening of the Kastoria Hospital. You remember that Kastoria Hospital was one of the first to be hurt. I have here the thank you for replying from 3 September 2020, which I would like to present. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, if you do not remember, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, not only in the current parliamentary term, but since 2012, on a monthly basis, Members have given him part of the parliamentary compensation and that goes to solidarity structures. That's to put some things in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u111	With the consent of this House, we will make the speaking time six minutes, as we have said, with tolerance, of course, so that the time is exhausted. Thank you very much. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I'm usually a lacquer. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today this bill at the beginning of the second wave of the coronary pandemic and instead of mistakes, omissions, successes in managing the first wave to have been a lesson in the government, we see that you are moving towards a logic of contradictions and to a logic of'seeing and doing'. In order to become more specific, we have constantly told you about the need to support primary health structures, the local health units, that is, which pulled and draw the large load. Until now, we have seen no substantial support for them. We have constantly recommended by the relevant department and committees that more rapid tests be introduced so that we can detect case areas. So what's going on? Accidents are discovered. You are in front of situations that have already evolved rather than prevented. And what concerns us most is that by coming winter, on the one hand and on the other hand, starting work that requires more workers' hands will be found with whole areas that arrive in situations that are no longer manageable. And when I say managers, I mean not only health, but also socially and economically naturally. About the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, I from this position again wish to thank the foundation, which, based on the memorandum of cooperation with the Greek State from 21-3-2018, has included the creation of a new wing of Sparta Hospital. You've been late for nine months and after two questions here in the House to place administration at Sparta Hospital. It finally happened a while ago. So the new administration started the process from where it stopped. We hope that at the end of the process we will have a modern hospital, a full hospital, which will unload the space to the neighbouring hospitals or to the centre and have both an intensive care unit, and diagnostic equipment and centres, especially for mastography, which is unfortunately increasingly employing the population. I would like to say the following on the amendment from the Ministry of Rural Development. In fact, the amendment seeks to solve a number of problems that we have mentioned from the outset as malfunctions. It's been a whole month since, and people really expect to find solutions. But it's late, you're operating with too late reflexes. In the previous bill in which there were some solutions for the general population there was no proposal for farmers. However, this amendment is coming. You're talking about staff. The main problem at the time of the ELGA is that experienced executives are lost, who are serving for up to a decade and you have no response for them. The Communist Party of Greece has tabled an amendment which we politically can say is in the right direction. But you have the responsibility of finding a solution. We cannot, at this time, have an increased burden of assessment to be carried out by the agency. Secondly, since the country is now outside the memoranda and has the opportunity with the 37 billion-dollar to meet the needs that really exist - and I am referring to Article 2 of the amendment - why do you only give ELGA what is envisaged for the years 19 and 18? You have to do so - and here is your responsibility - for all years since 2011 when the revision of the regulation of this kind has been the result of the public's obligation to cover the annual grant. Now you can do it and you must do it, because the needs of the organization are increased and in two years the problem is not solved. As regards the issues with farmers, which you are trying to solve, you are creating two-speed farmers. They are the farmers who were on the 'January' and have indeed suffered the greatest damage and are waiting for compensation. But we also have other cases that a few days ago before the 'January' or even this morning in Heraklion have similar issues. Aren't you going to legislate about them? Does the beneficial provisions which come and the issues that are resolved with this amendment not apply? So why don't you legislate as a whole? One more thing, since 1988 there has been the basic regulation on the insurance of the ELGA. Started a process after 1988 by the SYRIZA Government, you did not complete this process. Are you going to re-establish a committee to study this issue as usual? Ladies and gentlemen, you must legislate hand in hand, legislate in the leg and legislate with a logic of'seeing and doing'. Looking at the amendment you tabled, one understands that the amendment is greater than the entire bill. It's not that right legacy. This is not the state that you would have imagined yourself. Don't make fun of the world. It's not worth it in Greek society. It is a pity for the Greek citizens what is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Arachovitis. Mr Kostas Maravegias has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, the House ratifys the amendment of the donation contract of the "Onasis" Foundation with the Greek State and it is about modernising the existing equipment of the "Onasian Cardiff Center", as well as the supply of equipment for the new ward of the Paediatric Heart Surgery and the National Transplant Centre, important infrastructure projects of the public health system reminding us that this is not necessarily the same as the State. As there is and must be supported by the State, there is also the private initiative that cooperates and complements the public services, but also the social sector that covers the gaps of the first two. The new donation of the Onassis Foundation for the extension of the homonymous Cardiff Centre is the continuation of a tradition of national co-operation, a lasting offer in Greece which now brings the opening of these critical public health structures even closer together. Mr President, the provisions of the draft law relating to measures to deal with the coronary include substantial extensions of major fixed-term arrangements. I would include Article 17 on the short-term extension of staff contracts to the EGE, Article 20 on the extension by October of 2021 of the term of office of ASs serving in the RIS, the EERC, the EEAS, to university and military hospitals, as well as Article 23 on the extension of the validity of the prescriptions of the chronicly ill by December 2020. On this point we must recognise the great success of our country, which is taking the lead in the use of Community funds to tackle COVID -19. In particular, our country comes first among the Member States of the European Union in the number of social cohesion aid measures, as in absolute numbers the beneficiaries in Greece exceeded four hundred thousand. I am referring to measures which have in practice proved particularly effective in the battle we are currently fighting against the coronary. Minister, standing in Article 11 and in the thousands of hirings of sanitary specialists who will serve the intensive care units of the country, I feel the need to give an answer to our colleagues in Officerial Response, which is about the objections to public health risks, as the government has said, Mr Xanthos, from an allegedly unvantaged private sector. The reply, ladies and gentlemen, gives itself the Journal of the Government, which I read to you in Article 3, that 'these beds will be available exclusively to meet the needs of the population from the National Health System. At the end of the crisis, these IF beds are obliged to undergo a fitness check to be maintained, otherwise they will be automatically abolished. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So if they get to use these beds it means that the conditions are already war conditions. Public health is already in serious danger and there is a risk of finding people who need intensive hospitalization outside intensive care units. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, they must go beyond their limits, since the system itself has already gone beyond them. So what proportions of patients - nurses would we talk about in this case? These are these arguments, unfortunately, that you are putting forward a multiplier reproduction of obsessed and ideology about the bad private sector. Let's see when you realize that reality has left you out and the partnerships are bringing the best results, as it seems from donation to the first part of the bill that the Greek Parliament today validates for the benefit of the public interest. Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the amendment to our farmers. In particular, for Thessaly, which was very hard hit by "January" the simplification of the procedures of the ELGA and the increase in the threshold of the compensation granted to 100% of the value come to alleviate the thousands of farmers and farmers. At the same time, the rapid advance of a large part of ELGA compensation will give farmers and my own constituency of Magnesia, who have already faced difficulties because of other natural disasters, which have hit our prefecture in the past six months. However, it is equally important that the Government intervenes to compensate the companies affected by the 'January' as a whole. So now industries, craft industries, shops and farms can be subsidised by the state for a large number of material damages due to natural disasters, such as the one we had unfortunately very recently in Thessaly. I close with perhaps the most important intervention of this bill, Article 26 with the additional disposal by the Public Investment Programme of more than EUR 1.5 billion for the protection of public health from the coronary. This budget comes to increase the existing appropriations in the state budget, which is now more than 9.5 billion. This is a huge social programme which offers additional resources on a scale that has never been mentioned before. It is therefore important to further specialise in the allocation of the above funds, as well as the timetable for their absorption. This initiative alone represents a revolutionary change in how the state sees the protection of public health itself. So because it is essentially a new model of social policy, I think it is time for the opposition misery to be stopped and to discuss here how we can use this great opportunity for the public health system together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Kotsiras from New Democracy, and then Mr Kegeroglu will speak from the Change Movement. Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the important bill, which brings the Ministry of Health to a vote, in my view, at a very difficult, particularly serious time for our country to deal with the coronary, but the next day an optimistic picture of our country and the protection of the National Health System, the next day from a donation that took place by the Greek Parliament and is the fifty new beds in an intensive care unit at the Hospital of Salvation. This is a deposit that will stay next day for the country and the National Health System. It's obviously a weapon in the battle we're giving to treating the coronary. I personally hope that not one of our fellow citizens need to be hospitalized in these units, but because the winter's course is difficult, certainly actions as they strengthen the credibility of the political system and Parliament. In my opinion, the presence of all the representatives of the parties yesterday in the process of receiving these beds was important, symbolic and essential. I would like this to apply from all sides, because it is a guarantee for the health system, the political system and Parliament that obviously represents the Greek society. Today's bill, in the same context, in the context of strengthening the National Health System is indeed another little bit, one step so that we can make the next day of the management of the coronary easier for society and the citizens. The part of the donation made by the mutually beneficial Foundation "Alexandros S. Onassis" is important, because there will now be a "Children's Society" on substance and shows in practice that cooperation in the public and private sectors, on critical issues, concerning public health, can only be for the benefit of citizens. Its beginning from 2018, as has been mentioned, is important because it shows the continuity of the state in matters relating to public health, and that is what we all need to think about at all times. Also very important in my view is the provision for the National Transplant Organisation, because transplants have enormous medical significance, huge symbolic, as well as enormous social significance. They're giving life. Our country must take steps towards modernising the transplant system, come closer to the pan-European average and be able to operate by creating a culture of organ donation from all, who may not know when their lives will be at stake, but they are the ones who can give life to a fellow citizen in the future. That is why culture culture and support for everything that has to do with the transplantation system in our country is in the rational and truly social direction. We're on the subject of intensive beds. The government has made a huge effort. It has managed in very critical conditions to double almost the beds that were in existence and to be able today to have close to the thousands of beds that can accommodate our fellow citizens who will need the support of such thorough and serious health care. We were back as a country and the coronary possibly operated as a special acceleration in order to be able to strengthen the National Health System, to be able to emphasise what the health system really must represent, that is, the support of our weakest fellow citizen. At this point it is important and the support of the state, state, the leadership of the Ministry of Health, the Prime Minister himself, who has repeatedly noted the importance of strengthening the national health system and the private sector, which, where necessary, has been able to assist. At that time we have been able to see a visa, which aims to tackle this global, very difficult situation in the best possible way. In the same context, more doctors, nurses, physico-therapists, as provided for in the bill, with an emphasis on intensive, emphasising this critical sector in order to tackle the current situation, but also in the critical sector for the next day, for the legacy that will leave the National Health System at the very, very difficult time that we are experiencing. Also, the possibility of extending the active contracts of the subsidiary medical and nursing staff of all kinds, within the framework of the National Health System is now strengthening, but it also gives a trigger for the next day, so that we can have more serious scientific hands of work, because - as we do - our doctors and nurses, the medical staff, the human material is the fight for the front line, and this must be supported. They also regulate issues with a significant social dimension, such as the re-issuance of prescriptions that have a long time for the medicines of the electronic prescription system, the possibility of adjusting opioids and other substances, which are for a sensitive category of our fellow citizens very important, for their everyday lives. It is an important addition to this provision. I conclude, Mr President, because I know that I had started talking before the time began, so I do not want to eat another colleague's time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u117	You have to bear in mind that I have been late to start your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I'm finishing up like I started. This picture that we have seen yesterday, namely Parliament's support for a major effort to deal with the coronary with intensive care beds, must be guided by the future, must be guided by addressing this difficult period of time. In this process there are no micro-party controversies because we have a difficult winter ahead of us. The government is doing everything possible. It has so far been exemplary to this difficult juncture. It has been dealt with in a way that has been done in many countries in the world and in the European Union, and I believe that we must all help, each one of its responsibility, so that we can cope smoothly with the difficult winter that we have before us. And if we do that, I'm sure we'll make it and society will stand up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Next speaker, Mr. Kegeroglou from the Change Movement and prepare Mr.Efstratios Simopoulos from New Democracy. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stakoras, with his present position in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, formally acceded to SYRIZA's opinion that the memoranda brought the crisis. I would have liked to have been here to answer a question from now on. Mr Stavoura, the derailment of the public finances 2004-2009 that sparked the crisis, did it have anything to do with the memorials that came then as an undeniable need? Could anyone, of course, support this even from New Democracy, which had nothing to do with the decisions, but do you, the sole manager of the second memorandum, now tell us, in the opinion of SYRIZA that the memoranda was here while there was a laster? What kind of new view is that? And you and the Prime Minister, who was your co-manager in the second memorandum from the post of Minister of Administrative Reform. To make it simpler, Mr Stakoura, in 2009 New Democracy handed us a disbuilt ELGA, unable to deal with the problem of compensation and with a huge deficit of 4 billion. We proceeded with modernization, moved on to the reform of the ELGA in 2010. We've set up the huge debt. And you think that was the result of a virtual crisis or the real one caused by New Democracy 2004-2009? Gather around, Mr. Stakoura. And if you don't get together, the Greek people will collect you and your government. Because despite the communication bombardment and your "pads", the problem in society has a lot to do. The problems one after another come to recall that, apart from the well-being of the numbers at the top and the communication initiatives, there is a real life and people are in a difficult situation. So make sure, Mr. Stakoura, that ELGA has an economic opportunity to cover all the damages that have come with 'January' and other extreme weather phenomena and, of course, those that come from here and leave these unprecedented views. The bill we are discussing, however, confirms that the government has now become addicted to bad legislation. You have not simply thrown 'usable' legislation on good legislation, but on 'cutter'. The big words, the fine words, both of the Prime Minister and Professor Gerapetritis in the first bill that this government brought out are sounding in our ears as far away, since in practice it turns out that others are doing. The Change Movement has clarified its position in relation to the subject of the bill. We have proposed the introduction of a permanent, transparent and independent mechanism, which, with specific reliable and clear rules, will make best use of donations to prevent and promote public health. We are therefore in favour of accepting donations and making better use of them, but not of their work and not of joining government toys on health. The government, with some individual provisions or in general other interventions, has made it possible to make progress with what it had in mind - undergroundly passes the marginalization and decline of public health services, public structures and their substitution by the private sector. That's all we're opposed to. We are, however, in agreement - and we have a plan - on the important and critical participation of the private sector in the context of the provision of public health or of the public health system, on the basis of concrete and clear rules. Ladies and gentlemen, for us the National Health System is our identity. So it is not meant to have a different view today from supporting the regeneration of the National Health System. The Change Movement, on the occasion of 3 September, has drawn up an integrated proposal, which we are presenting above all to the Government, in order to implement, if it wants, specific policies, which will make good use of the enormous economic potential that our country needs today, both from the Recovery Fund and from the new NSRF. I shall conclude, Mr President, by referring to two amendments which we have tabled. Last week in the amendment we tabled to deal with the consequences of the abolition by the Criminal Code of the possibility for the court to deprive the political rights of the Golden Dawn, and from us and other parties, Mr Tsiaras came in and answered why he did not accept the amendments. So today we are calling for the official position of the government - and let it not be hidden - on the two amendments which we are tabling: For the first, regarding the integration into heavy and unhealthy health care of all health workers, the National Health System and the Social Welfare System and the EMCDDA and all structures in the health provision system and in general health services. We want a clear answer, because you don't accept it. This is the sixth time, if I'm not deceived, where this question is being tabled. Not just applause. You can give us an answer on the amendment. For the second amendment, which deals with the self-taxation of the newspapers of doctors in public hospitals and, more generally, the health facilities, health centres, etc., which solves a major problem today, since the on-calls they are making are far more than they would have done if there were hospitals and health centres and lead to the rate of taxation for these people. On the one hand, the public and society tells them that "we need you to do on the other" and on the other hand, the tax system comes in and with these extra on-calls it removes their income, even from normal. We therefore want an answer to these two amendments. I'm finishing by saying we're in front of a new pandemic outbreak. The signs are not good and, above all, the signs are not good for the way the government is trying to cope with this outbreak of the pandemic. We need a revision of the mechanism as a whole that the government is moving. I have proposed to the Minister to work out the need to set up a new system with a national coordinator, which will really make use of all the possibilities that the country has, by blocking the procedure for dealing with the coronary and defending public health from any governmental or party choices and pursuits. And that will be an offer in the country and an offer in public health. Otherwise, what's coming will be your sole responsibility. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Triantafyllidis Alexandros will take the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when action in any field can be captured in figures then I believe that things are relatively easy, which is not understood above all by the Qualified Opposition. There are the figures from how the government handled the coronary issue. It is a number which, of course, must be compared with the corresponding figures, the corresponding figures, from foreign countries, particularly Europe, with much more advanced health systems. The government has managed to manage the coronary. A second point which I have to raise is the opposition effort, in my opinion, legitimate to raise some issues in an attempt to make opposition. That's her role. A major issue he raised was the notorious issue with intensive care units and their failure to order by the government. Of course, as I have said the word "request, expropriation, statification", are words that you like. It has, however, been demonstrated by the debate in the committee that if the IFs were to be ordered, we would still have to pay today, even now, without needing the IFs, money in the private sector, to the clinical authorities. Because you can't have a liberal system and demand as in any other form. I now come to this bill. I shall refer to an amendment, Mr Minister, that I tabled, which you have basically accepted. It concerns the extension of the term of office of members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of pharmaceutical cooperatives. Of course, while I have proposed four months, you did it two by 28 February. I hope that you will never again have to bring in a corresponding arrangement which will proceed with a new extension. Also, there are in this bill and some other articles that I think are helping the private sector, not in contrast to the public sector. Small units of health, such as daily care centres, can now perform intraocular injections. It is a move, in my opinion, in the right direction. Of course, what I absolutely believe is that there must be cooperation between the private sector and the public sector. Be careful, though. Social health will continue to exist in the way that there is, of course, a better service to the citizens. It does not mean cooperation and a PPP private and public sector that it will remove the possibility for citizens to have free health and access, which in fact one way or another, over time, do not have absolutely today. And since I am talking about these matters, I would like to disagree with a majority colleague who called for clawback on certain special pharmaceutical products to be paid for by pharmacists and not importers. Pharmacies throughout Greece are cells of social solidarity. As our economy is structured, in every neighborhood there is the pharmacist, the baker and the butcher. In particular, the first plays an extremely important role and the current legislation on these special medicinal products must continue. I now come to the issue of the donations of the Niarcha Foundation. From this Step I rarely say congratulations. I will be content with a great thank you even for Thessaloniki. The pediatric surgery is already on the stools at the Fillar. We also have the thirty ICUs already delivered to the Hippocrates.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u123	We started it. Say the SYRIZA government started it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u124	You are right both colleagues from Thessaloniki that the previous government started it. I, too, have had an institutional position and the government does not devaluate the previous efforts and what we find is going on with it. Also, Minister, I consider it very important that the extension of the Haematological Clinic to the Papanikolaou, a clinic that will be a model, which we need, is ready, and from what I know there is a government decision. It's the building of genes and cell therapies. Finally, I would also remind you that we have two huge untapped sources, which depend on infrastructure from the Ministry of Health. They're the notorious CYKETES. It is thirty a CYKEME throughout Greece, which has been decommissioning for many years. These may be hospitalisation cells for AME and at the same time also draw medical tourism from all over Europe. There are clubs all over Europe and around the world asking for these health benefits and we have them rotting. And finally, what about the plasma factory? This plasma factory has been finished for ten to twelve years. All governments tried to give a solution. The present government and the plasma factory must give a solution to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Simopoulos. Mr. Triantafylides Alexandros from SYRIZA has the floor and then George Karasmanis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no worker in the National Health System without a permanent employment relationship! Do you adopt it, Mr. Contozamani? Because here we are talking about life and death, the highest human right to life. So instead, you have made your managing authority the'movements everywhere'. Movements everywhere and not through legal recruitment means weakening the health units from which the workers move. Is it only in "Save", where your House equipped with fifty Beds ICU with no permanent staff? On the occasion of the inauguration of the WTO, it recalled the eighty-five ready-made ICMs, fully equipped, but closed because of a lack of staff. Why? Aren't there any funds? It's 37 billion the kumara we left you. It's 240 billion from the ESS. And because I've said it and said it before, and the documentation, you know, concerns me and my profession, please testify for the Minutes. Eurogroup: "How the ESM will strengthen state health expenditure". It's 240 billion. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Where's your schedule? Where's your plan? I asked you to do so in committees. Three times I spoke. I told you we're waiting to be overthrown, distracted. Where are the specific absorption programmes? Where is the EU4HEALTH programme 1.7 billion? At least since you can't do the composite, do the simple thing. Make the minimum, mass prescribing to cover the expenditure of the PCR test for the coronary. Who told you that workers, whether in the public sector or in the private sector, have to give 100-150-200 euros to how many members of their families? Who? You're telling us you're hiring. The New Democracy MPs come out and I hear them say we hired five thousand, ten thousand, twenty thousand. The reasonable question arises. After you're hiring, why is there a need for moving? Is that the price you pay to health personnel, the "moved applause"? We have said and proved it by act that the front is one and we are all together, all parties together. It's the forehead of life against pandemic, the threat of life and death. Sadly, however, where we were talking about crucifying a good reason for you, that you have really refreshed and supported the public health system, it seems that neoliberal beliefs do not leave you, are taking you down. We're talking about the workers and I'm waiting for your answer. Along with the three thousand auxiliary doctors work in hospitals and other health services with flexible forms of employment thirteen thousand contractors of all specialties. They cover standing and constant needs, since empty organic positions are thirty thousand. All these workers serve with renewed annual contracts without a single one-day interruption. The conclusion is, therefore, that the State itself realises and fully accepts that their gaps are unpaid, which is why they lead to continuous renewal contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, to the first-line masters who have battled face - a coronary card every day, they deserve only the least. They deserve to be sure that it is not windy when they return to their home and family, that no next government can play with their bread, question their presence and relationship with the National Health System. Is that my thought? I come to Mr Contozamani's words. Kramer vs. Kramer, Contozamanis v. Contozamani. I will refer to three equally timely questions to the Minister - May 30, 19th, July 13th - which I tabled as MP I Thessaloniki. I read from Mr Kontozamani's minutes alone: 'All contract workers will remain in the ESS, because they all need it. Needs are huge. No one's left over from the National Health System. We need them.’ That is what you said, Mr Contozamanis on 30 May. On 13 July you said, Mr Kontozamanis: "The necessity and safeguarding of these positions are indeed vital to these health structures. We are in discussions with the relevant ministries in order to ensure the best possible solution.' 'I am sure...' - you said - '...that in very short time we will have an answer on the matter.' You told me that on 30 May. June, July, August, September. Let's go from the second to the third wave of the coronary. When you say 'in a short time', how exactly do you mean it? On July 13, in a timely question, you said to me, Mr. Kontozamani: "You people of SYRIZA have won a problem for us. We have given a solution for a year and we are trying to find a solution to this matter permanently. And because you spoke about permanent solutions, Mr Triantafylides..." - that is what you said to me - "...and you say that there must be permanent solutions in the National Health System..." And you completed, 'yes, you have to.' You said, 'Yes, you must.' Where are the permanent solutions? Why don't you make a call, Mr. Contozamani? And you're talking about Blonde and Polakis, they've introduced the subsidiary institution. Are we going back again? This was evaluated on 7 July. Now you're judging. You're the government. The Greek people on 7 July told you "govern", "take and solve...". We took you out of the memorials, relieved you of the austerity program, gave you 37 billion dollars and gave you a clear runway to the debt and loan by 2032. What is left to do is to create the terms and conditions for a health system which will also enable workers - doctors, nurses, other staff - to give their best self for the primary health product.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u127	Very good, Mr. Comrade. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u128	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Triantafylides...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u130	Yes, because I told the committee that Xanthos and Paulakis had the troika over the head with the revolver and told them, "five retired, one hired". Once we pulled you out of the memorials, they had to find a way to keep them up, alive, so they wouldn't have left the National Health System. And instead of telling them a thank you, that we have delivered you alive and upright the National Health System, you sit and you are now using the compulsions imposed by the troika, which you do not have. You can make notices. Do it. And we're telling you the whole House, all the parties that we put our backs on. In what? No worker in the National Health System who has no permanent employment relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u131	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've already reached seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u132	I shall conclude with one sentence. The local hospital of Vineyards is a shitty example of the fact that “The Right” does not know what the Right” is. You've lost the booze. You don't have a compass. You called them a week ago and you're going through people and doctors. The world went to the local hospital of the Menemes Vineyard and they were told, "the doctor is weakening, he will become a health centre COVID -19" and on Friday these doctors you expelled, you took them back, because you changed your mind. And when I tell you, the "Right Right" doesn't know what the right" is, I mean you need to find a booze, you need to find a compass. Facing the issues, set a job plan, form a programme with immediate medium and long-term movements and options, Mr. Conzamanis. When you do that, we will be together, we will be sick, because in the face of life and death there are no parties, there is a society that is sighing economic, social and health and we will all have to put our backs on it together. Do what you have to do. Go, go, go, go, go!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u133	Mr Karasmanis has the floor from New Democracy. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to keep the time. Here, Mr. Karasmanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the twenty-four years I have been in Parliament, I rarely respond to a colleague. But I have the moral right, because Alekos the Triantafylides is a neighbor, he's a conspiracy, attracts his origin from Pella. So let him ask the two hospitals in Pella, Giannitson and Edessa to find out. At the time that government governs it has recruited over eighty executives of all specialties to subsidiary staff. Of course, there are gaps in medical staff and efforts are being made to cover them. But there is no interest in doctors. The Minister knows very well. I'm coming to the bill. Today we are discussing a contract which concerns a donation of the Foundation "Alexandros Onassis", which ensures a significant amount of 70,000.000 - for the creation of a new wing that will house the first child-surgery clinic called "Children's Onion". At the same time, it will upgrade the hospital's logistics equipment, with what this implies for public health. In addition to this, I consider it very important that the article 20th of the bill on improving the existing legislative framework and relating to assisted reproduction, namely a major national and social theme highlighting our country's demographic problem, with the inheritability. In this regard, I would like to stress that due attention should be paid to the seriousness of the observations and proposals made by the distinguished and recognised scientific validity professor and President of the Hellenic Society for Fertility and Steadyness, George Pantou, as well as to the establishment of the Supervisory Board of the Executive Board of the Supported Reproduction Authority. Listen to it, Minister, because this scientist has a great tradition of experience and knowledge. As an important I also appreciate the 20th article, which extends over one year the contracts of medical, nursing and other specialties in our National Health System. I must point out, in fact, that all this time of unprecedented pandemic, the headship of the Ministry of Health has been managed and continues to manage this nightmare with determination and efficiency. In the context of the wider government effort to deal with COVID -19, I would like to stress from the Step of the House - as we have already discussed, Minister - the abolition of the interconnection of the two hospitals in Edessa and Giannitsa, to gain administrative and service self-sufficiency in order to achieve their proper functioning in the interests of the health of the responsible population. I am referring to this, because lack of self-sufficiency is constantly causing serious dysfunctional problems. For example, the joint commander cannot have a frequent presence in both hospitals when the distance is 50 km. Also, the appointment to the board of officials from one hospital operates at the expense of the other hospital. Even the common VAT system poses problems in submitting proposals for integration into various national and Community programmes. The hostage fights between the factors of the two hospitals are fresh to claim from the interreg programme of the CT scanner and you know that very well, Minister, that. But there are also problems in credit and liquidity, problems in joint implementation of their budgets. In short, the savings that would allegedly be served by their merger - which took place in 2012 - proves myth, because the transfer of staff to committees costs more than the participation of three more members for the second hospital would cost. I believe that it is now undoubted to put an end to this merger which has in practice proved to be wrong over time. I now come to the very important amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance on the compensation of ELGA to producers who have been severely affected by the 'January'. Indeed, with this amendment, the ELGA seems to be moving in the right direction with the abolition of the 80% cut and bringing the rate of compensation up to 100%, as well as with the possibility of granting advances. But, unfortunately, this right move seems to be temporary. I simply want to say that this important amendment must have a time-consuming effect for all producers in the country affected by such damage and the scale of damage. It is one of the amendments that I had handed over in 2015 to the Ministry's successor leadership at the time, because our Government had not been able to vote because of the early elections. It is one of the same amendments that I delivered to Minister Voridis in the summer of 2019 at an information meeting I had with him. Among other things, I also gave him an additional amendment that will make provision for the state budget to be given to the ELGA and to 20% of the revenue of the Agency to strengthen its budget. And indeed, for the first time the Prime Minister, with his sensitivity, gave 35 million euros this year, and the amendment we are debating again on his own mandate provides for 20% to be retroactively granted for 2018 and 2019. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that the peaches producers have also lost their crops from the untimely and excessive rainfalls of August. However, despite the fact that with the undeniable evidence I have shown that these damages are immediate, this is strangely not accepted. These people will be compensated for by other programmes and not by the ELGA. I would like to ask why we are not bringing in a provision that characterises these damage directly, as it is, because it is different from that between producers and other weightings. In addition, producers have been damaged by the spring glaciers of March and April in early, medium-sized varieties of cherry trees, as in table and compact peaches, but unfortunately they are not compensated, and there is a solution with my proposals tabled, recorded, in fact, in the Minutes of the House of 28 July. It is also unacceptable to exclude those whose crops have been damaged by the frost of 17 March. The ELGA acknowledges the damage. They made temporary statements, but due to the special circumstances caused by the pandemic, they did not get the deadlines for submitting definitive declarations and there are still those who were not informed to submit provisional declarations either because they have no familiarity with the internet or because they were locked at home because of the pandemic, while some who submitted statements were lost by the presidents who received them precisely because of the incredible chaos that existed at that time because of the pandemic. We therefore need to do something for these people who are monocultured, because these allowances are the only way and means of survival. I insist on this, and I ask the ELGA to show its sensitivity. Likewise, we must ensure that the winegrowers, who have also suffered the damage to table grapes with their crops, suffer a high degree of quality deterioration in so far as it is not marketable, are also compensated. We must not forget the producers of grape varieties, for example the latex of Edessa, which is a wine and retsina specialist, but because of the legitimate concerns and the insecurity of consumers, the restrictive measures imposed and the resulting dramatic reduction in consumption cannot make their crops available. There's these people in a financial deadlock too. In fact, I also received a letter expressing their despair today, which is why I shall be tabling it in the Minutes. There is no doubt that something must be done for them too. I have also received another letter - which I will also present in the Minutes - from producers of the people's markets who are complaining about the enormous financial damage they have suffered from the restrictive measures, so that they cannot dispose of their sensitive products to the consumer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u135	Please finish, Mr. Comrade. You've been in eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Of course, for them, I have sent a letter to the Ministry's leadership with all the information - invoices, shipping notes, statements of IACS - proving the size of the damage they have suffered and which damage is constantly increasing, and in particular the last two months of September and October. I believe, of course, that the decision, which will be taken, will involve fair compensation to cover the actual loss of their income. Thank you, Mr President, for giving us time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr Kavada and before the seat is ready, the Minister for the Interior asked the floor to develop the amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am only speaking for one minute to present the substance of the amendment, which concerns the National Transparency Authority, and in particular the need to make it easier for inspectors and auditors of the National Transparency Authority to work further. It is well known to all that the conditions, which have existed because of the coronary pandemic, have involved the national Transparency Authority's control mechanisms to a far greater extent, have multiplied the checks carried out by the relevant auditors and inspectors and we should make it easier for them, as too many moves of them are made at distances less than the 50 km limit that has been in place so far, in order to compensate for the travel and the related costs. With this amendment, it is precisely for us to be able to obtain compensation for the members of the National Transparency Authority, workers, inspectors and auditors who carry out these checks and for distances of less than 50 km from the distance from either the central service of the National Transparency Authority or the regional services to the premises of the relevant audit where they are carried out. I believe that it is perfectly logical and responds to the request of the National Transparency Authority, of workers and of common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kavvadas has the floor, and then Mrs. Theodora Augeris will be prepared by SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the worrying dimensions of the coronary pandemic still necessitates the state's constant and timely interventions to protect public health. The draft legislation we are discussing today is also part of the shielding of the public health system. The agreement ratified in the first part of the ‘Union’ bill relates to a long-term project with a deadline for completion on 30 June 2024, a total value of EUR 70 million. It includes the construction of a new fully equipped wing in the "Ononsio", the renovation of existing spaces, as well as the creation of a modern pediatric clinic specialising in cardiology and heart surgery. The creation of a heart surgery centre for children is a high time in the long history of our great national benefactors and the public health system needs such benefits that upgraded it, as was needed by the donation of 8m euros made by the Greek Parliament at the "Salvation" Hospital for the creation of a fully equipped standard intensive treatment unit of fifty beds, which was already inaugurated yesterday by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The second part of the bill, as well as Amendment No 522, deals with very important issues. Extension is given to the contracts of auxiliary staff of hospitals and with retroactive effect. There is a monthly compensation of EUR 2,000 from the family doctors whose contracts were extended. Aid is provided for and staffed by the thousands of two hundred intensive care units available by the end of the year in hospitals. The overall limit of the pharmacy expenditure of the EEAS is increased to EUR 2.088 million and more. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the staffing problems faced by hospitals and health centres in Lefkada, Kefalonia and Zakynthos. That is exactly what the amendment is about to answer under general number 525 and special number 92, which we have tabled with our colleagues Mr Cappato and Mr Dionysoupi. The Hospital of Lefkada, where I come from and have the honour of representing it, is now housed in a new and functional building and there have been serious and substantial interventions to upgrade its operation. However, there is a problem of hospital staffing in basic medical specialties. The long distance from Athens and the large urban centers, coupled with the difficulty of finding a roof and the instigation of the island character of my county, discourages candidate doctors. Thus many notices become barren as there is a reluctance for doctors to serve in unacceptable areas, resulting in basic hospital clinics being suboptimal or covered by only one physician. The designation of the Lefkada Hospital, as well as of the health center, which operates in my town as barren First Class can solve this problem. Apart from Lefkada itself, which has the characteristics of an island area, Lefkada Hospital serves the islands of Meganisi, Kalamos and Kastos, as well as the neighbouring areas of Itolokarnania. Increased needs for medical staff can be met if medical doctors are encouraged to serve as barren hospitals. That is why I would like to thank the Minister, but also the State Secretary, Mr Kikilia and Mr Kontozamani, for accepting our amendment. I call on my dear colleagues to vote in favour of this provision which will provide a solution to the staff of our hospitals. I also believe, Minister, that we should look again at the institutional framework and the incentives for doctors who serve in remote and inaccessible island regions, but also in hospitals that have been classified as barren. Incentives not necessarily only economic but also institutional and graduation. I shall refer to some of these: it is a great role to ensure that these hospitals are served over time. Do not seek any new doctors to make up for vacant posts. A new substantial incentive relates to secondary doctors who in their contracts should in advance be provided for a two-year renewal after their termination. Incentives must also be given to permanent doctors. Today, based on Law 4461/2017, permanent ESS doctors who serve in barren hospitals are entitled to request a transfer after five years of service. This limit could be reduced, but with an insurance policy, in order not to create new vacant posts in these hospitals, the transfer should take place only after the doctor concerned has been placed in the hospital. I also believe that, in the institutional framework for incentives for doctors to serve in fertile hospitals, there should also be graduation incentives. In the current context the promotion from the position of curator II in the position of curator I requires seven years of service. Promoting the Director's post therefore requires an eight-year service. These limits should be reduced in order for doctors serving in fertile hospitals to have a more rapid grading effect. Ladies and gentlemen, all the data show that the pandemic will at least accompany us for this winter. The government, by means of emergency measures and legislation, adapts its strategy to the needs of the present and future, listening to experts, examines and prepares for all scenarios, protects public health, strengthens the economy and supports society to stand up and defeat. And he'll win, we'll get out of this adventure more united, more determined, and that's why more powerful than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u141	Thank you too, Mr. Kavada. Ms Theodora Augeris has the floor from SYRIZA and I will then give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are given the opportunity to remind ourselves that with a SYRIZA government it has started and to a large extent, this great donation of the "Onceau" has been achieved, namely a healthy private initiative for the benefit of the social group. It was with the government of SYRIZA that entered a class in the finances of the "Carstic Surgery Association", which ensured the jobs that became the "haircut" of the debts and the deficits of the funds eventually became over-the-counter, which became sound and effective management in order to finally create the conditions, this credibility that someone needed to come to and donate EUR 70 million. However, I find it difficult to understand why in a draft law to ratify the amendment of a convention, such as the one on the donation of the 'Oonesion', a number of provisions that do not even concern the pandemic have been included. And when it comes to the emergency arrangements for pandemic, we see provisions at least suspects. As time is very limited, I will go directly to the chase, to which Mr Paulakis referred in his speech, and I shall mention himself what this Article 10 provides for to the knowledge of the citizens who are following us. Article 10 Titled: ‘Legislation of health centres’, and reads: ‘Taxes of health centres from the examination of samples of CIVID suspect biological material -19 in private laboratories or other bodies carrying out examinations, public or private law, carried out during the period from 1 March 2020 to the publication of this, by way of derogation from the provisions on public procurement, are legal, cleared and paid to the beneficiaries at the expense of the budget of the ICM, to which they are subject, with a single document’, Minister, ‘the invoice, following a previous decision of the board of directors of the relevant ICM, authorising the number of tests carried out and the amount of the expenditure concerned’. What do you mean and how do you mean, "only the invoice issued", Minister? No contract? No receipt practice? No delivery time? No quality check? And from what management boards do the PPP concerned have, since the PPPs do not have management boards, have only a commander and a sub-administrator? And how can you continue to legislate on pandemic by way of derogation from the provisions of eight months after the outbreak of the pandemic? How long does the Mitsotakis Government want to finally organize a plan against the pandemic without deviating? With this, allow me, a scandalous provision of Article 10, you once again open a "window" so that every misappropriate individual can produce without control forged and virtual invoices. There is no control at all. I am afraid that once again and to something so important - perhaps, Minister, it is not so important for you and that is why you are not giving the basis of what I am saying - what are you doing? Instead of adjusting, you're dismantling. Instead of shielding the public, you leave space to develop corruption and interlocutory phenomena again, I'd say a black market test. Instead of strengthening control mechanisms, opaque methods and practices are strengthened and growing. There are no majority ladies, I think they're only majority gentlemen here. We are not saying that it is wrong to help private health centres or that they should not be compensated. The question is how. We disagree vertically in the way that you choose as a government majority to do so. In the way that you pretextly invoke pandemics, the way that you are judged and fully epilepsy. And you do so often and we have told you each time with questions to the relevant ministers, who sometimes respond and respond slowly and sometimes choose not to answer them. One example is that the question we tabled on 13 October has not been answered at the initiative of the former Minister of Health and Sector at SYRIZA, Mr Xanthos on 13 October 2020 in relation to the opaque and selective and at the expense of the public interest hospitals of the ESS of Thessaloniki with private diagnostic centers in Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I understand you because I will need two minutes, if possible, because what I want to present is very important. There's Mr. Simopoulos here and possibly...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u143	You still have time. Warning is this bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u144	Good. ...not to know exactly what, for example, is being done at the "Hippoktreet" Hospital of Thessaloniki, where we have a process with too many questions, rather a non-process. In April 2020, we had a contract with a private diagnostic centre "Analyst" with 65 euros each. On June 12, another contract comes with another company with 60 euros a test. At the suggestion of the Minister, which says that the highest price for each test is 50 euros, we have a new decision on the part of the commander of the "ACHEPA" Hospital for carrying out a test and a sum of about 800 thousand euros in order to go to private individuals. At the moment we do not know how the private diagnostic has been chosen. I've got all the documents here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u145	‘CHAPTER’ or ‘Superiority’;
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u146	‘Herzegovina’. Did I say "HAHAH"? Oh, I'm sorry, I'm correcting. Inadvertently, I mentioned it. It is the Hippocrates. I repeat, Mr President, that it is the Hippocrates. We have seen different contracts with different medical diagnostic centers with different prices today, while a sum has come out of the commander - because there is no board of directors in the Hippocrates - we have a envelope that we don't know how it is available, by what process, if you look at "HUMANY" you will find exactly nothing, but we have results of diagnostic tests from private diagnostic tests that are not mentioned anywhere in the decisions. I will test in the Minutes and a picture of kibo in the Hippocrates, which says that there is a test carried out by this private company in the Hippocrates, as well as - of course by taking care of personal data - and a evidence showing that a diagnostic test has been carried out in the Hippocrates. In conclusion, Minister, I would like you to reply to this question we have asked you for some time now, as well as to the question we have submitted to you for the way in which you have doubled the private ICMs, with EUR 1600 a day and - I am going to use this verb - we demand that you withdraw the scandalous provision 10 that has nothing to do with neither the content nor the spirit of this very important convention, which we are now called upon to ratify. Thank you very much for your time and your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Mr Christos Kelles will then speak from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr. Andreas Xanthos from SYRIZA. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Do we have a bill that is basically facing an amendment to a contract made in government SYRIZA in 2018, which was, in essence, what was it? A possibility for the "Obsoleum" Foundation to extend the "Cardiocratic Center" and with new units. On the substance of what do we have with this convention, which was headed by SYRIZA? An extension of business in the health sector because the Union is a health business unit does not belong to the public health system. So we have a form of public-private partnership, which is the beginning, we would say, the main cause of the deterioration of the public health system. From this point of view, our rapporteur has referred in detail to the issues contained in the bill. Speaking of the bill, the Minister referred to the general sense that exists in society, making an ambitious effort to shape the health situation, but the feeling that exists in society is not arbitrarily formulated, shaped by the objective picture, is shaped by the reality that popular strata are experiencing on health issues. This picture is thus determined by the very great inadequacies that exist in the public health system. It is determined by time-consuming procedures. Here are many months' waiting lists even for simple medical appointments. In the first phase of the pandemic, tens of thousands of regular surgery were postponed. This is the reality that the world is experiencing. From this point of view, this whole picture is nothing but the result of the very large shortages of staff, medical and nursing, the very great shortages in technology and infrastructure. Of course, it is also a result of a fundamental lack of primary health care. This picture also shows the health action, the voice of health, which the Minister has tried to knit, but has forgotten to stress here above all the constant efforts made by the health care professionals, the racing movements which the government has sometimes dealt with, both with MATs and with chemicals. And, of course, this picture, which presents the public health system not only in the midst of a pandemic but even much before, is a timeless responsibility of all parties, and of the New Democracy and SYRIZA and PASOK - a movement of change. Why? Because they adapt health requirements to cost logic, and therefore costs must be managed. Managed for who? Not to satisfy the needs of the people's strata, but on the basis of the pursuits of business groups. This logic of lowering health costs led to the deterioration of the public health sector, led to the closure of hospitals and workshops by New Democracy and by SYRIZA as government. For example, the Thorakos Hospital in Patras, which was a specialist hospital in pulmonary conditions, was closed at the government of SYRIZA. One government gives the dog to another. Secondly, this logic of cost has contributed to overthrowing labour relations in health and nursing care. So instead of permanent work, we have a escalation of flexible forms of employment, for example, of subsidiary doctors and nurses, who are paid out of the same revenues of hospitals, public hospitals operating as business units, because all the governments that went through this afternoon kept them to cover, that is, the needs through the involvement of nurses in these areas. Of course, these overturns and today they exist, they are general. Besides, it is no coincidence that in the midst of a pandemic we have very large movements of nursing personnel, trying to cover some holes by opening up, however, other much larger than where they leave. And all this, of course, in the logic of development, of business and health, whether it is private, or it is the public that this business is essentially in conflict with the social nature of health that health must have. So we are dealing with a conscious choice of all governments in the deterioration of the public health sector, which, instead of being given up by the state to all equally citizens, is becoming individual responsibility. So we have reached this point in the middle of a pandemic, because of a policy that measures the health and life of the people in the midst of the cost, it undermines the need for the staff and infrastructure needed to deal with current and exceptional cases as in the pandemic today. Of course, it is not true that the state has no money, giving billions for either armaments or the needs of business groups. The Government of New Democracy, by depositing individual responsibility, wants to hide the timeless state responsibilities for the smashing of the public health system and, at the same time, on the occasion of the pandemic, the government has launched a new round of attack on workers' rights along with the capitalist crisis. It implements scientific recommendations by moving the hand to young people and, at the same time, closes the eyes to the huge lack of means of protection in the workplace, to the crowd that exists daily in public transport, encourages the undeclaration of the employer. Instead of the time gained in the first phase of the pandemic, it will be used to serve public health units with permanent health recruitment, travel policy is implemented. Already in the so - called armoured public health system, as the government says, ranching of rads reappeared in hospital newspapers. From this point of view, it is clear that the protection of public health today, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, requires that there be a sufficient increase in funding from the State budget to support all public health establishments for their current and exceptional needs, to abolish all payments and participation of the people in hospitals, examinations and medicines, to make massive recruitments with a permanent relationship of health work and other personnel of all branches and specialities in hospitals, health centres, EKAV, the 'Help at Home' service, and of course their integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions from which they were exempted from the PASOK government. To permanentize all health workers, without conditions and conditions, who work with all kinds of temporary employment relationships. To fully reoperate all public health establishments, laboratories and those that have been closed and those that are still working, developing and serving, but also equip all health centres, primary health care units, so that they operate on a 24-hour basis all year round dismantling hospitals. To develop at least three and a half thousand ITH beds in public hospitals, what is necessary to meet the regular needs and not just the emergencies due to the pandemic. To ensure the necessary quantity and quality of protective agents and sanitary materials. Implement preventive control measures, but also fully implement the protection measures of workers at work, as well as carry out free diagnostic tests for workers with the responsibility of the employer. To abolish any distribution and involvement of the private sector in health. These are basic measures which can now, as objectives, help to protect the health of the people. Of course, the JRC is well known to struggle for a society with such an organisation of production and services as well as the entire economy that its development will be determined solely by not profit, but modern popular needs and health, with universal services, guaranteed by the state, with full use of all modern possibilities offered by science and technology. And that is, of course, socialism, which is the answer to the current barbaricity of the capitalist system. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] Allow me, Mr President, to take the time left to refer to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Agriculture, which is supposed - on the basis of government declarations - to address all the disasters suffered by farmers by the 'January'. First of all, it is an exceptional amendment. It applies only to the affected areas and the damaged agricultural production as a result of the 'January' and only to the 'January'. It will not apply to others who will come in the next period, nor to previous years. Just before the 'January' we had the catastrophic floods in Evia. However, Evia is exempted from the same measures to deal with damages, as is done in the affected areas of 'January' or 'Laconia' with the catastrophic summer fires. Secondly, beyond the temporary nature and the 'extra' of the amendment. It does not, as the government claims, cover 100% of the losses because it actually covers the insured value which may be less than the actual value. One issue is this, the actual value of production that was destroyed is far greater than the insured value. And, of course, it leaves all these farmers out of compensation - who could not secure production. They are not going to be compensated, and this is the result of the policy pursued over time by the previous governments in the last decade on substance, where they have imposed the participation of farmers in the insurance of their production. In this way, not only did state participation in ELGA declined, but on the contrary did not enter a single euro from the state budget into the ELGA funds, so that ELGA presents this image of the lack of funds, but also the very large subsidization it has at the same time. In this respect, it is very important that the JRC's amendment for the twelve workers in the ELGA, who are made redundant following the judicial decision and who - in our opinion - should remain at work, because they are experienced, work for too many years and meet the constant needs of the ELGA. In this respect, therefore, because of the subsidization of the ELGA, which leads to a process of privatising the insurance of agricultural production, we are leading to the result of a slow assessment of disasters, and therefore also of the underestimation of flood disasters. In this respect, we have a lesser estimate of the damage that has been done, and in substance the amendment does not cover all the losses to income. For example, in the Ionian Islands because of the 'Janu' a series of new lion trees - five, six years old - were rooted out. In order for these to grow, they want another five years. In other words, the income of those who had placed the new lipo trees went back five years. Is this loss of income going to be covered in some way? In no way will it be covered. And the third element is delays in compensation. Despite the Ministry's declarations that the advance will be granted by mid-October, we exceeded in mid-October. Already with the provision made by the amendment, he speaks of Genaris, in substance, about the beginning of the new year, so that farmers - who have been destroyed - cannot get back into their fields because they cannot cultivate this period which is crucial. The need and demand for the agricultural movement to provide 70% immediately as an advance payment of compensation from the disasters that have to be made, and in this respect the JRC calls on the Government to proceed immediately to the payment of 70% of compensation by mid-November. Thank you very much, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u149	Be well. Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing and will be voting on today sets out a number of operational issues which fall within the competence of the Ministry of Health, while at the same time the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Rural Development gives hope to those affected by the 'January'. And I would like to begin with the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development, as it refers to the affected areas, such as the Larise Prefecture and, in particular, the Municipality of Farsalon. I would particularly like to mention the initiative taken by the Ministry of Rural Development to speed up the procedures and to make progress for the first time on 100% compensation for producers from 80% who were so far given a generous advance. And here I am thinking: is that the right thing to do and should be permanently left in the ELGA regulation from now on? I mean, 100% loss - 100% compensation. What's more reasonable? And I come to Article 4 of the amendment, which I consider to be extremely important. There, therefore, is provision for free financial support from the Public Investment Programme for agricultural holdings, craft and industrial units, shops and other businesses. This grant covers material damage to buildings, equipment, raw materials, goods, lorries, means of production and stored products, which have been recorded as damaged. That is why we are also calling on the ministers to do the same, as is 100% of the ELGA compensation. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis once again proved in practice that he stands decisively on the side of the farmers affected and farmers. The damages from the ‘January’ that will be compensated by ELGA exceed EUR 100 million and will be fully covered by the State budget. However, there are individual problems, such as one of them I will mention, which concerns cotton producers in Thessaic Cabo. In too many fields there are cotton, which have not been destroyed, but from mud is coffee. The result is that the vacants say that this cotton is useless and, therefore, they do not take it or take it against a degrading price. Will these areas be calculated at 100% of the damage? I would therefore like to welcome the work of the Greek Parliament and the provision that the grant of the construction and supply of the fifty new ICU beds is completed at the Salvation Hospital. Now, as far as the body of the bill is concerned, we should welcome and also thank the Onassis Foundation, the Government, as well as the "Onasio Cardiff Center" for the great and national work of establishing and equipping the "Onasios National Transplant Centre" and the donation of the "Onasios Children". It is our government that increased the MF beds and by the end of the year it will have more than doubled them than the ones received from the previous government. We've moved on to the creation of eight hundred new posts for doctors. Of these three hundred are doctors specializing in intensive medicine, as well as a thousand organic nurses, including a hundred physiotherapists. This staff will serve the new intensive care units, which we will maintain after the pandemic, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, in order for the citizen to have decent care, as a modern European state deserves and not to resort to political means of finding a bed in an intensive unit when needed. Furthermore, it is positive that the pharmaceutical cost of the EEAS is increased by EUR 30 million, while arrangements are introduced to support the work of the National Transplant Organisation, the daily care units and the central service of the Ministry of Health. Finally, the budget ceiling for the public investment programme for the treatment of the coronary by EUR 1 billion in the national strand and by EUR 500 million in the co-financed strand is reintroduced, while the possibility of renewing all the active ancillary, medical, nursing and any other staff of the ERC until 31/12-2021 is given. And, of course, in the battle against the coronary, you have already entered and done well, Mr Minister, the primary health care, the TOMY and health care centres, so that the hospitals can be dismantled and the hospitals can do the work they must do. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the New Democracy Government once again proves that it is practically next to those who need it. At the same time, it makes use of every means at its disposal to protect public health. Of course we are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. Mr. Blonde has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should make a total reference to the situation of the pandemic in the country, which is at a very limiting moment. And what I have received from the committees and from the Minister's committees today, as well as from the Members of the Partnership, is that you seem not to realize the criticality of this phase and on the contrary there is a tendency to magnify reality, to make praiseworthy references to the management that has been done, to triumph the government about its achievements and on the health side. Ladies and gentlemen, you must be very careful why you will be exposed. And I'm telling you all about it. And that is no longer a question of feeling ours. The polls you like to watch are very clear about them. 64% of citizens believe that the health system has not been shielded, as you claim. Only 42% of citizens agree with management and have confidence in the government's handling of health issues. I would remind you that this percentage in the first phase was 85%. It's all about something. So when you come here to tell us that you doubled the ITH beds, which is obviously not the case, to tell us that you shielded the health system, to tell us that you have made thousands of recruitments and at the same time the media, society to fight if it can withstand the growing cases of the last few weeks, if the debate is how, indeed, public structures can manage decently the people who will be persecuted, when we are already in the ninety persecuted and beyond, I think there is a huge discrepancy. And let me say that this is also a contradiction in terms of trying to raise public awareness. Can you not want to make a proper risk assessment by society and especially by young people and make an effort to make a conscious approach to restrictive measures and at the same time to tell us that: 'We are going much better than the other countries of Europe, let us say we are going around, do you not see what is going on elsewhere'? This has a contradiction and let me say that it needs a serious effort to really curb pandemic, which I consider to be a national objective. And it's not a police case to protect public health. There is a lack of persuasiveness, and this is a defeat for the state and its competent bodies. I'm not talking about the government. So there must be a coup d'état of serious, scientific, to explain, to raise awareness, to know the real facts, to be able to understand the danger. Otherwise, with "decide and order" from the bricks and no compliance is available and we will have a serious problem as long as we enter winter. We have said too much about the ITHs that are the subject of the days. Obviously, it was a positive step yesterday, but this has also been an attempt to work and to join this plan that I said before exorcism and triumph. But here, let me say that there is also a regulation that I also stressed in the committees that it is unacceptable. What's your line? We are getting rid of - apologise for the term - we are removing incidents from the public health system non-COVID -19 and transferring them to the private sector, in order to increase the capacity of the ESS in cases of COVID -19. That's right. On what conditions is the matter? Is it possible in a health crisis phase that you have already rushed since spring to double the daily hospital and these days, some time ago, to come out of a joint ministerial decision that casts the standards of staffing and enables the clinical authorities to increase up to 40% of the IF beds in their clinics with the same staff? Did you tell the WHO that to instruct you to do a patient quality and safety office in Greece? Did you say that? Do people in the WHO and in Europe know what conditions Greek patients will be treated in the private sector at this time? Even this story of the WHO office you showed it about as your creation. WHO's office has been in Greece for three years! The chief director of WHO Tedro Gembregesus, the current head of the WHO, came and opened it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u153	That's another office.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u154	I know. If you look at the publications, they say: New WHO Office in Greece. This is not a new office. It is about obtaining a new content. All right, I say, but no and present it to us that it was your conquest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u155	Why didn't you bring it five years?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u156	The WHO's office exists in Greece, Minister, and Tedros Gebregesus came in and opened it. This was the important step, not to obtain content for patient quality and safety. And you say that the country has gained experience from a law that has not been implemented!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u157	(It didn't sound)...and then you talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u158	Please! The Law on the IRS has not been implemented! What experience has the country gained and you claim credit?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u159	I filed the official...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u160	Minister, please. You have time to talk as long as you want. Mr. Xanthi, please, you've reached seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u161	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'll try to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u162	No, that's it. Please finish in thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u163	I had these vacations, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u164	All right, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u165	To close this, the WHO decided to make an office in Greece, a regional office in Greece, because it precisely recognised the previous government's efforts to do two things: firstly, universal health coverage and guaranteed access for all people to medical care with the law.4368 for uninsured people and, secondly, reform of primary care, which we have moved on and which you have frozen and suspended. Tedro Gebregesos, the director General of WHO, has visited TOMY in Greece. He has gone to the Keramikos TOMY and the government's political leadership has not gone, neither Minister nor the State Secretary to visit one of these structures opened up by the previous government! And then you're talking about reform? What reforms?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u166	I was in Zakynthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u167	All right now, Mr. Undersecretary, you're welcome. You made an intervention for primary care and there was no word TOMY. We picked it up, you had to make it clear. And now legislate that you carry doctors and staff to health centers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Xanthi, please, you've reached nine minutes. Please finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u169	They're stopping us all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u170	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u171	Okay. One is that. Second point which I would also like to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u172	Yes, but you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u173	But please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u174	But it can't be! Go to ten minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u175	I'm on holiday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u176	No, you're not accepting any interruptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u177	What's "no interruption"?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Triantafylides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u179	Two more things I'll say. First, compensation for diagnostic tests. We have repeatedly stressed that it is not possible at a stage of health crisis and threats to public health that an examination of public health should not be carried out by the EPPC and that households should be charged with an unreasonable burden. I really do wonder how you continue not to deal with this loose end. Now it has to be resolved, so that there is easy access to both clinical medical examination and testing, so that we can really contribute to preventing the spread of the virus. Secondly, the issue of co-responsibility and I shall end with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u180	Finish it. You speak ten minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u181	I'll be done. I said that to the committee. Your behaviour and the National Aided Reproduction Authority, in its administration, which was approved by an increased majority of Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency, and the administration of the EEAS, which was also approved by the Committee on Social Affairs of the Parliament, is completely uninstitutional. You don't even let the term be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u182	Please! You've reached eleven minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u183	It is purely customer-friendly and favourable behaviour to public administration officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u184	Look, you know, I'm on a personal level how much I appreciate Mr. Blondie, but this thing can't happen. We can't have a Member speaking for 11 minutes and the other six. I'm saying it for the rest of us. The next Member will also want to speak for eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u185	Well, six minutes nobody spoke. They spoke seven, eight and nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u186	Wait a minute. You've been talking for about ten and a half minutes. Minister, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u187	No, I've spoken. Mr Loverdos has the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with an issue concerning the country's foreign policy. We have just been informed that there is agreement at first, if we understood well, Greece and Albania about the recourse to The Hague in relation to maritime zones. We have nothing more as a party than journalists' report. However, because we have an opinion on these issues, we put forward our opinion at first, with nothing more in mind and without having seen a specific text, if that is the case. So we say that Greece has proved for many decades, with all its governments, that it is in favour of international legitimacy, and in this case it has ratified and ratified the Treaty on the Law of the Sea and recognises the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice of The Hague, as well as of the Hamburg Court, which includes as a judiciary, preferring the International Court of The Hague with an explicit statement. I have to say to the Chamber that the procedure until we get there involves negotiation on a number of issues, which will result in the promise that we will go to The Hague. So he's in front of us. Therefore, every move that expresses Greece's faithful position in favour of international legality is in agreement. However, we must also see the texts accompanying them or the statements accompanying them in addition to the report, in order to express an opinion on all that has already been done and not already been done. I repeat, it is a process that starts with the expression of mood, but it is, all ahead of us. My second point concerns the country's economic policy. After all, ladies and gentlemen, for many months, unfortunately, the country has been suffering from three issues: from COVID -19, from the recession that our pandemic has led and will lead further, but also from Turkey, a neighbouring state of turmoil. It has come to my attention, ladies and gentlemen, that these difficult hours, this morning in the Committee on Finance - together with the plenary, the draft law on the new bankruptcy code, as we call it in our current parliamentary dialect, are not exactly that - the Minister of Finance has spoken very badly about the party to which I have the honour of being a member. I return to him all the arguments and remind him that his party led the country to the memorials and not the PASOK government at that time as he said this morning. They put us in the memorials, in that situation they sent the country, Ministers, and with the evidence presented by the National Statistical Authority - the leadership of which you chased and a part of it was after you a few months ago, Andreas Georgiou - where there were the deficits, the terrible deficits that democracy has never experienced in the post-military and, of course, the public debt. I wonder how the Minister of Finance chose these days to get out of his clothes and to tell us that each party has the place he deserves. the one who participated in the parliamentary group, Mr Stagioras, she. A parliamentary group that supported the government that was driving the country there and did not put back when we asked for support from the other parties in this House. He opposed and founded the anti-immemorial front as a New Democracy. He's not here and he's not an act of parliamentary disrespect. But I answer him from the Stepma - because, from the Step of the House, he spoke - and on Thursday we will be here on the issues of his draft law, we will come back on these issues. In this respect, of course, let us tell us why a very important decision by the European Commission, which has put forward a website,'money tourism.gr' - only there I found it - informs the Greek people that in the field of tourism state subsidies of 800,000 euros have reached 3 million euros per business. What I read on the money - tourism.gr, I looked into it and I didn't find it anywhere. as also, I did not find the criticism of the President of the Greek Chamber of Hotel of Greece, Mr. Vassilikos, where he complains that such serious news has been lost. Why has it been buried? I put it in the Minutes of the House to know who or whoever wishes to know. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Secretary of Health, I have a question at all rhetoric. I have submitted to parliamentary scrutiny - I do not like bringing ministers here for no reason, I prefer written questions, but that also has many exceptions - three questions. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. No answer! Secondly, on 23 June 2020 on the health situation in Kefalonia following the dramatic events there. No answer! Third, on 29 September 2020 together with other Members of the Change Movement to Degrade the Operations of the CSD. I'm waiting for the answer! And now I have asked a question about northern Greece and about the health situation there. This is more recent and I also look forward to the answer. So, how have you seen this? How have you seen her so I can say it more popular? Why don't you answer? You have a problem with me and you don't answer me? I'm a former Minister of Health. I've been a congressman for many years. Why don't you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u189	Would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u190	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u191	I'm sorry, is that between you two now? With time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u192	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u193	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u194	That is why I answer, Mr President. Minister, we are the first in response to current and written questions, Ministry in the Greek Parliament, despite the coronary. I apologize for the partners and the entire Ministry if any written questions have not been answered. I can assure you, however, that twice a week and throughout the pandemic we are here and respond to current events. I'm sure there's no personal matter at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u195	Up to date, you're answering. You're not answering the papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u196	As far as we can afford, Minister. Listen, Minister, and Mr President, there is a delay in the written questions. I would ask you all to consider - and I apologise for sitting here, I do not want to interrupt - the situation that exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u197	No situation can lead there, especially Minister, when you talk to me. You referred to the conditions under which I was the Minister of Health and I did not fail to respond, I respected Parliament. And if you are first in answers, which Mr Blonde also doubts, then my case is an unfavourable exception. In a logical way, this suggests that you are not answering me. As regards transplants, I was waiting today, ladies and gentlemen, for the debate to focus there. But you do not let the way you legislate, not in memorial conditions, but in addition to memoranda, the issues should be raised. You're bombing draft laws with other provisions. They are earning this time of the Members, because they have socially controversial issues within them, for which Parliament is not in agreement. They're not all parties, I mean. So we are not allowed to discuss transplants like this. It's a huge matter. I said at last! Because of the donation from the Onassis Foundation, we could make a serious reference. We didn't! Law 3984/2011, which was voted on my own legislative initiative, is the basis of every debate on transplants. None of this issue, the big one, the serious one has been heard here, nor has it even been mentioned in the previous serious effort that harmonized Greek legislation with European law. Once we talk about transplants - are you taking such a legislative initiative - are you both organ donors? It's me. I would not dare to talk about transplants as a Minister or as a Member if I were not a donor myself. I have my identity to show you. Activism doesn't make it from the Step. I hope you're both. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense. It's hypocrisy. In fact, as the Minister for Health, I had forced the members of the Ministerial Council to become donors. I had achieved the greatest number of them. Because, then, gentlemen, the average donor in Greece was 4.1 citizens per million inhabitants. With the great effort, we had reached the seven citizens per million inhabitants, which were very great and serious progress. We were last in the European Union in terms of donors. Three parties voted, two parties did not vote for the relevant law from that House. The day we were voting was the day Parliament had been excluded from the outraged. We couldn't get out of this Chamber. I am reminded of this to say that, despite the fact that it was too heavy a agenda for our daily life, the government did not omit these issues, but emphasised it as a PASOK government in all of this. It is a pity that today we have not been able to talk about the situation with the transplants in Greece, whether or not the National Transplant Organisation is also being strengthened. Nothing on this subject has been discussed since the morning we have been in the Chamber. Mr President, if you give me one, one and a half minutes, I would like to make a reference to the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u198	You've got a minute and a half, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u199	Look, the new situation includes a two-digit number of deaths in one day and a negative record of new cases that have approached and exceeded five hundred cases a day - look out - twice as dead as countries with multiple cases. The new situation has twice as dead in relation to our first phase and then, but analogously, far greater in relation to the cases and deaths that exist in Italy and other countries of Europe. Something's going on here. We have more cases and we don't know about it. Greece has no peculiarities. We have a problem, ladies and gentlemen, and we still have a problem with winter. Mr Poulas has said several things - I have no time to say more - about the state with which the health system welcomes the waves of cases. For a long time now, throughout the whole time of the crisis I have been here, because as a Parliamentary representative I have been at every plenary sitting at the time, but then I have said two things about the health ministry: firstly, I have stressed that you are not even commenting on our proposals for the inclusion of nurses in heavy and unhealthy. You don't say a word! You're told by other parties, SYRIZA tells you, all the opposition parties tell you. You're not commenting, I haven't heard a word, you haven't said a word! Secondly, are we prepared in good time in terms of training for the staff of intensive care units? Have we done our debt? Have you made your debts to the world you've placed in the ICUs? You know, as all health ministers know, this is the most complex part of hospital treatment and it needs people with experience and good training. Young people who go - and who have no experience - have training, have they been trained? Has it been used in the summer to do all that is strictly necessary to make the intensive care units work effectively? It's not enough to have them, we have to help patients. This is something that also remains unresolved. You are bouquets when we raise these issues and I would ask you very much if not today, if you do not want today - I would ask you for today - to get some answers at some point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u202	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the last Mr Loverdos said, because it is of great value and importance, and it is about whether or not we are preparing for both the health system and intensive care units. Of course, we have also prepared, in collaboration with the Intensive Treatment Society, for seminars. You have been accusing us here for the past few days of making personal movements. Do you know why we're doing this? First of all, I would like to say that moves have been made over the years. And I also told the committee that for its day the previous government - there are also relevant documents and legislation - has extended the moves for which the staff are moving by law by the end of the year. Why were we moving around, especially in the new intensive care unit at Salvation? We have done them, therefore, in order for people with experience and knowledge - because all those who have moved have experience in intensive care units - to welcome the new personnel coming from the crises - which we are completing very briefly - so that they are all trained to deal with these incidents. And I want to say one more thing. The intensive care unit at Salvation - because you tell us that we inaugurated it - is ready to welcome patients. It is pleasant that patients have not yet been indicated. You know, today - the number is today - ten beds are available in the intensive care unit of the "Salvation" Hospital. So what do you want? For communication reasons to fill the new intensive and even the moment that we still don't need and when we still have powers to exhaust? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] You mentioned, Mr. Loverdo, in heavy and unhealthy. You know that there is a committee set up by the previous government, which deals with the issues of heavy and unhealthy things, and we expect the conclusion at government level to see what is going to happen with heavy and unhealthy things. I want to say something about the tests. Let me say to Mr Skourletis this: Mr Skourletis, thank you very much for the confidence you show in the public health system. Because you said you went to do the tests in the private sector and paid, you had to pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u204	Not me, Minister! Listen to what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u205	Someone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u206	You didn't hear that. I did so in the House, which the other Greeks do not have access to and they pay out of their pockets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u207	In the public health system, public structures, monitoring and examination are free of charge. You have to understand that. He doesn't have to pay any of our fellow citizens who have to run the test and go to public structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u208	So, whoever goes to the private sector is stupid?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u209	The test shall be carried out if certain conditions are met.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u210	Ah, if the conditions are met!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u211	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u212	Yeah, we're not going out of a lab and we're doing a test. There are criteria. And we're doing some tests and we're taking things for other occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u213	Wait a minute, Minister. Mr. Tridafylides, will you now fight with my colleague from New Democracy? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u214	That is why, as we have stressed many times, there is no need to prescribe the test at the moment and compensation from the EEAS.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u215	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u216	Because it is free of charge from the National Health System, if anyone needs to do so. Make your cross because that's the truth, Mr. Triantafylides! I'd like to say one more thing. Mr Triantafylides, because you spoke about European programmes and all of this, I would like to say that you did not tell us about the 75 billion billion of the recovery fund that will come to the country and support the national economy and the health system. You ask us where all these amounts are and how they will be used. Here they are, they come and we will use them for the benefit of the health system. You told us about personal and permanent employment relationships. Nobody's left until today. We've proved that. You referred to my previous positions in the context of parliamentary control, where I said that we need all this world that works. Of course we need him, and we want him to remain and remain, both the four thousand OAS beneficiaries and the ancillary staff. With provisions that we are bringing, we are prolonging these people's contracts and we are indeed trying to find a lasting solution which you have not found. And I will repeat that, because you say it and come here safely and speak of permanent solutions. Again we have the tool you have created - it is the creation of the previous government - the tool of ancillary staff and we can meet the needs of the system. You ask us where the four thousand recruitments are, the ones announced by the Prime Minister, while you tell us that they do not exist in the state budget. You're telling us that health expenditure is falling. The six thousand additional staff employed during the pandemic period until now were registered in the state budget? It's extra expenses, which we did as long as necessary. To date we have made almost EUR 300 million available to the National Health System. Before it was EUR 281 million and with the extra grants we are talking about almost EUR 300 million to support the National Health System. Therefore, in any case, the National Health System has been strengthened in both economic and human resources and equipment. And indeed the intensive treatment unit, which was launched yesterday by the Prime Minister and is the great donation of the Greek Parliament, is the donation of all Greeks and is an example to be imitated. Because Mr. Xanthos also spoke about consensus and said that all of us here together have to deal with the issue of pandemic, this unit actually has a symbolism, because it is the great donation of the Greek Parliament. It is, in fact, a sample of Greece that we want to have, a sample of the health system we want to have, because in two months we have actually achieved and built fifty units of intensive treatment, which had never been done in the country. As we are proud and satisfied and, of course, we understand our responsibility not only to maintain and strengthen this unit, but also to further modernise the health system, another so satisfied and proud we are the regional office of the World Health Organisation that will be opened in Greece, which is about the quality of health services. Mr. Xanthi, you know it's different from the office the World Health Organization has opened in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u217	Will another office be opened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u218	Yeah, he'll open up another office.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u219	Second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u220	Yeah. It's regional. It's not the WHO's office in Athens. You know that the World Health Organization has so-called 'Reference Centres', the 'Referring Center' and will be here a 'Regional' centre for the quality of health services. This was because, in consultation with the World Health Organisation, we brought the bill - and it was passed, it is the state law - for the IRS and we are proud of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u221	Will WHO have two offices in Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u222	Sure. We are pleased that the Office of the World Health Organisation became, because you remember very well that in 2014 you had promised special courts because we brought the World Health Organisation to Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u223	Who said that, Mr. Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Kurublis, then Minister of Health. Look at his statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u225	For whoever told you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u226	Because there were some projects through the NSRF. We didn't have time to do all the projects and they had enough money. And you used them, too, and made all these studies and all these projects for the health system that you boast of. I'll say one more thing, but I'll be sorry again, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u227	But this must be the last sadness to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u228	I would like to remind you that the Government of New Democracy in 2014 covered them with two ministerial decisions. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're the one with a law that widened the insurance cover. That bothers you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u229	Don't be exposed, because people are listening to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u230	Please. The Minister said his opinion. You can tell her, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u231	Whatever they say!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u232	Have you finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u233	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u234	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u236	Please, Mr. Skourlet. What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u237	I would also like the floor on staff and as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u238	Here, you have the floor for a minute to tell us what the staff consists of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u239	Of course, of course. There was a certain reference to something I said, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u240	Which is false. Good, tell us. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u241	Mr. Contozamani, honestly, you make me feel insecure and I imagine everyone who listens to us. It cannot be a person who has your own responsibility not to know that today hundreds of households are running to private individuals for testing, because that is necessary and cannot be served by public structures or are chasing mobile workshops from municipality to municipality. My associates who live in Petroupoli were found saying they went to Peristeri because they had to run their kids. Honestly, you can't be that far out of reality. Why are you doing this? Do you know or are you lying? From there on, I asked you something, which you obviously did not consider necessary to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Skourletis, isn't the staff finished?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u243	I am also speaking as a parliamentary representative, Mr President, and I have a right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u244	Mr Skourletis, you tell me about a personal matter and then you turn it into speaking as a parliamentary representative. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I would be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u246	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u247	I told you this: are there any vacant posts in the public health system today? Do you consider it necessary at the time and in the light of the experience of the pandemic to put forward a programme of permanent recruitment rather than subsidiary ones? All Europe today has suspended the Stability Pact. Health expenditure is not counted on the financial result and is precisely taking advantage of this situation in systems above our own, in order to build and provide reliable services. What are you doing? Wait for the breeze to finish, to close the eye again to your private friends, because that's what this is about. And all your intervention previously confirms the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u248	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u250	The Minister will take the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, I would like to accept Amendments Nos 519/15-10-2020 on the arrangements of the ELGA and 522/16-10-2020 on the EEAS and the National Transparency Authority. I would also like to put forward two legislative improvements. The first relates to corrections to prolongation and the second is an addition to the EEO, such as recruitment of subsidiary staff to public hospitals and extension of recruitment. I'm tabling them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u252	And since I am given the opportunity, I would like to tell the Minister that I too am a bone marrow donor, but it doesn't matter. For many years there has been a great deal of transplantation in Greece. Our fellow citizens in need and need have had to travel abroad for several years so that they can have a successful transplant. I believe that the initiative and donation of the "Onasis", along with the upgrading of the National Transplant Organisation, is a very great opportunity, a first-class opportunity to activate the excellent scientific potential that we have in the country, leading teachers who are organizing transplants and directors of the ESS and doctors, who can multiplely activate this process that is a bridge of life and offering life for our fellow man. I hope that what you said will prevail, that is, the understanding of everyone, so that we can have the best possible result. Of course, where there is a need - I repeat - for the pressure of a pandemic to legislate in the time unit, obviously a ratification of such a bill also comes, other provisions come, some of which may be of interest to one another. But I will agree with you that the heart of this bill is this ratification. Thank you for sitting there waiting for you to listen to me. One more thing I would like to say, which I said before and now. I do not think and do not believe that there can be any justification when it comes to timely questions or written questions and I will take care of the Ministry of Health itself in the written questions. In any case, I imagine, you don't believe that the Ministry of Health or I or the State Secretary have something in person with you. On the contrary, I would say. That's well known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, too. Mr. Contozamani, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u254	No, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u255	Let's continue with Mr. Cappato Panay from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, since today is St. Gerasimos, Paul of Kefalonia, from the Step to express the years to Gerasimians and Gerasimias, to all my fellow citizens of the earth, in Kefalonia. I would like to begin by saying that the cases of the bills that are characterised - not unfairly - are not very few and necessary. From the state to the state and reform, to higher education, to the migratory crisis and reorganisation of justice, we easily meet legislative texts that respond to problems that exist for years. In the case, therefore, of a draft health law which is being discussed at a time when the health crisis is at the top of the public agenda, the new and unprecedented conditions are being made rather obvious, with which we are faced. After all, it could not be different, since the effective functioning of public and private health service providers as a risk and the strengthening of the National Health System as a matter of urgency operate in the lasting challenges that new health reality highlights. Do we need an employment and cooperation plan for qualified nursing staff implemented with increased efficiency? Are we responding to the request for early and effective response to emergencies by prolonging the employment contracts of staff of the various specialists in the Ministry of Health? Do we take care of five hundred organic posts of doctors specializing in intensive hospitalization? Do we create three hundred organic posts of specialists in intensive hospitalization and a thousand organic places of nurses? Do we support the uninterrupted service of the beneficiaries in the context of intangible prescribing? Do we provide for the recruitment of medical, nursing and other auxiliary personnel in the context of the COVID crisis -19? Are we enabling all active contracts of secondary medical and nursing staff and all other staff of the hospitals of the National Health System, as well as primary health facilities, to be extended? Questions, ladies and gentlemen, are not rhetoric, but exist, since they are included in the draft law we are discussing today. Allow me to make a brief reference to two amendments directly relating to the Kefalonia Prefecture. The first comes from the Ministry of Rural Development and concerns our fellow citizens affected by the cyclone 'Janus', which has had a serious impact on animal and plant production. It is very important that we provide a ceiling of 100% of the insured value of their livestock or vegetable capital, at the same time as facilitating producers to pay an advance payment against the compensation they are entitled to, an intervention - breath for the farmers in our country who lost significant property after the recent catastrophic rainfall. The amendment, together with my fellow Members Zakynthos and Lefkada, is an answer to the great problem of attracting medical staff to our islands. It concerns a request for many years of the health area in Kefalonia, which is finally becoming reality, since with the qualification of our hospitals as a first-zone barren, the mobility of medical resources will be considerably facilitated. I thank my fellow Members for our cooperation and the leadership of the Ministry of Health for its positive response. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an undeniable necessity. With the introduction of regulations we are called upon to resolve a number of health issues which have become more acute with the emergence of the economic crisis. That is why I propose that we vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u257	Thank you. Mr. Spankis isn't here. He's losing his turn. Mrs. Silver Skondra has the floor. We'll have after Mr. Boutsikaki and we'll finish the process. There are two parliamentary representatives: Mr Bukokouros and Mrs Bakadima. Mrs. Scottra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have retained a word I have heard from Mr Blonde earlier, the word'recommendation'. Indeed, no one has any objections to that, my dear colleague. On the contrary, we seek it to the government. But coexistence also requires a spirit of cooperation and a spirit of goodwill. On the contrary, I was listening here today to your parliamentary representative, Mr Skourletis, and to other colleagues - not to go into names - and I saw the finger moving to the government. This, on the one hand, is tormenting the coexistence and understanding and, on the other, giving rise to questions. And I ask: has the previous government covered the organic health gaps that you are currently coming and talking to us about twenty-five thousand permanent recruitments? For five and a half years, did you do it? On the contrary, I've been the one who lived and then. For example, the Carditsa Hospital dissolved entire sections, which had to exist, by a lack of medical staff. Same in many other hospitals. The pandemic did give birth to emergencies. Were the standing and regular needs, however, fully covered? What do you want to tell us? That the ICUs covered the current needs? Were they fully and functionally staffed when you handed over? Did you hire the SYRIZA government the more than four thousand posts of nurses that our outgoing government was planning at the time? Or - do I say - have you covered these with other routine recruitments in other areas? I believe that we must be serious about this really difficult situation for public health and look beyond party purposes and bumps. Do we all understand that Greece is going through - once again in its history - an extremely critical period of multiple and multi-level challenges? Do you deny that these are crises that have an entirely external character, namely that they were not caused by our country or by our Government? Do you not realize that these crises are dynamic and not static, whose daily data is changing? Aren't we supposed to see these, highlight them and include them in the design? Can we really take advantage of this extraordinary situation to ask for permanent recruitment of staff beyond the regular needs of the public health system? Isn't that a party opportunism? Aren't you mocking ears by saying these things? I believe that serious policy is being conducted soberly. There is the main challenge that the New Democracy Government has to face, as we have been doing for eight months, an emergency situation without blowing off the public fund in the air. We know the needs and face them, especially by recognising the human shield, which is the doctors, nurses, all staff, cleaners, bankers, all those working on the front line of hospitals and health structures. And we don't just thank them. It has been heard from very responsible lips that - apart from our oral thanks and gratitude - they will also be recognised in practice in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Health is divided into three main sections. The first section concerns the ratification of the amendment of a donation contract between the Greek public, the Social Benefit Foundation "Alexandros S. Onassis" and the "Onaseusian Cardiff Center". The organisation implementing the donation contract, which has a ceiling of 70m euros, undertakes the construction of a new wing of the “One’s Cardioracy Centre” and its complete equipment, the establishment and equipment of the “Oneesian National Transmitter Centre”, the creation of a helicoway and the construction of a modern and fully renewed Paediatric Clinic specialist in cardiology and heart surgery. The second section of the draft law regulates issues of the Ministry of Health and the supervised bodies and, given the need to address emergency needs of the National Health System and to protect against the dispersion of the coronary virus, urgent arrangements are provided for to address this risk. These include a series of necessary arrangements aimed at addressing time-to-date malfunctions which were particularly felt by the occurrence of the coronary and pandemic waves, the effective functioning of public and private health service providers and the strengthening of the National Health System. It is modernised, for example, by establishing a digital prescription system, improving issues of intangible prescribing and references to the uninterrupted service of beneficiaries. Procedures for the re-issuing of long-term prescriptions and for medicines involving serious and rare diseases are specified. This is a huge section that began in March and served tens of thousands of citizens to supply their medicines without suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, the articles in this second section include a large number of other regulations which, due to a lack of time, I will not mention them. However, I will focus on strengthening the IF beds and creating five hundred organic positions of doctors specializing in intensive hospitalization. We create three hundred organic positions of specialized intensive care and a thousand organic places of nurses. All active contracts of auxiliary medical and nursing staff and any other staff of hospitals, primary health structures and supervised bodies of other hospitals shall be extended. Finally, in Part Three of the draft law, care is taken to increase public investment budget appropriations in order to implement the necessary measures to protect and strengthen public health. Ladies and gentlemen, throughout the course of addressing the effects of the global coronary pandemic, the leadership of the Ministry of Health and the government has demonstrated their seriousness in the response of emergencies and the armoring of the ESS. The question arises as to whether we understand the criticality of the circumstances by taking a responsible attitude or by finally prevailing on the part of the Opposition once again. We must stress that the proposed regulations of the bill benefit all the citizens of the country, since they provide solutions to a number of issues. And the government's main objective is to ensure the quality of health services and, of course, the necessary funding for the additional measures that are deemed necessary. That is why I think that this draft law should be passed by all of us in an indication of at least the good mood and the enthusiasm, as SYRIZA's colleague said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u259	Thank you. Mr Christopher Boutsikakis has the floor now. Immediately after that, the two Parliamentary Representatives, as we have said, will take the floor, and then the rapporteurs, if they want to make a small dentistry, make it and complete the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, Minister, today, as you all know, is the celebration of St. Artemios, it is the day that the Greek Police celebrates, the men and women of this House who are fighting every day with self-depression - night - to ensure public order and citizens' rights. It is our thought next to the heroic policemen who have fallen into their duty to protect our rights and the lives of our fellow humans. The least we owe them is gratitude to them and their families. At this point I wanted to remind the House of the last two inappropriate expressions which were heard by Mrs Kasimatis and Mr Bored the other day, and I had the feeling that the policemen were drinking freckles over time. I think you've heard him call the faces and parties from where they come from. So the Greek people judge. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL was a government that was identified as being a state of state, depreciation of private initiative, the launching of taxes and the refusal of investment. Under these circumstances and wanting a private investor to come to our country to make investments, it was impossible. Donations stayed on paper. But at this stage the New Democracy chooses another way, a path that supports the co-operation of the state with private individuals. So we speed up procedures, put an end to bureaucracy and delays. Unlock the donations, taking all the necessary measures to implement them. We did so from the outset with the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, because we are interested in providing better health services for all. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Prime Minister opened fifty new beds at the Salvation Hospital, a project that was completed in just two months, a donation of the Greek Parliament, and we must all be proud of it in this Chamber. "A permanent deposit for the health system," as the Prime Minister said. The next few months will be critical and we are fighting to raise the quality of services, the number of beds and the staff of the ERC. Today's bill is an important contribution to the upgrading of public health. It is not only the valuable donation of the Onassis Foundation to which the previous speakers referred. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have been giving solutions to the issues that have been exacerbated by her. We have now set up and set up EGE's mobile health units for the molecular controls for COVID -19, we regulate the outstanding issues of medical and nursing personnel, we modernise the framework for the administration and administration of the EEAS, we ensure the continuity of services by the family doctors of the EEAS, we provide for five hundred new organic posts of specialist doctors and we strengthen technological equipment, we ensure the application of the provisions on prescriptions with special care for intact prescribing and much more. We shield and upgrade the National Health System. It is not just the emergency situations that we have to deal with. For our Government, for the New Democracy Government, the provision of the best health services at lower cost is a first priority, because it is not a modern state without an effective national health system that is equal access to all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, health is a public good, the highest good for every human being. But it doesn't mean state. So it's enough with stateism and anachronism. Public good means good in which all Greeks, all citizens, are entitled to access. This is our priority. We do not legislate in class, legislate for everyone and above all for those who really need it, for those who cannot afford to pay private health services, for those who need the public health system more. We have received a public health in a terrible situation, with shortages of staff, infrastructure and medicines. It's not a picture that's worthy of our country. These are not the benefits that are worthy of Greeks. All of this changes without ideals. Not only do we deny private initiative, but we encourage it in every way in all areas, much less in health. To conclude, Minister, I would like to inform you that today I received a letter from the Municipality of Spetses about the end of the service of the agricultural doctor at the Polypowerful Physician of Spetses in November. You understand that its timely replacement and continued presence on the island are absolutely necessary and important for the inhabitants of the island and also for the visitors. So I have also submitted a relevant report to you, Minister, and I hope that we will help this situation so that we can meet our obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u261	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the rapporteurs. We're starting with Mrs. Apajidis from Mera25. How many minutes do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u262	Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u263	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the process. In my dentistry I will concentrate on the two amendments tabled at the end of last week, amendments totalling forty-four and eleven pages respectively. Of course, we do not see the legislative technique of the government again and the respect it does or does not have in the parliamentary procedure. Although these amendments have not been tabled at the very last moment, as the government has used to us, the fact remains that virtually part of the draft legislation being passed entered into the draft law without having undergone any public consultation or substantial treatment by the committee responsible. For the first amendment entitled 'The issues of ELGA' concerning the damage caused by acute weather phenomena and other provisions', I will not go any further. The general conclusion is that the Government is running afterward to pay for the 'broken' of the lack of prevention and, in its dear vocabulary, the implicability it lacks. Obviously, compensation has to be paid. However, once we have to think about what the underlying causes are that lead to their necessity, which makes them necessary. The third paragraph of the first article on hours of work simply confirms the Government's choice and all the working ballots it needs in order to avoid recognition of the need for the general public to have the staff necessary to respond successfully to its task. A brief comment on the two parliamentary amendments which are part of the bill, while the plenary session is under way. In Amendment No 525/93 by the Member of Parliament of Co-Population, which the Minister accepts, the need to provide incentives is recognised in order to address the great difficulty of hospitals in Kefalonia, Zakynthos and Lefkada in their efforts to attract medical staff. Hospitals in fertile and problematic areas of the second zone show the need to be classified as hospitals in the most affected zone. One wonders: What happened between then and now in order to bring these areas into degradation and inability to attract medical personnel? Did the memorial decade? That is why we shall vote 'the present'. Parliamentary Amendment No 526/94 extends the circle of persons, including the chairman of the Committee on ionizing and non-ionizing radiations related to the 5G. In particular, in addition to Professor or Coordinator of the ESR as Chairman of the Committee with his alternate, he may also be appointed Director of radiological, nuclear, radiotherapy or invasive radiation specialty. Also, the one selected as President and with the specific capacity and expertise may come from ESY hospitals, from university or military hospitals. What is the reason for this provision? Can't a professor be found toward the government? The second amendment, entitled 'Confidentiality Regulations on Coronary Dispersion, EOPY Regulations', has given rise to rightly strong reactions. With an amendment, which was out of the question of committees, but also within the weekend, the government changes the way the EEA, the largest agency in the country, was operating. The EEA will no longer have a president but commander and will effectively operate in a way that reminds the ECJ or the funds. Part of the changes is the restoration to urgent procedures of the Agency's Bureau, because it is burdened with the major party crime that it was appointed by the previous government and therefore was not automatically included in the fines. Furthermore, the wage simulation of the EEAS commander with the commander of EVA is another of the votes of the full subordination and control of the EEAS by central political authority. To say this simply, at the most critical moment of a sweeping pandemic and a crisis primarily related to health, the government is rushing to play party games with the National Health Services Agency, so that - among other things - the management of the funds is more than ever centrally responsible, with the government's know-how, the diffusion of funds, whether they relate to the 20 million SMEs or to training, the'scoles of age'. One should also ignore the past and ideological priorities of the New Democracy, so that it can be surprised by its regulation of worker representation. A representative of the employees of the EEAS should be elected by special procedure during its first participation in the management body by two thirds of the members of the Governing Board in order to participate as a member. Not having workers' voices even at the National Health Services Agency during the most critical health period is the New Democracy's first dream. What if most members of the Agency's board of directors complained about their ignorance of the progressive changes, what if five members of the board made their anger in writing by letter to the Minister of Health and requested substantial and not fragmentary changes in the health sector, the New Democracy again legislates with amendments, bringing to chaos a public body at its most critical moment and doing so with careful sensitivity - a retractor. Article 7 follows the permanent tactics of the government, that of the presence of the temporary half-block as a real solution to the one problem. ‘Support grants for subsidiary teaching work’ is signed. How right does it sound that postgraduate students and candidate doctors will now be able to get paid for the teaching work they provide? Of course, the same article states that this is because of the exceptional educational needs, not because of the government's deadly revulsion of unpaid work. In other words, because after our Memorandum of Understanding, there is not even a sufficient number of PCI members to support the teaching work of the public university with or without a coronary, the Government does not intend to solve the problem, but intends to give a pocket to graduates and doctoral students to cover the teaching work and present the problem as a result of magical midtermy reality. We are obliged to vote against this amendment for the EPP-ED Group. Since the amendments are voted on as a whole, they thus attract negative articles of this particular amendment to which we could have a positive or even a more positive attitude as a PART25. However, this happens when one legislates in the way, method and respect for the institutions that do not characterise the current government, with its arrogance, with the certainty that by self-reliance everything is automatically voted for, without consultation, without consultation in the committees, without all the unnecessary ornaments of the parliamentary procedure, in accordance with the established practice of the New Democracy. There is one problem, which cannot be solved with half the solutions and patches. It needs a comprehensive, democratic, popular solution. The problem is the rule of New Democracy, with the bankruptcy of the Greek people and the institutional subjugation that this Parliament obliges this Parliament to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u265	Mrs Athanasios does not want to take the floor. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. I have asked for the floor for my dentistry, because it was also said by Mr Kaklamanis, and we want to put us in the Ministry of Health's amendment, of course. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, we have also placed our parliamentary representative and I in my protagonist. We are voting against it on the basis of what we have put forward, because the amendment by the Ministry of Health, and also the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development - we say it for the most part, and we will not be tired of repeating it - contains various provisions, a number of articles. You want to say little bills? As you wish, say it. They are provisions which do not give us the right, even if we agree, to vote in favour of them, because, for example, in our opinion, as I have said before, specific articles are prevailing in rural development that we will vote against. So that is what is all about, while we could support, to vote in favour - I say one example - in the agricultural development amendment, what has to do with staff movements for the necessary checks they have to carry out. But it is forcing us to vote, on the basis of our own natural criteria, on the basis of the amendment tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The same is true of the amendment by the Ministry of Health. Different articles, much more that also includes both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education. We have an interministerial amendment - let me say so - which deprives us of the right, we say it and I repeat it again, some of the provisions we would like to vote on cannot be adopted. I'm going to the object. As far as the amendment from the Ministry of Health, which, of course, I have said, we shall vote against on the basis of the articles that I am going to make. Article 2. The provision for the recruitment of ancillary staff and the transfer of equivalent staff from the TMIs to health centres and, as I said, the recruitment of auxiliary staff, medical and other, to university hospitals, to AEMY, to military and goes by saying. It is, according to the government's well-known flood plan, which the huge shortages of staff faced by public health units attempts to cover them with patches, sometimes hiring staff for a few months' contracts and sometimes moving workers from already subordinated services to others. And, if you wish, this provision proves that the government is making use of the extraordinary event of the pandemic to simulate the regime of overthrowing labour relations, expansion of flexible and temporary work. We have also said so in the history of today and in previous debates in plenary, on health issues and not just on health issues, that there is an urgent need to strengthen primary health care. And if you wish, it is one of the conclusions you may all admit, but in that direction and using this entire period of time there has been no step at all. And the situation is tragic in health centers, in regional medicine, in primary health care, if you like, as a whole. The same logic applies to Article 3. With patches and staff movements you are actually trying to meet the needs - we recognize it - to health staff of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. That is why we are going to vote against this as well. I come to Article 4, for the mobile units of KOMY. When the mobile health groups were founded, we had expressed our reservations - we reminded them here - and had voted 'the present'. Now we are sadly confirmed. The government's plan - this famous flood plan - is exhausted in the fragmentary and temporary way in which the needs now exacerbated by pandemic will be met, but which, without it, are strong in terms of primary health care and the need to serve permanent full-time and full-time personnel. As far as Articles 8 to 11 are concerned, in other words the regulations on the EEA, the main issue in our opinion is that this administrative organisational change provided for in these Articles is to be matched precisely with the course of privatisation of the insurance system, particularly in the field of health benefits. This is a specified course, which has naturally matured throughout the past period by the previous governments, which one has been implemented after another by measures to zero the State funding to the insurance funds and the EEAS, reductions in the benefits and increase in employee participation, the use of the money paid by employees in the gambling of business and the health sector. And now it is a good question what they have to do with the composition of the board of directors, for example, the representatives of employers, of all the other operators, since the money comes exclusively from the workers in the EOPY, and what they might give employers are money again from the exploitation of the workers. That is why we are going to vote against these regulations. And I come to Article 7 - and I close with this, Mr President - the amendment, which we are voting against, the regulation of the Ministry of Education - we have also heard Mr Digalakis come to support when he comes to support it - for grants to subsidiary teaching staff in institutions. We say that instead of ensuring the recruitment of permanent teaching staff for institutions and dealing with the tragic deficits, the government is loading them into the new scientists. In fact, it is enthusiastic and enthusiastic to the workers to call a scholarship of 8 euros per hour that young scientists, doctors and others will receive in order to teach by living the so-called training courses in clinics and laboratories, to monitor the examinations, to correct work, to make other words the "broken" work in conditions that do not have the slightest design of how the teaching will take place and it is doubtful whether there are even minimum health protection measures. And did the Ministry, in fact, not know the requirements of the teaching of university courses throughout this period since the beginning of the pandemic? Is it now coming back to instruct postgraduate students to do what has been said before, to teach and to do all this work that will be called upon to carry out? Or does the Ministry of Education think, for example, that these are just a few teaching hours? At the same time, it ignores the volume of courses it currently needs to meet the enormous needs, not only because of the pandemic, but also the constantly reduced recruitment, the parallel pensions and the licenses it takes and the educational staff in higher education institutions. The work is well known, Mr President. At the university of evaluation and autonomy decisions are taken on the basis of what it serves and what it will serve in future the business of the department, the institution, and not if the educational needs are met. We believe that courses at universities can be carried out directly by making use of appropriate infrastructures with health measures, the recruitment of permanent teaching staff with full rights, and by living on small scales safely, with teachers and students. Students and teachers will not reconcile with the degradation of their studies and in this direction they have already given the messages in the previous period, but the next time they will be on the streets of the struggles, claiming their self-evident education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u267	Thank you. Mr. Pulas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make a few points and I will start with the two amendments that we tabled as a Change Movement. One was heavy and unhealthy for nurses and paramedical staff, and the other concerned doctors' newspapers. Mr Kontozamanis only answered one and told us that the committee set up has not yet reached its conclusion. As far as the second amendment concerning doctors is concerned, with the self-taxation of newspapers, you are well aware that there are my fellow doctors who make seven, eight, nine newspapers a month. These newspapers are added to wages and when they are taxed, they are taxed at large. You're gonna have to see it. A second point I would like to raise concerns the amendment you have brought. I shall concentrate particularly on Article 5, because no colleague in this Chamber has touched on it. It's about rapid test. It is reported that private diagnostic centers, public structures, hospitals, primary health care and EGEI have the right to do rapid test. Note that the rapid test is for epidemiological purposes, it is for us to control specific communities where there is a problem, as happened in Lesvos, who went to EGE and check on immigrants and found incidents there with COVID -19. That is what they serve. Now, giving the rapid test to make it the private lab, who protects the private, the man who goes to the private lab, whether the microbiologist will do the rapid or do the normal with the PCR? Because here there are some issues. Do you show confidence? Do you think that it will not work against the citizen? It's a matter and you need to see it again. As you did well to say that the antibody test has no right to do so, right, you did this, the rapid test if you give it to private laboratories, I believe there will be a problem with the citizens of this country. And the last thing I want to point out is that you are now also obliging the private sector, but also the hospitals and primary and the EGE to register through a specific platform on a distinct basis the results of the rapid test. That's right. I'm not saying that's not right. I'd just like to mention this. I saw on the Internet that for the purchase of a thousand tests from our country's region the cost is estimated at 80,000 euros. Five hundred forty rapid test, the cost is estimated at 8,500 euros. Differences are huge. We'll have to see that. How much will the rapid test cost in private workshops? It's a matter of that. If the PCR does 100 euros - we're saying a number - the rapid test, how much will it do? These are issues which you need to see. And one final point: you're abdicating us, because we didn't vote for the PPP on the occasion that the World Health Organization came to build a second office. Are we saying we're not in favour of evaluation? On the contrary, we told you that we were in favour of evaluation. But first, we do things right. Are we going to evaluate these structures in the form they are now, with the tiredness that all these people who have been working for six months, eight months? Are we going to evaluate them once we haven't put the same staff in order to do the same job? Can we go and assess now a fellow doctor who makes ten and eleven on-calls? Or can we go evaluate the nurses? Is it possible to talk about such things? Well, first of all, we're making the ESS. First we put people inside the OSH. And then we should go together and evaluate them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u269	Mr Marcus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would very much like to note that Joseph Goebbels would be proud of his student Mr Contozamanis. Because Joseph Goebbels said the bigger you lie, the easier it becomes believed. In this category alone, therefore, Mr Contozamani's statement that the uninsured people were insured by New Democracy can join. Now, as far as your position on "flies in your sword" is concerned, I'm very afraid that the flies, the many, have dashed your sword and you will have to sharpen it. And I have arguments. He also asked Mr Kontozamanis: 'What interests do we serve with the article on the MN?' I will reply to you: The interests of the owners of daily hospitals and, above all, two huge units are served in Corfu and Santorini. They are served, since you are basically turning them into private clinics. So I'll answer for other flies that are not bothered by your sword. Why have you not accepted our proposal for a cross-party committee to handle all these things and the loose ends so that there is no doubt about how you handle them and be clear about everyone's faces?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u271	What things?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u272	Please, Minister. Then I'll listen to you. Why do you not accept the proposal of the Presidents of the Medical Departments of the Universities, who suggest: "We have the knows how, give us the weapons..." give me to every move, which the ancient one said "... and we will be able to cover all Greece by carrying out the COVID -19 tests". That's what the Presidents of Medical Departments are proposing. Next: Why don't you let the doctors prescribe the COVID -19 test? He said: 'Because they can go to public hospitals to do so'. Excuse me, but someone can be angry when they realize that their logic is underestimated. The general blood, the simplest examination, can't the insured go to the hospitals for free? They can. Then why is general blood prescribed? Why are you not able to prescribe the COVID - 19 test, as is the case with the general blood test? Obviously, all these days we did not get too many answers, to which we have criticised. What you are bringing us today and you are surprised - not too much, because, as my colleague from Mera25 said, you are well aware that, on the eve of the evening, you are bringing amendments which sometimes have a greater volume than a bill - are the amendment, indicative of the huge clutch with which you are legislating. In the ordinary bill you have an article in which you say that the five AEMY employees, who were unemployed and did nothing, are transferred to other services by a process. And we said, good. Now, within the amendment, you legislate that new employees will be hired to AEMY as well. Here, their five existing services go to other services and you legislate to hire new ones again at AEMY? That's a cuffy orgy. And we're coming over to EPPY now. Basically, the EEAS is turning it into an ECHO. It is clear that all his central services are being abolished. In fact, the evaluation of the new commander will be carried out by the relevant parliamentary committee for public services, etc. In other words, the evaluation of the president of the EEAO from the Ministry of Health goes to the Ministry of Labour. Speaking of which, why don't you show some care for the privileged assistants who work in the welfare structures of the Ministry of Labour? We agree it's not the Department of Health. Why don't you show some care for them, too? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in a minute. Finally, I would like to make the following statement: In the whole of the bill we shall vote'residents'. A number of specific provisions, such as the Convention on the United Nations, as we said before, will be voting in favour of them, while others will vote against them. We are voting in favour of both amendments on the classification of the barren islands, as well as on the change in the properties of the President of the Committee on Individual Radioactivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the late hour, I'll be waiting to hear from my colleague. Mr Colleagues, I am generally human and political and as Minister of Health all the goodwill. I have proved that all fourteen months in trying to find a solution to your question, which, if you ask your colleagues who are former health ministers or anyone else who is trustworthy, reasonable and reasonable response, cannot be found. So the only thing I can think of now is 'the gar of sorrow gives rise to insanity'. Your problem is this: in the fundamental question that my colleague Mr Ploris has asked before, if - for example - you are the head of the Central Council of the Central Council of the KESH and Members of the SYRIZA, you can also be an adviser to me as Minister of Health, you have not been able to answer. And you couldn't answer, because no reasonable man could answer that. Because if all people would have had a elementary sense of common sense and measure, Mr Colleague, they would have resigned and facilitated the next political leadership to implement its own health policies. I do not think a priori, Mr Colleague, that everything you have done as President of the ERCF was wrong. It served a "A" policy. This policy is respected. And the majority then SYRIZA had it. He proposed that you and you were elected. In fact, Mr Colleague, you should know and know that you should have facilitated the next political leadership. Not only did you not do so, after my repeated appeals and the State Secretary to do so, but despite all the patience we have shown and respect for the institution you have come here in your attitude and your way to blackmail the position of President of the Board of Directors, before all the Greek Parliament. So you are now coming to tell me and the civil leadership of the Ministry of Health about muscles and swords. Away from me, Mr. Comrade. Repeat: Do you have anything specific to say? You should go where you need to go to the D.A. Otherwise, everyone will assume the responsibilities of those who say and then, where appropriate, be subject to control for defamation or for the spiral of the name of a colleague, etc. Understand, Mr. Comrade? Now we're going to AEMY. Do you know AEMY's KEK, Mr. Comrade? At least, it would be good when you come here as the rapporteur for a big party, such as the Party of Officers, to read the laws. You didn't see that in AEMY's KEK, which is inactive, we're doing all we can for these three people who exist in the KEK so they don't lose their place and their jobs. That is why we legislated that these people should be able to go somewhere else to the Greek public. So they don't lose their job. Anyone else would want to close the C.E.C. After all, they were appointed by the previous political leadership. He could say 'let's go home'. Didn't you get it yet? It's been a whole day and three days in the committees. Didn't you see yet that this is the AEMY KEY?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u275	Why do you hire others?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u276	Why are you interrupting me, Mr. Comrade? Mr. President, please. I don't want anyone to interrupt me when I'm talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u277	You're right. Please, just one minute to finish the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u278	Didn't you still get a hamburger after a total of four days - three in committee and one in plenary - that this is the AEMY KEK? We have the care and respect to these three people and their families not to lose their jobs. This is about them, Mr. Colleague. Is AEMY capable of hiring people? Sure. Of course. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm closing up with this. It would be a good thing if someone were to have any rhetoric on any subject, read the laws, amendments and provisions to know what we are talking about. Mr Colleague, I will ask the Ministry of Finance to carry out a legislative study on the second part of the amendment you have tabled. I have it here in front of me and I'll come back. You're coming over and over again. During this period value and truth are determined. All those who need laboratory testing whether they're PCR, or they're rapid test... Let me see the procedure, Mr Colleague, in terms of invoicing together with the provision that we have brought in so that we can check who perform rapid test and get into a platform so that we know what is negative COVID -19, what is positive COVID -19 and continue to have epidemiological control in the country. As far as the tests are concerned, I say, once again, that since the beginning of the pandemic, we have implemented a strategy that has been served by what our experts have asked for. We had a few tests at first. Only eight hundred. We've reached twenty thousand tests a day. We got first, before all the other countries rapid test. There's a focus on the algorithm of symptoms and hierarchy set by the commission to those who have to run tests. For all these fellow citizens who have to carry out a test, along with our tourists, together with our visitors, we have taken care as a country and as an organized and serious government. There was no problem throughout the summer and difficult months of the first pandemic cycle. Now science and technology come to help. How? With the ability of the World Health Organisation and the CDC to approve the rapid test that our committee says has more than 95% - 98% sensitivity and clarity. This test, like the PCR test, is free of charge to all our fellow citizens who need to test. It was in our hospitals. It is taking place in our health centers during the summer season, and it has supported all our tourism at the entrance gates and now in a hundred sixty health centers throughout the country and in Attica in such a way that our hospitals are dissociating themselves. I think every well-meaning interlocutor, however he wants to be placed, understands that. You have a certain perception and rhetoric. You tell us why you are donating the private sector, the other way you tell us why we do not allow all individuals to prescribe through the EGE and test anyone they want. This is the strategy we have chosen. It's our scientists' suggestion. It has succeeded so far. If you have another model from another country that has achieved the most, it would be good to table it with your proposals. It's your opinion. If you were in the matter, that's what you'd do. It is our view and is based on the results we have achieved so far. Nobody's left without a test. There is credibility in the National Agency for Public Health and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. In our Committee on Infectious and Epidemiologists on a transparent basis, we are informing about the positive and negative COVID -19 and the epidemiological course of the country. There is now an electronic digital map such that every region understands what is happening. I think that's understandable and obvious. If I'm gonna have to say it another hundred thousand times in the House, I'm gonna do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Jekalaya, you have the floor. Those in the Chamber are doctors. It's a problem to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u280	That's right, Mr. President. I shall speak politically as I am obliged as rapporteur for the majority, but on the other hand I will have to invoke my medical status and indeed the specificity of pneumonology. It is a happy time that most of the members present by the Prime Minister, Mr Kikilis, the former Minister of the previous government, Mr Xanthos, the minority rapporteur, are doctors. I shall refer to two things with truths. Firstly, on the issue of uninsured people and when the health coverage was first started to end with this matter from the Step of the House, the Step of the Republic. As of March 2014, the Government of New Democracy with Minister for Health, Mr Georgiadis, has been applying the exemption of uninsured persons from the payment of an emergency care fee, under certain economic conditions. I know that very well. At the time I was commander in a hospital, and every month I would bring to the board all the incidents of emergency imports to the hospital. I was asking the financial service to bring me E1 and E9. The limit was 6,000 euros. There were too many who, for various reasons, were not insured while they had financial conditions to be insured. And as you know, we overheard many who might not be so urgent. We were dealing with them as an emergency to get rid of them. With great social sensitivity. That is not right to repeat. It's a lie. I come to the second point. We in the New Democracy, in the great liberal centre-right party, have always said from the student amphitheatres that the liberal view of health is that we are in favour of the free choice of doctor and therapist from the patient, from the citizen. We said that, Mr Xanthi, 30 years ago. We're conspiracy. You remember it very well. We're coming to today. There are several voices from SYRIZA. Of course these voices are ambiguous. There seems to be no strategy. You are allegedly confused by defending the citizen who has access to a private laboratory to perform a coronary test and pays them out of his pocket. You're overreacting. You are leaving us on the right - let me be allowed - on this issue. It is clear that the National Health System is sufficient to meet every need. He's in charge for free. It's not every citizen's decision, every patient feeling that he has to take an examination. His doctor decides. We have to think rationally. Any opposite means panic. The position of the Hellenic Pulmonary Society - I speak as a pulmonary - is that many of these tests carried out in private laboratories are not reliable, are not certified. Even when they are announced as positive, they must be stated in the specific form and repeated by the reliable method of molecular biology, the PCR. Therefore, we have to deal with the world right. Along with these rapid test, I want to talk about the anti-grastim and the anti-pulmonary pulmonary vaccine. I said before, on the first issue of uninsured people, when I had been to the hospital as commander only 5% of the healthcare professionals made the anti-Greek vaccine. With a great effort, I took it to 8.5%. This year they ask us: do Prevenar, do Pneumo 23? They are the same who, while in previous years they had to do the anti-Greek did not. We all have responsibilities. Too many of the health, care and medicine systems are directing them to run through the anti-pulmonary because his cost is 65 euros. From their panic many pay it out of their pockets, while they have been covered for many years by the National Health System. Therefore, cooling, prudence, not opposition, to what we can all be united.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u281	Just, Mr Jekalaya, may I tell you that at that time in the bill, what you are saying was the rapporteur. Blonde or Mr. Zechariah, if I remember well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u282	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u283	What you say was actually adopted was done here, and then it was a proposal from my group, which we were running for. He remembers what happened, anyway, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u285	Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, thank you very much. I'll take the floor for a minute. I'll be very fast. And the previous time and today in this Chamber we see or hear the following: Who secured the uninsured or who gave them...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u287	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u288	Let go of me, please. I'll ask a question rhetoric: Who made them uninsured? The policy of the New Democracy, of all these parties - SYRIZA, Change Movement - which have ruled for so many years did not lead thousands of people, Greeks, to be uninsured? And they fight and bail against each other who gave them the right to access hospitals, health, public health, where any tests from a point and then are called upon to pay them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u289	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u290	So only mockery is what we have heard in this Chamber just now and by the rapporteur of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u291	Thank you. The debate is closed at the outset, under the terms of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Follow it from 24.9.2020 an amendment from 26.7.2018 a Donation Contract between the Greek State, the Joint Benefit Foundation called "Alexandro S. SAIS (ALEXANDER S. ONASSIS PUBLIC BENEFIT FOUNDATION), based in VADUZ by LIECHTENSTEIN, and the Onassis Foundation (NPI).), urgent arrangements to address the risk of the spread of COVID-19 and other provisions.’ We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of twenty-six articles, of four amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u292	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u293	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u294	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Follow it from 24.9.2020 to amend it from 26.7.2018 the Donation Convention between the Greek State, the Joint Benefit Foundation under the name "ALEXANTROS S. SA (ALEXANDER S. ONASSIS PUBLIC BENEFIT FOUNDATION", based in Vaduz by LIECHTENSTEIN, and the Onassis Cervical Centre (N.P.I.D.).), urgent arrangements to address the risk of dispersal of COVID -19 and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u296	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-20-S1-commons.u297	With the consent of the House at 19.03 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 21 October 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and b) the debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution, and Articles 43A and 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity.
