ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS There will be a change in the order of questions. Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras and Mr Arsenis are always here. So we begin the debate with the second under number 833/21-6-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "About the banks "Alpha Bank" and "Piraeus" of the distribution of the eclipse of the building of H.K. Tegopoulos to the workers and the Greek State". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when on 30-5-2014 "X" went bankrupt in practice. Mr. Tegopoulos Publications S.A., who published "ELEVERROTYPTIA", was found eight hundred fifty workers unemployed. Since then most of them have continued to be unemployed. Many people, as you can see, and with health problems, also with terrible difficulties in repaying loans, in the multitude of what society is facing in this period. On July 17, 2020, it was planned to end a piece of the drama, workers would receive 25% of the auctioning of the office "ELLEROTYPTIA" in Minos, about 6,500,000 euros. Among them was a disabled person with 87%, a woman for the second time cancer patient and other people who, with the money they would receive, would satisfy health costs. The Greek State, too, would receive 1.5% contributions. However, the problem starts with the SYRIZA government and Mr. Paradisepoulou who legislate on Law 4446/2015 and there changes the order for who is most entitled to the money from the auctions in the event of bankruptcy. And from where the workers and the public go, the banks go after the public and the employees. Although the law was in 2015 and applied as of January 1, 2016, there is no such clear provision that all these irrational claims of the banks will finally be stopped. What I am primarily asking and requesting is that the employees of "ELLEROTYPIA" are in the bankruptcy law that you are preparing to introduce a transitional provision that says self-evidently, that the 2015 Act, which entered into force as of January 1, 2016, applies to bankruptcys that have taken place since January 1, 2016 and not to the previous ones. Personally, I ask you to change the law anyway, so that the workers, who are self-evident, can come to an end, because they are the most vulnerable and afterward the state and the banks that are clearly more powerful and can deal with these issues. This will protect the public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u4	The Minister of Justice and MP Carditsa, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, has the floor. You have no complaint, I mentioned the whole title.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, it is a fact that the economic crisis which has troubled our country over the last ten years has not left anyone unaffected and, of course, even the business of the press. In the years that passed we saw historical newspapers shut down because of economic problems. Of course, it is also the 'Earthrotypia', which we are talking about today, and for the workers of 'Earthrotypia'. Of course, no one can be pleased with this development, which certainly does not favour pluralism and media pluralism, which in an urban democracy must act as an institutional counterweight to control the exercisers of power, and much more when the gap they leave is complemented by opportunityal leaves, serving other kinds of purposes and pursuits, most obviously self-sufficient, more hysterical. Unfortunately, however, the newspapers also fall within the same business risks as the other companies and, of course, they are aimed at the same way as the others. As for them, therefore, it is also the case for all other companies. So let us see what happens so that we can read the whole landscape and perhaps know what the possible direction we will be moving very soon. The ranking of creditors in the bankruptcy procedure is currently regulated by the provisions of Articles 154 et seq. of the Banking Code, which, as specific, prevail over the general principles of Article 975 of the Code of Civil Procedure. But they are following the cross-cutting - they are legal conditions, but I am obliged to tell them - the general prerogatives of Article 975 of the Code of Civil Procedure, more limited and adapted to the needs of bankruptcy. In particular, Article 154, which refers to the classification of the general prerogatives, has been amended - you said it earlier - by Law No.4336/2015 and by No.4446/2016. In both cases, however, the provisions do not have retroactive effect and take over bankruptcys which start after the entry into force of the amending provisions. It is noted here that the provisions of the Banking Code, as amended by Law 4446/2016, apply to bankruptcy proceedings initiated, i.e. the claim for bankruptcy is submitted after the entry into force of the above Law, i.e. 22-12-2016. In bankruptcy proceedings, however, which were already pending on that date, the provisions of the Financial Code, as they had previously been amended by Law 4446/2016, continue to apply. Even the changes that were made before by L.4336/2015 - to remember here that it was the law of the third memorandum of the then SYRIZA - ANEL government - that did not take over the bankruptcy until then. I want to submit to the Minutes, in order to be aware of both the House and obviously your own, the printing of the relevant provision of Article 154 of the Banking Code on ranking the general prerogatives, where it is clearly stated that it is valid in any case after 19 August 2015. The law is therefore clear in the case of “ELETEROTYPIA”, which went bankrupt on 30-5-2014 and the workers' demands were announced in July 2015. At the moment, I will stop to come back with most of the elements in the second reading. I can tell you that there is, from more general information, a positive, if you want, information on the outcome of certain judicial claims, but until we actually have the final result, we always keep our guard on it. I'll come back to my second speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you, Minister, for your reply. What you say, Minister, is really a reproach for the banks. You say that Alpha Bank and Piraeus, who are making the opposition, know in advance that they will lose. The law, you say, is clear. And yet they're making the arrest by possibly costing people's lives. So this cost of opposition, that some people will receive their money, perhaps after many years it can cost them life. So the morality of the banks, Alpha Bank and Piraeus Bank, is enormous. This is the conclusion of your position. In any case, I would ask you if it can be clarified once again by means of a transitional provision, if you consider it to be legally tempered, and it would be even more important, in the struggle that the two banks, Alpha Bank and Piraeus, against these workers, the eight hundred and fifty workers, who have actually been unemployed because of the industry's crisis and with many health problems, now and again, as far as some of them are concerned. So on the one hand I would like a statement of yours about the banks. How do you judge as Minister of Justice when a bank appeals against the rights guaranteed by the law of citizens, for priority in compensation against banks, as was the case at least before the SYRIZA Act? I would just like you to clarify whether you can see that a transitional provision can also be made to further strengthen the legal status and the protection of citizens, at least before 2016, and if you would see - and it is my request - the change of this SYRIZA law, so that citizens and the public can regain priority over bankruptcy, not banks and financial institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, you have referred to these people who have lost their jobs and have been in a very difficult situation and I must tell you that none of us can be pleased, none of us can be satisfied, when workers lose their jobs, even if they have been unpaid for a long time and have to claim their money through a bankruptcy procedure. For these kinds of issues - because I would like to conclude here, I would like to talk to you about the design that is currently in place by the government, about the question you have asked about how I can judge the banks, which in any case claim to defer a development - I will tell you that the exercise of legal means in a democratic country with an independent justice from anyone who is obviously subject to a reasonable fair and not something quite different. The part of morality is another case, but the issue, in essence, of legality, I think can only be judged in any other way through an existing reality that we all know. But if we want to see the big picture, I will tell you that, as in the case of "ELEVEREROTYPIA" and of workers and many other cases, all of these are issues which make the reform of our bankruptcy law more pressing than ever. For us, for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the dialogue between the Ministers responsible for drawing up a new institutional framework for debt regulation, bankruptcy and debt relief has been opened for almost the first days of the new government. I too would like to be honest in that this question you have asked, Mr Arsenis, which I personally have communicated to the relevant ministries is a pretext for further reflection and I would like to assure you that tackling overcompensation is one of the main objectives of the government. We had already planned, before the beginning of the pandemic, to start implementing a new institutional framework for debt regulation, for the bankruptcy of natural and legal persons and at the same time for debt relief in May 2020. Of course you realise that with all that has happened this time-limit, the time set on the basis of a specific planning objective is now under review. However, this new framework for the insolvency of natural legal persons, which is in the process of forming, is envisaged to replace all the individual debt adjustment instruments that exist to date. There are debt adjustment tools for the overdue households, for the protection of first residence, for the extrajudicial mechanism and, of course, through the Banking Code. It is also intended to govern overall the private debt settlement to the State - AIDE, ECA, OGA, OTA, banks and other private individuals - and includes the possibility of adjusting and restructuring debts, while respecting which the borrower will be able to save his or her assets. It includes the possibility of bankruptcy, but also the provision of a second chance for debtd borrowers who are unable to serve their debts so that they can make a new start in line with European Directive 1023/2019. It includes the possibility of bankruptcy and the provision of a second chance to natural persons, in addition to legal persons. It includes provisions for borrowers belonging to vulnerable social groups. You have also referred to people in your question who have a disability or have many and different problems. Finally, it includes provisions to identify the strategic misappropriations and, of course, to predict their consequences, because, unfortunately, there are people who, on the basis of what should be the case, should not exist in this category. This is therefore an open procedure for all stakeholders, which aims to make the necessary improvements in the institutional framework of bankruptcy, taking into account the country's international commitments and the limitations of the European Union and the European Central Bank's directives and regulations. These are issues which have been pending for a long time, perhaps because, at times, they are not clarified by legislation, either the real time or the retroactive force, and that is exactly the big issue. You know that very well, we know that too. The reality is that all this would have been solved by about a month ago because of the coronary pandemic. I would like to believe that with this work that is being done within the next period, very briefly, perhaps next month we will be able to conclude this particular legislative initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u10	The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, an integrated legislative framework for pre-contractual audit, amendments to the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors and provisions on the effective administration of justice". The first under number 8221/16-2020 topical question for the second Piraeus II cycle of Merais 25 Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The need to support professionals in school canteens" will not be discussed due to lack of competence. It will now be discussed the first under number 826/19-6-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Measures to protect agricultural income from unfair practices in the sale of agricultural products'. Mr Mavroudis Vorides will answer the timely question by the Minister for Rural Development and Food. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think we will agree that several agricultural products are sold at very low prices. I also think we will agree - because we have to agree on some issues - that some of the products are sold below the cost of production. Then again we will agree that there is no direct, direct intervention by the state in the price formation. Finally, I think we will agree that there are also harmonised practices. We have to agree to the most fundamental thing, namely whether the state is allowed to intervene in the face of excessive speculation - because speculation is legitimate - at the expense of the first link in the chain in supply, that is to say the producer. So you ask, if you intend - and with what tools - to protect the sale of agricultural products from unfair commercial practices and if it is in your knowledge - that it is reasonable to be - the recent provision of the Spanish Government - we want your position - and if you want the agreement or the disagreement with it, which prohibits the sale by the farmer of the second link under the cost of production. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are indeed raising an issue which always concerns, namely the pressure on agricultural prices and, indeed, where primary production is, agricultural production is, of course, a process which is at risk and therefore has a high degree of uncertainty. But let us make it clear, because this is a request that a section of the farmers' left in particular puts forward and I want to be very clear, clear and clear here. They are therefore making a point. I don't know if you mean the same now. I heard something. I'll talk a little bit about what you're saying. They therefore call on some to introduce a minimum guaranteed price for products, to become a price mechanism for the Ministry, to determine the cost of production of each product and to introduce such a price mechanism. I'll tell you two things here. I usually say the first one. Now I'll tell you a second. I think it is an important issue and it is worth your timely question, because it is important in the public debate to clarify matters. The first: In a single market - here we are - the minimum guaranteed price not only protects farmers' incomes, but destroys farmers' incomes and I will explain why. Let's assume we're accepting it. Minimum guaranteed price for a product is introduced. What will be the international price, the price that the trader who is interested in buying the product will be able to buy in a single market within the European Union? There you add that the European Union has trade agreements with third countries, so it is being introduced into these possibilities. What, then, are the possibilities of finding honor for the dealer? Either find a more accurate price or find a cheapest price. If, therefore, the international price is more expensive, that is, the price at which our producers could negotiate and achieve - the international price - since we will have set a minimum guaranteed price here, the competition will come to buy at the minimum guaranteed price, because that is where it will press. What are our producers doing in this case? They're losing income. But if what is concerned is the international price when it is lower, so it is assumed that the minimum guaranteed price works protectively, what will happen to our producers then? The trader will come to buy from other countries, from other traders within the single market, but also products which will be imported from third countries and will not buy our own. The minimum guaranteed price is, in any case, disastrous for the income of our producers in circumstances, I stress, a single market. And here I will tell you about a completely different issue, because sometimes references are made to the past that say 'But Baltajis did not have minimum guaranteed prices?' Yes, sir. However, this was done in a specific closed controlled environment with closed borders and not under single market conditions. If this was a measure that was decided on in the European Union as a whole and imposed on third countries, this is another debate. It could have consequences, and I'll tell you what they are in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u14	Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u15	Minister, perhaps there was a misunderstanding. In my timely and prototype, there is no mention of the three words 'guaranteed minimum price'. That's something we need to be clear about. What I ask you to tell me is the tools for protecting agricultural sales contracts. And what we are asking you to do now. We have done so since June 2019. A written contract has already been signed on the sale of agricultural products, namely cotton, since June 2019 and will be implemented this year. But let us see what the European Union itself says about written contracts. So the talk that the minimum guaranteed price is against the European Union does not benefit and disorientate. Minister, please incorporate European Directive 2019/633 by March 2021. This directive refers to the protection of the producer against unfair commercial practices. Do unfair commercial practices not reflect the producer's income? So my question is not about 'guaranteed prices' so that we can go to the level that the European Union is not allowed. Let us make it clear that what I am saying is expressly mentioned in the European directive. The European directive talks about the possibility of each Member State being compulsorily able to sell agricultural products. This will address the phenomenon of open prices. And that's what I want you to put in. That is clearly what the European directive says. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. You talked about the European Union as a whole. Do you want me to tell you on four lines what Spain has voted on? "In order not to alter the value of the feed chain, each intervening in this chain should pay to the immediately intervening precedent" - hence the entire chain, and to the relationship of the processor with the final - "a price at least identical or higher than the objective production value of the product concerned. Such accreditation shall be based on all the evidence permitted by the law.’ Also, with regard to harmonised practices, I would like to tell you, Minister, that I have two invoices at my disposal. I'm sure you've heard of this. It is not possible for the edible olive to have exactly the same price in all five counties. Last year's price - and I'm not saying it against it - was 2.10 and last year it was above it. Now, three months ago, in February 2020, the price is 0.98, while in February 2019 it was 2.20. Aren't 0.98 too much under production costs for the edible Kalamas olive? With regard to this phenomenon - and I would like you to put yourself here - the European Union sets the framework for the transposition of this directive - which I will be presenting - but you will specify this framework. And you have the possibility, Minister, to have written contracts, but also the possibility of setting the objective production costs. You also have the opportunity to establish a cooperation between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Competition Committee. As you said in this Chamber on Greekisations, the criminal provision on PDOs is not directly mentioned in the European directive, because the European directive has given you the direction, so now we must also ask you to bring this directive directly to the House, Minister, because this is a directive that incorporates and protects the producer, the first weak link, from unfair commercial practices, as the European Union itself recognises.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Red, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u17	I'll be 30 seconds, Mr. President. So the debate that we cannot legislate because it is against the European regulation, I think it is unstable. Minister, I will be anxiously awaiting your position on the European Union directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u18	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u19	The second point I wanted to make, Mr President, is that it is not right and should not be the case in this debate to raise the issue of productivity and efficiency of the cultivation method, of the farming practices that are being pursued by everyone. We will see spectacular variations from field to field on the same crop and many times in the same area. Because of diligent crop practices, you will often see doubling the efficiency of a crop. So this has to be introduced into the debate and this is an indirect response to the cost-effectiveness issue. However, we must, in fact, legally shield the trade process in the primary sector. That is why, at the moment we are talking about, we are in the process of completing the legislative process, integrating this specific Community directive, which, although it has time to incorporate it - you mentioned March, I, to tell the truth, remembered in June 2021, but let us not disagree about it - in 2021, our intention is to incorporate it directly. In fact, the procedure of this committee is also chaired by the President of the Competition Committee and is represented in the work and the Director-General for Food is productive and creatively involved on the part of our Ministry, Mrs Chrysula Papadimitriou. And what is - to put you a little bit in our debate - an important point of debate on how to integrate the directive on unfair commercial practices in the field of primary business is the process of controlling these commercial practices. In short, the main point is to what extent the producer who finds that he will be the victim of such unfair trade practices will be mentioned. One of the unfair commercial practices - and here I want to be directly responsible - is open price practice. I am making it clear that this is unfair commercial practice and is violating the rules of good trade. And to understand all those who may not be familiar with the subject of exactly what we're talking about, I'll explain right away. Today in the event of agreement on the delivery of the producer's product to the trader or processor at a later time, the producer commits - and also commits to criminal clauses many times - that he will deliver his product, but the price is open and is agreed later on. Especially in vulnerable products, such as milk, this will create an absolute dependence and bring the producer to an extremely disadvantage in trade. But in order for the market to respond, beyond what I have said, to incorporate the directive that we will do so immediately, the work of the legislative committee is complete, and so we will come to vote on it in Parliament. I also hope with your consent and you will agree to that. However, I must point out the following: a central issue is the strengthening of the producer's negotiating power in this debate. And that is why cooperatives need to be strengthened, and cooperatives need to be strengthened, and producer groups need to be strengthened, and interbranch organisations need to be strengthened. Not because interbranch organisations are intervening in price formation, but because interbranch organisations with their policy are creating prospects for the promotion and enhancement of product quality and therefore an increase in their value. It is also a central and major issue for the producer not to be at a disadvantage, so that if the prices are low, the producer may not be able to dispose of his product and not to spoil the product until it does not have it. This is about our choice to put investment projects in the Rural Development Programme which enable us to create such warehouses so that we can strengthen the negotiating position of producers. I therefore answer two points in an overall approach to this issue. Yes, there will be legal measures, but we also do a lot to strengthen the negotiating position of our producers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u20	We close with the second question under number 823-13-2020 in the first cycle of my fellow Member, Mr B2' Western Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "To put an end to the scandalous sale of the mountainous mountainous mountains of Zakynthos". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the case concerns the sale to a company called "RIMANA" of about fifteen thousand acres in the Navy of Zakynthos. But the issue is purely political. As you have said to the citizens, who rightly protested against this illegal sales, "the public is not just a part of the local society in question. If Zakynthos wants to enter the investment map, she can't kick out the only big investment that came to Zakynthos. Because here when the other potential investor sees that the Emir of Qatar came to Zakynthos and was unable to make a stanze after so many years, he slowly did not come to Zakynthos. Not only is Emir's investment lost, but anyone else was thinking about it." Your statements are impressive, Minister, when a few days ago, on 11 June 2020, the Interim Council, which says that this area never belonged to Mr Haros who sold it to this company. He requests to add four other categories to nine persons, including managers of the investor's company. He recognizes that most of the land sold never belonged to Mr. Haro. It belonged to the Monastery of Zakynthos etc., etc. The damage caused by public fraud, the Council says, amounts to 17.5m euros. You'll tell me you didn't know all of this. And yet, on August 1, 2019, the Metropolitans of Dodonis and Zakynthos came to your office, the MP of the New Democracy Mr.Akypis, three lawyers and informed you of all this, Minister, while there was a decision describing these things before you took office as Minister. So, we really want you to tell us, after all of this, what purpose you supported this investment and if you keep supporting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor. You're aware of the weakness I have and you're taking advantage of it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u23	The weakness is two-way, Mr President, you know that. I see the colors we wear today. We fit in color too. Mr Arsenis, thank you very much for the question. I want to be very simple and clear. As far as the legal development of the case is concerned, I am not interfering at all. A counsel was issued, in fact, unlike the prosecutor’s opinion, which says that investigation into the legal sale of the land in question must continue, representing interests by Qatar. It will continue the judicial process and when the Greek courts finish and come to an end and we know what has happened with this case, you will ask me again. So, as far as the judicial side is concerned, I have nothing else to say to you. The injunction says the investigation will continue. Very good, let's keep going. I will only tell you about the part you ask me if I support the investment. Mr Arsenis, please take good care of me. I am addressing you and the entire people of Zakynthos. If the Zakyns don't want the investment, I don't care at all. They want the Zakynthians not to find any of their jobs? He can't find it. They want no investment in Zakynthos? None. Whatever they want. I won't bother at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u24	Here you go, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, are you still urging the people of Zakynthos to deal with this investment you're saying? Really, because you say it's also an investment in Qatar's Emir, I have a document from the Embassy of Qatar that says it has nothing to do with this company. Finally, what are you doing? How do you do, Minister? In any case, you say that a decision has now been made. Let me remind you of the 2018 decision, which says that there are serious issues that arise and ask for further investigation, while you in your statements said that it has final decisions and that the decision has been finalised judicially. They're your statements here in the House, you're completely outdated. Now you tell us that this decision of the court is simply asking for further investigation. This decision speaks of the criminal responsibilities of the company, public officials involved in the purchase crisis, etc. He's talking about criminal responsibilities. He's not just talking about exploring. Obviously, he calls on the prosecutor to take all the necessary steps to bear those responsibilities. But he doesn't say he's for investigation. It's the Plenipotentiary Council, to the extent that it can. She is a woman who makes the decision, who fights the mafias and has blown up the house four times to others who care for these mafias. There are some public officials doing the job. Right now we know that it's fraud and you know it, and you know it, because I told you. What did Mr. Akiupis, the Member of the New Democracy, told you when August 1, 2019, along with Metropolitans and lawyers, came to you? Did he tell you that this whole case is a fraud or not? Answer me that. Did he tell you that Emir of Qatar had nothing to do with this company? No matter what, it doesn't change anything. I'm just telling you, because it's your story. You are trying to give 2.5% of our big island, Zakynthos, to a company that is totally impatient. Are these the investments you promote? Is that it? And why are you doing this? Why do you promote such investments? Why even today, after "KATHMERINI" and dozens of other newspapers, are you calling on citizens to go to the arms of these people if they want jobs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u26	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u27	First of all, Mr Arseni, I want you to follow me very carefully, because I do not like you to twist what I have said. I did not say the word 'Emir of Qatar'. I said 'Catar's interests'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u28	It's from the minutes of the House. You say 'image'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u29	I said 'Catar's interests'. But I'm talking again, so we don't waste time. My 'emic interests' are indifferent. Let that poor guy be. I don't care. There we had some land untapped for centuries and went to make an investment. The bourgeois court comes out and says the investment is legal. Now comes out of the other court that makes the criminal investigation and says a court judge, whom I do not know, nor if she is burned at home - these are yours, I am not sitting here looking at who every court, I consider them all - and she takes out a courtesy and commands the prosecutor to continue the investigation. I imagine you can make a distinction in your mind that when we tell the prosecutor to do the investigation or prosecute it does not mean that some fraud has been proven. Fraud is not established to the prosecutor. Fraud turns out in court. To tell if it's a fraud, you have to have a court ruling. What you've got is an investigation order. However, I am telling you - I leave the court, because I cannot predict nor do I want to engage nor do I care - if it is illegal, to go to jail. If it's not illegal, they should be acquitted. If some people were wronged, they would be compensated. If they weren't wronged to compensate others. I can't tell you more simply. I don't care at all. I now speak only on account of your question to the people of Zakynthos politically. You have had, Mr Zakynthians, a number of thousands of acres that some thousands of years have done nothing. Very good. A gentleman, two gentlemen, five gentlemen, and they said they wanted to do five things. You don't want them? They won't. That's the answer. You don't want roads, you don't want jobs, you don't want hotels, then we won't do anything in Zakynthos. No problem. I won't take any further care of it. I will only deal with investment that people will understand is in their own interests and want to find a job and not to starve. If Zakynthos wants to starve, let him starve. What am I supposed to do? Can I take him against him? So I don't care about this investment at all. I'm not dealing with this investment at all. I will deal with this investment again if the courts decide and when the Zakynthos come and tell me: 'Mr. Minister, we want you to help'. If they don't want to, we'll be friends. With their pleasure. Is that clear? As far as you are concerned, I have told you another time: I want you to come to the House - I honestly say this to you, you are very sympathetic to me - and tell me an investment you like. What's your proposal? Do you want to eat oak? You want us to live in caves? Do you want us to have no power? How do you want to live, sir? Of all the investments that have been made in Greece, can you show me even where you like? Say: Baby, this investment is not a sale, it does not serve interests, it is not a capitalist, it does not destroy the environment. Can you tell me one? I've been listening to you for so long, and every investment is the same. Hey, I'm sick of you, Mr. Arsenis, you and all of you who say the same. Now we want jobs, we want our economy to go ahead. If Zakynthos doesn't want to, it doesn't matter. We're going somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Statement of microfinances, financial sector arrangements and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 June 2020 to discuss the draft law at two meetings, in principle and on articles. Today's sitting will be discussed and the bill will be passed in principle. In particular, I would remind you that it has been decided that the second sitting will be next week, on Tuesday, if I remember correctly. In particular, the rapporteurs and the special speaker will be present for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes, in accordance with Rules 64, 96 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose that the parties be represented by analogy of their parliamentary power with a circle of forty speakers - the relevant list has been submitted - as follows: Twenty-two spokesmen from New Democracy, twelve from SYRIZA, three speakers from the Change Movement, two spokesmen from the JRC and one speaker from the Greek Solution and Mera25 respectively. Speaking time, as I said, will be seven minutes. On a point of order, as I have proposed, does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u32	So the rapporteur, Mr Salmas, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Four meetings were held on this draft law which we are discussing today, entitled 'Subject to the granting of microfinances, financial sector arrangements and other provisions'. There were enough of these four meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs to reach some critical conclusions on this draft law. I also said in my suggestion to the committee that this draft law belongs to the category of legislation that changes history in one area. The truth is that in the financial sector this draft law will be a milestone that changes the way in which small credit can be given to people, to entrepreneurs who are now starting, to be small businessmen who do not have access to the banking system, or to vulnerable social groups, so that they can get a small loan to do what they are planning. This is a draft law which is part of a targeted framework of policies developed by the government in order to curb the recession from which not only our country is threatened, but also the global economy because of the coronary crisis. Relaunching the economy after Lockdown is a case that has an objective degree of difficulty. That's what we all agree on. Direct and sometimes non-conventional decisions are required. It is a draft law and a classic opportunity, where political ideologies are tested less and economic models based on these ideological theories, and it is more likely that a government will decide on the basis of realism. It is an indicative draft law, both in a few cases, where the results of the applied policy resulting from this draft law will be measurable directly. The consequences will be decisive, both for the future of the country and for the citizens who will make use of this draft law. The main prerequisite - we all agree - for the slowdown of the recession is to reopen the companies which have been closed and are now thinking about whether to open up, but also to dare those who now want to start up operations, to have access to the financial system which otherwise do not have the opportunity for large institutions to be granted. This draft law also has another positive one: it shows the continuity of the state, provided that SYRIZA votes for it. What follow-up of the state? It is a draft law, which was launched by the previous government. If I am not mistaken, Mr. Drasakis and Mr. Tsakalotos had been prepared to draw up a draft law. Mr. Drasakis had ordered a study to be carried out in the NRP. Mr Tsakalotos then instructed the relevant directorates to draw up a draft law, which, in the end, for reasons I do not know was not brought by the previous government. That is where the current government began to have the political will and the draft law to come to Parliament. The torso is practically the same. That is why I said that it is important because this draft law serves the continuity of the state that the citizens want. It is not compulsory to disagree at all. It's an opportunity for the Civic Opposition to do what we've done in the past decade in the crisis. It's something that the Greek people rewarded us for. We supported draft laws on different governments. I would remind you that in the Papandreou government we supported about a hundred draft laws. Even on SYRIZA what was good we supported it. A reservation has been made by the rapporteur of the Committee on Civil Liberties on whether the bill will be passed in plenary, even after the brave changes made by the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, which has listened to and incorporated the concerns of both ours and yours. Many times they were common. This has shown that the legislative body, regardless of whether it is collapsing or opposition, should propose to the Government corrections. The government accepted them. I hope you will vote for it so that the political continuity that this draft law serves will touch and meet the realism and honesty of the country's political staff. I don't think you're gonna vote for it. No one will recall that you did not vote for it or that you voted for it. But you are obliged, after the corrections and what I have said, to support the draft law and, therefore, Minister, I believe that this draft law will benefit from the widest support of the House. And that makes it in itself an important bill. The growing demand for alternative forms of financing, ladies and gentlemen, as reflected at European level, has created the need for an institutional framework to facilitate, as I said before, micro-enterprises in the intention of funding, but also to strengthen social groups and to tackle unemployment and social exclusion. This draft law mainly comes to cover the financial gap that exists in business and mainly affects those at the start of their business activity, as one of the main problems facing their access to banking. This draft law has been based on the European Code of Good Practice for the provision of microcredits. It provides the possibility of raising funds up to EUR 25 000. It is aimed at micro-enterprises, natural persons to set up micro-enterprises. It is addressed to natural persons who are already engaged in individual business, to persons who want to train and enter the workplace, as well as persons who belong to vulnerable social groups who are both excluded from ordinary banking financing, in particular due to the inability to provide the collateral required by Union banking legislation. The draft law is structured in three parts. The first part relates to these framework regulations governing microfinance institutions. The second part concerns an amendment of provisions of existing legislation relating to the operation of credit institutions and incorporates Directives 2013/36 and 2014/59. The third part has several provisions of the Ministry of Finance aimed mainly at dealing with issues arising from the impact of the Coronary on the operation and decision-making processes of mainly public entities, but also with provisions on which the citizen can rely, such as extending the validity of the non-inclusion of the ENPI of agricultural parcels for 2020. More specifically, I will talk about the first and most important part, of microfinance institutions. The first chapter shows the purpose. It is no more than the allocation of microfinances up to EUR 25 000 to the beneficiaries I said before. The second chapter shall be defined by the Bank of Greece as a supervisory authority for the authorisation and supervision of microfinance institutions carrying out the tasks referred to in Article 4-10(1) of Article 14 as regards the control of the thresholds for the maximum amount of funding that these microfinance institutions may grant per beneficiary. In Article 18, it handles complaints of infringements only of articles falling within its competence and of the imposition of penalties. The terms and conditions for the authorisation of microfinance institutions shall be laid down, including specific requirements for the existence of initial capital, how to notify the authorisation decision and the conditions for its withdrawal. The third chapter then describes and defines the responsibilities of microfinance institutions and the beneficiaries who can access these microfinances. In addition, advisory services are required to be provided by microfinance institutions with the possibility of outsourcing them, the conditions for granting microfinance and tax relief. It follows a chapter on the transparency of terms. The standard information to be included in any advertising and marketing promotion of such microfinances shall be specified. Time is limited, so I will choose to talk about the most important ones. We said that the Bank of Greece was entrusted with supervision and control. It is clear how the permits will be granted to these institutions. Initially it was defined as the initial minimum capital at 400,000. On the way, the Minister heard all Parliament's wings and did it 250,000 euros. In addition to those deposited in cash in a credit institution's account, it must have an equivalent capital that is held outside the initial capital. There is provision for keeping a register at the Bank of Greece. It's very important. All authorised microfinance institutions will be registered. In accordance with the transitional provisions of this draft law, companies which at the time of entry into force of the law provide microfinance for their certification by the Directorate-General for Employment of the European Commission. Accounting requirements and obligations relating to compulsory control of microfinance institutions are presented. Administrative measures and administrative penalties that may be taken by a supervisory authority shall also be regulated. Very small entities have access to businesses. And the natural faces. Very small entities, we recall that they have an asset total of EUR 350,000, a net turnover of EUR 700,000 and an average employee during the period of 10 people. They must meet at least two of these criteria. There was a concern in the committee about whether the shareholders of the microfinance institutions should be inspected as a whole by the Bank of Greece. He said that he would bring in an amendment which would be relevant to this arrangement. The concern about the Bank of Greece as to whether it should be this supervisory authority, I think it has been answered. In the end, most of them agreed. Details are also laid down on how the contracts of beneficiaries are drawn up with microfinance institutions. What should be included in the contract: the amount, instalments, the repayment period which must not be less than 12 months but not more than 10 years. Even early repayment of the loan by the borrower is provided in every detail for the closure of the contract and for the compensation of the institution. I think we will be able to discuss the important other articles in this article as well. I would like to stress that this draft law makes a brave arrangement concerning the regions and municipalities exempted from this fee that they paid for in all contracts all years. It was a constant request from local government. A settlement is made. There are provisions that make it easier for citizens, such as for car charges where those who cannot have it a year in circulation, to pay the corresponding twelfth for the time they have taken out of the immobilisation, and for the ENPIA, as I said before. Thank you very much and in the debate we will say more in detail all the provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u34	The general rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis, will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law: 'The framework for granting microfinances, financial regulation and other provisions' is essentially a change in the legislative initiative undertaken by the previous government. The development of an institutional framework that regulates this extra-bank loan for either social purposes or to support newly-born entrepreneurship was part of the broader strategy to halt the consequences of the crisis, in which the Greek economy had entered, the recession caused by the combination of the international financial crisis of 2008 and the consequences of the first two fiscal adjustment programmes. Microfinance is a tool developed in third world countries by supporting poor social groups. A characteristic example is Bangladesh in the 1970s. In fact, the man, the head of mind, who arrested this idea is a well-known economist, who, in fact, succeeded and took the Nobel Prize for Peace in the coming years. More generally, therefore, this trend has prevailed in those decades and later with the deepening of the crisis and in Europe it has entered everyday life, normality, if you like, of the European Union, initially in Italy and later in other countries of Western Europe and not just in other countries of Europe. So these microfinances have been this tool, they continue to be a key issue in this case, of course, they are strengthening and providing opportunities in particular for young people and young people in various societies and stratifications. They are an instrument of intervention against social exclusion and the extreme social inequalities adopted by many international organisations over these decades. This situation rejoins the debate on the public sphere, especially after the 2008 crisis in various European economies, since, of course, Europe's unified banking system, especially at that time, began to be very rigorous. This transformation leads systemic banks to being suffocated in terms of their capital adequacy, which is why they are really unable or not willing to grant loans without guarantees. With small and medium-sized enterprises excluded from bank lending for many European economies, the state was, on the one hand, called upon to strictly regulate extra-bank lending and, on the other hand, to operate the same in direct or indirect ways in the direction of providing this really necessary liquidity. This discussion gained a special timeliness in the case of Greece, which, in particular, systemic banks were and are part of the volume of non-performing loans accumulated due to naturally the depth of the recession. The current draft law of the Government of New Democracy, like the Development Bank bill, is essentially acceptance of the SYRIZA plan, according to which reforms were necessary to restore the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises. We therefore welcome this change of attitude. However, the basic principles would be as follows: firstly, the provision of loans without guarantees on the basis of the business idea and the prospect of each business project, hence the importance of advisory services in the whole undertaking, and secondly, the strict regulation of this area, so that there is no possibility of operating microfinance institutions as areas of money laundering from economic activities. Let me now turn to points relating to and related to the articles of the draft law, since next week we will be able to analyse in detail an article - an article on all aspects, spectators and unsuccessful - of this draft law. On these points, therefore, I would say that on the specific provisions of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, we also had the opportunity for the committees to discuss this in detail. We are pleased that many of our remarks have incorporated them into the text we are about to vote on. I refer to the provisions relating to social solidarity, that is to say, social and solidarity economics. I am referring to the limits and the establishment of a microfinance institution. I am thinking of extending the legal form of microfinance institutions. But four points I would like to raise today on these points of the bill: We have also tabled an amendment to Fit and Proper's amendment, which we specifically and carefully referred to the committees, namely the need to restructure this article, that is to say, the control of administrations and shareholders in these microfinance institutions. This is, of course, positive and I think it is also a point of convergence between the parties, since, of course, we reserve to see exactly the aspects of your own amendment about 'Fit and Proper'. In our amendment, however - and here is a really burning point - control concerns participation in microfinance institutions more than 10%, while in the Ministry's 20 %. In fact, I would like to see an answer, Mr Minister, because this increase in the rate has happened. It's a crucial question. Secondly, the debate we held on microcredit interest rates is a little misleading. In the planning of the previous government, the Development Bank would be the champion of microfinance, its own programmes would give to the market the tone and would regulate an average interest rate by them. It is difficult for us today to place ourselves on the level of interest if we do not have a picture of government planning and freezing resources in this direction on your part. We would like, in other words, a comment from the Ministry on this issue, because it is reasonable and I think it will also affect the debate in general. In any case, today we are tabling an amendment to the spirit of Mr Salmas' position in the last few days and more specifically on Friday. Our proposed provision empowers the Ministry of Finance to regulate the interest rate, which can obviously be done after a careful and, if you like, a detailed study of the market and especially of its trends. Thirdly, it remains for us to answer whether you will accept the amendment we have tabled on the possibility of local authorities, the Local authorities, the Local Administrations, the Local Administrations, which so much in other European countries are actively involved in this ecosystem, which is also created, of course, by Chambers, to participate in the share capital of microfinance companies. Local development without bodies from local societies cannot be carried out, Minister. Finally, in Article 25, the Government provides an additional instrument for supporting business liquidity. There is a significant discount for the consistent taxpayers. But it is not possible, Minister, to give such important breath to those who are able to fulfil their obligations and that there is no such arrangement for those who really fail to be consistent with their tax obligations. In difficult days coming, Minister, companies facing problems in paying their tax obligations are not strategic mispaid. On the other hand, this will also be the treaty in which the vast majority of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country will be located. And now, in conclusion, I would like to make a comment on the broader picture of the Greek economy, of course, and this draft law as well. Ladies and gentlemen, when on 25 May, our President, Alexis Tsipras, presented the project "Mean Upright 2", he did so with full awareness of the criticalness of the situation for the country. All the reports of international financial institutions and investment banks for Greece predicted a deep recession and actively urged European governments and our own to spend "hot" money during the period of restrictive measures. They were asked to spend just to avoid the recession spiral that would pull European economies back or worse in 2008, to spend privilegedly on those sectors that are first affected, from the crisis, namely energy, transport and tourism. The Greek Government has been the most pitiful in this direction in relation to all other European countries and economies. The Greek Government has done everything it needs to sow insecurity in the economy and lead workers to ambiguity, uncertainty, despair. The Greek Government has granted redundancies, left small and medium-sized enterprises in their luck, and today it agrees - in addition to all logic - on the liberalisation of the auctions, when a new and large generation of red loans is in existence. The government's effort today to present the economy as ready to go into the heavenly, while Greece is about to enter the deepest recession, is really sad. I say this, Mr President, in order to make it clear what we are consenting to today, what the Democrat Opposition with today's bill is. The upcoming recession will make the need for an ecosystem with financial instruments - beyond systemic banks - more than ever. With these points, I would like to distinguish and distinguish the present attitude of the Officerial Opposition on this draft law, which was, in principle, one of ours - if you would like - a spirit, which, of course, has evolved and made a distinct difference in the issue of this bill and what is said, the facts and the future - it seems - from the Greek Government's side of the Greek economy. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that, in principle, we agree with this draft bill, but we cannot as yet again draw the attention of the Government and the Ministry responsible for all the actions that will take place in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u36	And the Bureau thanks you, Mr Mamulaki, because we are making time. So far we're going well. At 6:00 we need this room. The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the debate on this bill we should see the environment in which this debate is being held and the relevant legislative initiative has been taken. The first element is the public assumption in the House of Minister for Finance yesterday that we cannot expect resources from the Recovery Fund before the first quarter of 2021. The second is the magnitude of the recession in the Greek economy. According to ERNST & YOUNG, the decrease in gross value added will reach 9.5%, while according to the Financial Council and the OECD, the recession will reach 10% marginally. Of course, there are also more optimistic estimates, such as that of IOBE, which speaks of a recession of 5% to 9% and of the ERCF which determines it to around 7% for 2020. The third element is the situation in the real economy. According to the government, beneficiaries of coronary pandemic support are eight hundred thousand businesses and seven hundred thousand free professionals. At the same time, there are anticipated EUR 7 billion revenues by the end of the year from income tax, HISPIA to be assured, suspensions of obligations to come in less than two months and traffic charges. According to the GFCM data, three out of ten enterprises will be at risk in the next period, the lack of liquidity is the most important problem facing eight out of ten small and medium-sized enterprises, and there is a visible risk that over two hundred and fifty thousand jobs will be lost. According to the banks, the drop in turnover in the market will be around EUR 50 billion for 2020, while according to the Bank of Greece 60% of the business loans are non-performing, two out of three short-term arrangements have again been delayed within a quarter, while the level of satisfaction of business requests in their efforts to borrow from the credit system is 45%, with the Eurozone average 72%. The fourth element - and I think it is extremely important - is the effectiveness of the liquidity tools announced by the government, tools with strict banking criteria which have ruled out seven out of ten companies that had some loose ends in the past. TEPIX II approved ten thousand and fifty applications out of a hundred thousand in total, applications in the Guarantee Fund amount to more than EUR 18 billion, when the amount available in the first phase does not exceed EUR 3.5 billion. A financial gap is therefore created which, according to estimates, reaches or exceeds EUR 10 billion, which does not surprise us, since in all the research carried out by the European Central Bank in recent years Greece has consistently been placed first in the financial void, and the speed of disbursement of the amounts approved by the liquidity instruments is also required. There's still the deposit. The applications, according to the Minister of Finance yesterday, may reach the two thousand, proving that all the previous liquidity instruments have not finally reached the real economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of liquidity is a permanent problem which is afflicting the world of the market. And you don't have to be either a great analyst or an economist to understand this, since he understands it immediately when he talks to traders and businessmen, to fight people with a small shop. And this is not an abstract economic size, it is the tangible reality that makes daily operation difficult, prevents development, cancels plans and fills with anguish and today and tomorrow. If, therefore, the lack of liquidity does not need much debate in this House, as everyone admits that it is a reality, what is needed is debate, a serious analysis and appropriate action to deal with it. And unfortunately, the voices of the market world are sending out a strong signal of failure of the programmes announced by the government, but also a message of anxiety about alternative and flexible forms of funding, as well as a demonstration of sustainability. So under these conditions of acceptance, in fact, of the inefficiency of the liquidity tools announced by the government on 30 March, the draft law we are debating today on microfinance was announced, which we rushed to clarify at the outset and we repeat today that we are voting in favour of it. And we do so without any illusion that this financial instrument can restore the huge real liquidity gap that today threatens the real economy and small and medium-sized enterprises, since it can only complementaryly act. Because for us only the cry of agony of GSEVE, the SEE, the Athens Trade Association which participated in the consultation, is enough for all the bodies with whom we came in contact and are calling for the micro-credits to be applied as quickly as possible. Because we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises that have managed to stand up after ten years of crisis and five years of extermination of taxation and are at risk today. And, of course, we are pleased that the SYRIZA rapporteur has made it clear that he is voting in favour of the bill at first instance. We thought that SYRIZA's attitude was completely dubious, which on the one hand said that it was his bill and defended it, and on the other hand had some reservations about the vote on the principle, we consider it to be not so essential. Some of the concerns raised in the debate are also the supervisory role of the Bank of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of regulatory and supervisory authorities is particularly important, especially in the first steps of the new institution. It is about the credibility of the framework and whether it will ultimately be able to gain market confidence. And even though we are not talking about funding with the usual banking criteria, the government has chosen to assign this role of supervision to the Bank of Greece. And that is largely understandable, since the Bank of Greece has both the know-how and the executives and the relevant control experience, and it is also the body responsible for combating money laundering. Of course, the Bank of Greece has asked from the outset for the necessary measures to enable it to exercise this role sufficiently and effectively, and despite your different initial approach, it appears that, with the improvements you have made, Minister, the Bank of Greece will eventually be able to carry out the necessary controls with a view to preventing black money laundering and, on the other hand, the concealment of criminal elements, which may wish to infiltrate the new market that is being created. We welcome this change which allows the institution to function in a healthy manner, both in terms of the part of supervision, but also within a framework that is compatible with philosophy, and also with its targeting. But while, in the matter of supervision - and not only, I want to be fair, Minister - you are inspired by a spirit of dialogue and codecision, which I must admit is the head of the Ministry of Finance as a whole in the debate on this draft law - there is a need for discussion, consultation and correction - you do not respond to the reasonable consideration of the entry of certified companies from the European Commission's Directorate-General for Employment. What will happen, ladies and gentlemen, if certified companies after two years of having applied for authorisation are ultimately rejected while they are already active on the market? Mr Minister, two measures and two weights are being imposed, while micro-financing requires uniform treatment. Gentlemen of the Government, the Change Movement is obviously in favour of any instrument that enlarges financial infrastructure and increases in a sustainable, but also transparent way, liquidity, small businesses and vulnerable groups. The loan must not mean a financial dead end to the beneficiaries, and this applies much more to a bill which by its very nature must be of a strong social character, with the aim of supporting those excluded from the banking system, as is the first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to the bill. It is, therefore, a impression that the legislation we are discussing today had initially been excluded from the social and solidarity economy, both from the scope of potential benefits and from the scope of activities as microcredit institutions. Of course you have made a correction to this omission. It is welcome, Minister, that keystroke, in our view, is an important addition of the last moment, because it would really be incomprehensible for a bill, with a strong social dimension, not to include projects that promote the social economy, social innovation and create value for society as a whole. The draft law before us lacks the guarantee grid that ensures that credit will actually reach the highest level in the real economy, and there is no framework for allowing borrowers to pay monthly instalments so that they do not actually find themselves in an economic stalemate, which is essential if this institution is to succeed, introduced by the bill we are discussing today. In a positive direction, the change in the provision for the amount of the capital of legal persons who will deal with the provision of micro-credits after reducing the cost of establishing and operating - and thus cost reduction and cost reduction - is not, therefore, passed on to borrowers. I think that the change you have made, Minister, is very positive. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing includes several arrangements for the banking system, for which most in this Chamber - and I am sure I interpret the intentions of the majority of colleagues - they agree that it is not at the moment sufficiently consistent with the effort to bring the Greek economy up, to support entrepreneurship at a very difficult time when the banking system must play a development and a leading role in this difficult effort that has a characteristic national effort. It is more than just, it is socially necessary but also fair, that we demand that this Chamber be called upon by the banks to take up this responsibility and finally to play the development role they must play. A banking system which has been recapitalised three times is firmly and actively supported by deferred taxation, supported by EUR 12 billion in the HARAKLIS project. Banks which have so far raised almost EUR 28 billion at a negative interest rate, using the Greek government bonds guarantee, since the European Central Bank buys all Greek bonds issues, but banks which at the same time apply very strictly, I think much more than it should have been, criteria for granting loans, even those guaranteed by the Greek State. And they confirmed this inflexible attitude, during yesterday's debate we had in the House and at the same time, which easily sells loans to foreign funds and favour aggressive acquisitions of Greek businesses, which are in these portfolios with what this entails for the Greek economy. At the same time, Minister, who ensures the remuneration for securitisation managers, and banks are facilitated for the company transformation and drastic reduction of non-performing loans, without fear of losses that would require them to increase their share capital for the public. We believe that we should reintroduce the demand that there be facilities available to the liquidity conditions and to strengthen the Greek economy and business. With regard to the taxation of retroactives received by pensioners with three years' delay, and for which ADP suddenly asked for clearance a few days before the limitation, without the taxpayer being legally invited to submit further statements, we pointed out the problem in time. We have asked, Minister, for a regulation to be completely exempted from the unjust burdens of seventy thousand pensioners, who one morning saw forwards on their computer screen debit notes, surcharges and fines, the retroactive taxation of those who will be called upon to apply, when many pensioners have already paid or others have already paid off, and you should also receive provision for a longer period of repayment of the debts if you eventually insist on this provision, with which we do not agree. Finally, for the additional ETUC tax on agricultural parcels, we have long called for a complete abolition and not a suspension for a year, as this bill shows. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of the bill in principle. We are not, however, and cannot be optimistic that this framework will become fully operational. At the same time as the market is concerned and requires speed, transparency and flexibility, what you achieve is to create operators, two or more speeds with a number of malfunctions, ultimately, for businesses and the real economy, to which this liquidity must end up. We are therefore voting in favour of the bill, we are listening to the needs of the market, we recognise the importance of a flexible liquidity tool, which will support businesses after the ten-year struggle in the crisis to stand up, but we believe that you should also revise your priorities and strengthen liquidity with the tools you have available, even if you need to come into conflict with a rigid banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis, special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law on micro-loans of up to 25 thousand euros to micro-enterprises and vulnerable social groups is introduced into the House at a time when the Greek capitalist economy has entered the stage of the new recession. It is not long ago that the people's populations in the city and village, in the name of national debt and social responsibility, paid dearly the price of the last ten years of capitalist crisis, without them being responsible for saving their capital and profits, that is, to save the few and to crush the many. You supported and continue to support the banking system with ongoing recapitalisations. So today. With mathematical accuracy, their judgment is again called upon to be persecuted by themselves, that is, the known mortgages. Among these strata are the self-employed, mainly based on their personal work and a vast majority of micro-enterprises, who, before doing so, well have to move from the previous crisis and the anti-popular policies that accompanied it, are again on the edge of bankruptcy. That is why you are presenting both as government and SYRIZA and the Change Movement of the current draft law as a salvage solution in the face of the great deadlocks that have accumulated with your own responsibilities, over time all governments. If you were really interested in the small business, you would take much more substantial support measures. You deny that stubbornly. The JRC has repeatedly tabled a package of proposals here in this House - and now, in the committee's four meetings and we are reintroducing it today in plenary -, even in the form of proposals for a law limiting the problems and creating certain conditions for the survival of self-employed and small professionals, particularly in the tourism-food sector, focusing, in the retail trade for the next time, such as their reintroduction to the tax-free threshold of EUR 12 000, deleting part of the debts to banks and tax, their exemption from the payment of individual insurance contributions for the entire period of validity of measures and the crisis without any loss of pension rights, the abolition of the fee of the HRFSF payment, even 2019-2020. What do you choose? You choose a partial suspension of some of their liabilities and lending, a loan of EUR 25,000 micro-credits, which will be granted under the supervision of the Bank of Greece by public limited companies that will be constituted with features of a parallel banking system with an initial equity of 400,000 euros. You are giving a space to business groups - from mobile companies to shipping companies - to set up anonymous companies that will play a role as an official loan shark, undertaking to grant micro-loans to desperate people, just to find a way out of their ponds, to exploit the pain, anguish and the deadlocks that you are causing to the vast majority of professionals. You even grant them the right to have access to hot money from the public investment programme, the ESDP, and other Community funds. On the one hand, they will keep the small ones, who have no place to catch, and on the other hand they will rock the hot money that the European Union is advertising, the government, in the context of the expansive crisis management measures. The loan terms will be cut and sewn to the requirements of credit institutions. You do not actually receive any provision in relation to important aspects of the loan, such as the intended interest rate for which a lot of discussion is taking place here, and the unpaid procedure, and in the event of an unpaid debt, the procedures laid down in the Bank's Code of Conduct apply immediately. Is it not worth wondering why this possibility of granting loans, micro-credits to private institutions is being given? This is a carabineous gift to these businesses. In essence, you are coming to support them. And after all this, the government finds the courage to say that it replaces the scourge of toddlerism in an institutional way. Do not even deny the proposal that we have tabled to you that these funding could be channelled through state support programmes, which are suited to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises with low interest rates. But neither is that. Silence from everyone. Gentlemen of the government, indignation and anger are great. You know this and you are, in fact, trembling about the idea of a generalized tsunami of discontent and questioning the anti-grassroots policies, implemented over time by all of you, who are crushing the small ones for the sake of all sacrifices to support the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. They are those who, together with the employees and small and medium-sized farmers, have paid dearly the marble of the capitalist crisis, continue to experience in the most dramatic way the consequences of anti-grassroots policies and increased competition towards the largest capitalist enterprises. It is a light that you are struggling to shake the river of anger by measures - aspirins, to maintain the illusions for supposedly better days, to keep the discontent within the walls, not to question the system that crushes them and where you serve. You may have taken some measures because of the pandemic, such as the special purpose allowance - those who took it - inhibition of tax and insurance obligations, reduction of rents and others, only to limit the uncontrolled exacerbation of their problems, but also the possibility of possible reactions, but the problems remain and will spread over the next several years. Many micro-enterprises have already been closed because of emergency measures or the dramatic decline in economic activity, especially in the tourist regions, of course, conducive to all sectors. After all, you have turned tourism into a steam engine in the economy, as a choice of capital for infamous growth, growth for all, as you are saying. Thousands of self-employed and small professionals headed that way. Today this advantage proves to be a twofold knife for the self-employed. The JRC, of course, warned of everything that is happening today. The share that it represented in small family businesses next to the over-profits of large groups - and this with endless hours of work - became a leaf and feather in front of the lost opportunity of 2020, 2021 and goes by saying. On the one hand, strong support for business groups, loans with state guarantees, subsidies, development packages, tax exemptions and on the other hand, aspirins for young people, at least inadequate in the face of the economic consequences for the thousands of self-employed, who do not compensate for the immediate survival needs and the costs they continue to run. You're just transferring the problem to them. Thousands of self-employed, small businessmen and merchants will see their debt rising, they will find it difficult to meet their obligations in the next few months, with the prospect that there will also be new business closures, tens of thousands of young unemployed. The build-up of debts and financial obligations remains, these rigorous collection policies, electronic auctions, red loans and goes by saying. That is why, as a JRC, we rejected the logic of horizontal support measures taken by the government. The government is trying to trick the workers, giving them the impression that the capitalist system that destroys them can even save them. There is no greater lie, and even when the measures and aids concern mainly the fulfilment of the requirements of the major business groups by offering them warm money and other facilities for relaunching the economy. The government is trying to convince the self-employed and micro-professionals that the micro-credit measure solves the problem of the liquidity of micro-enterprises. However, this measure does not provide a permanent and substantial way out of the problems of the majority of the self-employed and micro-enterprises who leave the crisis with increased debts and very serious liquidity problems and with a very limited turnover. It's another measure of deceiving them to throw ashes in their eyes. You actually put them in much bigger trouble. You add them one more rocky to uncertainties, low turnovers, debt accumulation, and they go by saying. Even if these EUR 25,000 micro-loans benefit from opportunities for some professionals in some sectors, either as a reset capital or to transfer their debts backwards, the majority of them will continue to live and work in general insecurity and by paying a heavy price to survive in this chaos of growing competition. The Government systematically avoids taking a stand on the JRC’s realistic and fair proposals to relieve self - employed small traders and professionals. Indeed, you are mocking and mocking them systematically, telling them that the economy that they are asking is not able to withstand. Your main concern is clear that it is based on competitiveness, entrepreneurship and extroversion, in order to ensure relentless liquidity in business groups to find a way out of their ponding funds. Your values go that far. Religiously, you implement the requirements of both the European Union and the Greek Industrial Association for a definitive end to the large volume of dispersed personal funds, thousands of self-employed people who even characterise them as a structural problem, because they are in the way of increasing productivity as a precondition for capitalism for competitiveness and increasing the profitability of groups. That is why you want to end an hour ago, but at the lowest possible political cost and without shocks for the system you are serving. There is, of course, a strategic convergence of all urban parties. That is why you systematically resort, as in this bill, to the usual practice of sterile confrontation. In fact, in this bill, as in a number of other natural bills, regardless of the final vote which is often hypocritical, you are entirely identified. After all, this draft law was prepared by SYRIZA and gave it to the New Democracy dish. Ladies and gentlemen, the river of capitalist development cannot objectively return back to the good old days where there was the lowest capital concentration and partly a protection of micro-ownership that could ensure a relatively satisfactory income for the self-employed and their families. The proposals submitted by the JRC are necessary, timely, are immediate and are in the interest of the overwhelming majority of the self-employed. It gives them a significant breath of their dead ends. Of course, the trend towards concentration and concentration of capital is a legislative trend of capitalist production. That is why the JRC is obviously going far further, proposing a completely different path, that of the large-scale socialised production and distribution. The road through central scientific planning and by abolishing capitalist profit, can ensure to self-employed those who are fed daily and fall from one dead end to another: stable work with human hours without the backdrop of daily debts and debts, free health services, high-level education, modern infrastructures that ensure high quality of life and free time. We therefore call on the self-employed and small professionals to dismantle any illusions about a single business world. There is no single business world. Big fish eat the little one. In this respect, the thousands of self-employed must form their own alliance with the workers, together with the poor farmer and demand and claim this crisis to be paid for by the business groups that create the crises and not the usual mortgages they are themselves. They have paid enough in the previous years and the period of the memorandum and the period of growth. Now he has to pay the big capital and relieve the people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. We proceed with the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vasiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. We will start from the fact that the Greek Solution never makes a sterile opposition, wanting to offer as much as it can in resolving our country's enormous problems, national, immigration economics and of course banking. He doesn't pretend at all, like SYRIZA, that he wants to offer by opportunistically. For example, on the basis of his positions against privatisation, when he closed down the banks, he transferred all the assets of the public to the supranationals, sold our fourteen profitable airports to Fraport, IPTO to the Chinese who control it by just 24% of the shares, DESCA with the financing of the Greek banks to the Italian, Spanish and Belgian who not only have the intention to invest, but want to reduce its capital by EUR 75 million for their own benefit. In addition, the Greek Solution differs greatly from New Democracy, since it does not believe in its extreme neoliberalism, but in the mixed economy with a social person, the preservation of public benefits and strategic businesses, while all other individuals, in the national state, the change of our economic model away from the monoculture of tourism, in Europe of its citizens, and not in today's German construction, the restriction of uncontrolled globalisation, the need for a constitutional court and many others. If the drop in tourism is 75%, as the President of the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises said today, then our GDP reduction will be significantly more than 10%. The ultimate disaster! Especially with regard to our national issues, the Greek Solution believes that the policy of dismantling with Turkey must immediately be stopped, which unfortunately leads us to war, while shielding our country with increasing defence expenditure, that no one will help us anywhere, so we must rely on our own forces and finally on the declaration of EEZ before everything with Cyprus. In relation to immigration, we believe that our number one action must be to declare Greece in an emergency, in accordance with Article 78 of the Maastricht Treaty, because, in the situation where we are both geopolitically and economically threatened with an even more painful bankruptcy, we do not have the possibility of hosting nor even refugees, let alone illegal immigrants. In the bill now, Greece certainly needs alternatives to the banks that continue to rob Greeks recently with "hive down" and in the future with the "HRAKLIS" project, and they do not finance the real economy at all, such as Eurobank in which the State since 93.55% of its shares in 2013, currently has only 1,40%, through the CFS that belongs to foreigners, i.e. the Greek State has absolutely nothing. In this regard, under the ‘hive down’ ruse, which also refers to Articles 27 and 28 of the current bill, Eurobank will be divided into a good bank to which all the net assets of the original, i.e. deposits, good loans, participations, etc. will be transferred, so it will continue to speculate and be able to be sold, as well as to a poor bank that will be the listed on the Stock Exchange, which will remain the red loans and the deferred tax, which will ultimately be lost, as the previous 40 billion Greeks have lost, or the next 12 billion will be lost. Apparently, all three other big banks will imitate her if the trick succeeds. The Undersecretary, of course, replied that its action is legal, according to a recent bill. What does it mean, though, 'legitimate'? Simplifiedly, a similar law has been passed in Parliament, with the hundred and fifty - eight MPs that the government has. Nothing more and nothing less. In this context, it is certainly positive to have alternatives, such as the small credit institutions promoted by the bill. They must, however, pay particular attention to the modalities of their establishment, noting that, in fact, the State Secretary has heard many of our comments - and we thank him very much - by preparing the amendment he is adopting, as he has at least promised. However, if they do not change the possibility of financing illegal immigrants under Article 15, when they have applied for asylum and before they are approved, it is impossible to vote on it. It is something that a New Democracy Member has also stressed, along with other similar observations of our own. Fortunately, a New Democracy MEP has finally dared to say his opinion. We recall here that the bill was prepared by SYRIZA. As usual, therefore, SYRIZA was legislating and the government is implementing. For this reason, SYRIZA said today that after all, after his reservations, he would vote for the bill. In other words, the ultimate cooperation of the two parties, which are publicly pretending to be rivals, is abusing the Greeks. As we have said now, those institutions which, in the first place, operated in developing economies many years ago, in Europe, started in 1990 when, due to unemployment, many wanted to set up their own business and needed funding without having the guarantees required by the banks. In the Netherlands, the model "Agnatha" was created in France in 1989, the public utility company "ADIE", which provided ten thousand microcredits to the unemployed, while in Germany a government mandate was given in 2010 to create something like this, which in 2015 took over all these activities by a bank, Grenke Bank. Meanwhile, electronic platforms have been created - to - to be - for such loans throughout the world that we did not see anywhere in the bill, while in fact the aim was to combat tachypically, although interest in micro-loans usually exceeds 30% on average in the world. In the United States, ‘P2P LENDING’ appeared in 2006 with the creation of the Prosper platform after ‘LENDINGCLUB’. Both showed an explosive rise in years after the 2008 crisis, when there was a lack of liquidity on the market. However, they were criticised and questioned when the borrowers could not repay their loans. The 'SoFi' platform for student loans was very successful. But this is a completely different economic model. We just need to report it. There are, however, internationally many who support these companies, such as a subsidiary of the World Bank, Germany's well-known KfW, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, George Soros's development capital and many others. Finally, the number of those receiving such loans internationally was estimated to be up to a hundred to two hundred million people, the total amount of $70 billion and the companies to seventy thousand, so it seems that this is something that is reasonably under way in Greece, as usual with a delay of many decades. We must now note here that we are against loans for consumer purposes, since the conditions for their service and repayment are not created, as is the case with investment loans, especially in Greece today, where our forecasts for the future are not at all prosperous, so someone who needs to be in a better position today will certainly not be in a better position in the future. Continuing, today's bill was presented as beneficial to the tested Greek society and entrepreneurship, while when it was submitted to the consultation it had thirty articles, finally to twenty-two, since it has other provisions from 23 to 46. Evidently, then, so many articles were cut, because the government had not properly studied them. According to the definitions set out in Article 2, micro-credit relates to a maximum of EUR 25 000 and is granted only under the provisions of the draft law, and this is not something new, as small loans of up to EUR 25 000 are already provided for farmers through the European Investment Fund, in cooperation with certain banks under the PROGRESS programme, as well as the European Union Programme for Employment and Social Innovation, EASI, as we have tabled in the Minutes. In addition, some organisations offer similar micro-loans for small entrepreneurship, such as the NGO 'ACTION FINANCE', with a great deal of similar experience abroad, but in collaboration with cooperative Crete, as we submitted during the committees in the minutes, and there is also the 'MICROSTARS' of the Business and Cultural Development Centre, established by the SBBE and BSE. However, micro-credits for farmers are also provided for in Article 23 of the recent MFF since 13 April 2020. We found, however, that in a previous attempt such as this, TIERISIA was prevented, which will also be informed by this bill, so it probably works dissuasively. On the other hand, there is no limit to the interest rate, which is already too high in Greece, so it can lead to shameful gains, as is the case with the banks in our country. Because we asked about the amount of interest rate, if spread is 8% on the basis of 3%, then the monthly instalment for ten years of a EUR 25 000 loan will be EUR 354, so its total cost will be EUR 42,450, as we will deposit in the Minutes. Therefore, Mr Secretary, the interest rate must be lower, although we understand that individuals will find it difficult to accept, based on the risk they take. A further important issue is that there is no limit to the leverage of funds, and we have seen that the condition in the loan consultation up to five times the capital has been withdrawn. Unfortunately, we did not get any answer to our question why this matter happened. On the other hand, it was added that the interest rate could be zero, which refers to an Islamic bank, since there instead of the interest, consultancy services are charged, as is the case in this bill. Incidentally, we must note that micro-loans are the subject of negative criticisms internationally, because they have led many people to a debt trap, resulting in mass suicides, as we have tabled in the Minutes. A next problem is the control of microcredit companies from the Bank of Greece, that is, from a non-State institution, when it is controlled in other countries by public bodies or at all. For example, in Germany, control is carried out by BAFIN, a special state-owned company, despite the fact that the Central German Bank belongs to the German State. At the same time, while there was in the original plan the prediction that the Bank of Greece should receive a fee for the supervision it would exercise was withdrawn, which we consider paradoxical, since its cost will be high and cannot be so generous. So something else is behind it. The problem is also the non-reference of P2P lending, via an electronic platform, that is, despite Greece being an exception in Europe, noting that in England loans from such platforms reach 27%, as we tabled in the Minutes. Finally, the scope of the law should be extended, with regard to legal persons able to obtain loans. In this regard, especially because the lack of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises, where, according to BSE figures, 30% is discouraged from applying, while those who submit 15% are rejected. Regardless now of the draft law, we have asked whether there is any indication as to whether financing will be found, which is not easy because of the return of the recession and reduced market liquidity. We didn't get a reply. However, we hope that the funding from the Public Investment Programme will not be planned, as is possible with Article 22. It is not possible to finance the Public Investment Programme from education to health, except investment. Finally, we want to refer at least to Rule 26, which we did not catch up with the committee. Here: the illegal levy imposed over the years is unfair and we are seeing it here. It should be abolished, with all loans being deducted and especially red. We would like to know here if the contribution is actually paid to the public. If so, where and how to put it into the budget. We never found it. Of course we will vote against the bill for the reasons we have just mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u42	So we close the list of rapporteurs and speakers with the special speaker from Mera25, Mr Kriton Arseni. Mr Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, has then asked for the floor. We'll be on the speaker list. The ministers don't know when they want to talk. The Bureau has not been informed. And at the level of Parliamentary representatives, Mr Lebanese also spoke. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians and MPs, Mr Secretary-General, what I saw in the amendment tabled to the committee is that the government went back rapidly from a scandalous bill, which would really leave the mafias uncontrollable, even the Bank of Greece denounced, to run these companies that would be created and controlled by consumers with consumer loans. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We managed to step back to this scandalous and dangerous perspective for the Greek society after our complaints, speech after the speech. Let me remind you that until then the government said: "But everyone agrees with this bill. There is a consensus climate and it has had to change everything radically. What are you doing now? What has been left in this bill that, in fact, has the provisions relating to the supervision of shareholders, which is very essential? You're actually making small new banks. That is the essence of this bill. It's not the microfinance model we've seen elsewhere. We have loans of up to 25 000, which are not only business but also consumer. And what remains very dangerous, Mr. Undersecretary, and I do not understand why it is that you do not listen to the complaints and our own, and to organisations such as EKOIZO, such as the Greek Trade Federation, GSEW, which we are asking to avoid the risk of overcompensation by putting a cap on the final interest rate, which you committed to doing. Would you like us to bring you an amendment? We will bring you very gladly an amendment to tell you what the final cap is at the final interest rate. But you were told by the social partners too. At the same time, while we denounced you again and again, you do not mention the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of Consumers, which incapables the General Secretariat of Consumers to be able to intervene in the abusive provisions, which - to be honest - is a risk to large banks as well. Let us at least limit it to the minimum possible, in accordance with the law, of the General Secretariat for Consumers. Let's at least get this in. However, once we have consumer loans, you are not talking about the provisions of the 2010 Joint Ministerial Decision Z1/699, which incorporates the Consumer Credit Directive. So what remains in this bill, from a scandalously dangerous bill to enter a mafia and control through the debt and overcompensation of vulnerable households, is that we have a bill that remains dangerous with regard to the overcompensation of vulnerable households. In other words, the basis is insignificant. Is it insignificant why in the last Eurogroup the government committed itself to continuing "HRAKLE", a "HRAKLE" which, in the midst of the worst economic crisis Greece has ever been in since the beginning of the memoranda, what does it do? He's evicting the civilians. From where we were "home" what is happening now is that "we stay homeless" and what it does in practice is to dive their real estate, now that the market has collapsed. Any price they receive these abused funds will be lower than the terms of the "HRAKLES" - this bill, your law discredits him "HRAKLE" - is that on the basis of the provisions of "HRAKLE" you will give these funds 12,000,000, Mr. Undersecretary, which you do not give to the real economy. We see that, despite your statements, there are finally 'leaf trees'. And tell us, really, what does Mr. Stakoura's commitment to Eurogroup, the joint communiqué he signed and with his unanimous opinion, that Greece is committed to primary surpluses in 2021? When this year's deficit can exceed 10%, what does it mean to adjust more than 10%? It is a financial adjustment that has not even been made in the first memorandum. These are the huge issues we should be discussing. And we do not discuss them because you do not admit that your commitments lead to worse memorials, that your commitments lead to very tough measures since 2021 and you do not admit that we need immediate substantial economic aid measures starting from stopping the evictions, stopping the loss of 12 billion from the Greek State. And if we have 12 billion, let us go to the real economy, go to business support, start-up capital for businesses in focus and other small and medium-sized enterprises, all that is needed with a substantial reduction in contributions, with a substantial reduction in taxation and VAT, directly to businesses, to avoid economic collapse. Speaking of VAT, I would like to express our support for the JRC's amendment to reduce VAT on the islands. It is an amendment that we have tabled again and again, and unfortunately you reject it again and again, although all we are asking for is for VAT to be returned to the islands, as was the Memorandum before the Memorandum of Understanding, which has increased VAT on islands, to islands which have an unreasonable cost from transport costs, which affects all services, and which also affects the cost of living on these islands. And right now it's more critical than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u44	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, starting with today's speech, to refer to the bill at first, saying that I will not speak as a Member, but I will try, using my logic, to refer to what you as a government, as a mere citizen. One hundred and seventy-five thousand applications for loans of 28 billion euros are given 5.4 billion and banks need another 10, my Minister. The Minister for Development, Mr. Georgiadis, here, said the government had no money for guarantees. And now you come to me with another issue, on another issue, tell us that private banks can do too - we will tell you a little about them, how easy it is to make a bank in Greece, if it has another purpose, for another purpose, to earn money. With micro-loans you actually want to strengthen the economy. I wonder about the logic of a minister how it can be in the economic theory - because it is not a science in the economy anyway, it is a theory - that you will be able to rely on a loan without control - it is important that what I say - give any loan to any one to increase the production process, as in the past, Minister, loans to Thrace, if you remember, in the past, strange loans, sea-loving, without diligence and serious control, so that they can be properly invested and put into the productive process. I don't understand. You have reduced public spending as a government. You are not strengthening the primary sector. We are constantly shouting about the primary sector. It's unbelievable what's going on. We are not against loans, but we are against the philosophy of giving loans without control. Because that is how we fucked it many times, in aeronautics businesses, in carpeting companies, you were giving uncontrolled loans - not only you, but the previous ones and the previous ones - so that these investments would never be made. You give incentives for consumption, you say, Greek products. You don't give any motives. And I will tell you something very simple: I give a loan to a man, but I oblige him and, indirectly, buy Greek products. Borisov, this bad guy, forced Bulgaria, his supermarkets, 50% of the products on the shelves to be Bulgarian. He forced them, Minister, by law, to do so in Bulgaria. I tell you that the economy is not just "I give a loan", that I give an incentive to anyone who gets the money or produces wealth or can buy other products to initiate the process of the Greek economy. Another measure that Bulgaria has taken, and we have been saying this for months, has imposed controls on the setting-up of foods imported from Bulgaria, in fruit and vegetables, into various products, so that it does not import. There are ways. Bulgaria did it, and can't Greece do it? I've been telling Mr. Mitsotakis for too long, but I don't. Let's go to the articles now. Article 2: Beneficiaries of other persons belonging to vulnerable social groups, i.e. victims of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. That's what you're thinking. You're completely wrong. Instead of giving the money to the Greek man who has been fighting for twelve years, he has been through a crisis, he has financially weighed, he has paid tax his father, his mother, his uncle, his grandfather, to have this state, you come to one, who has come now - he is, he is not native - and you give him the opportunity to get money, i.e. Ibrahim, Hassan, Famitier, etc. They'll take it if I have it. Do I? I don't have one. How many people do you get from the 'window' to those who came yesterday for applying for asylum? Listen: with a request for asylum you are giving a loan to someone who can be rejected. And I say to you this: my name is Ibrahim Husseinoglu, and I take 25 grand, and in six months my asylum is rejected. I've taken 25 thousand euros, and I've sent 20 to Pakistan and I've got five left here. I can send them. You know, there are ways, because you never shut down the flow of money. We have told you from the outset: close the money sent abroad by illegal immigrants, refugees, as you will tell them. We call them illegal immigrants. You didn't do that either, and you're giving them another 25 now without control, without supervision, without diligence, for as long as the examination of their request is pending. An illegal person who has applied for asylum, and the Greek state does not state that he is legal will get the 25 grand. It's contradictory, Minister, it's contradictory, how do we do it now? People - he says - with cultural peculiarities. What does cultural peculiarity mean? You tell me what cultural peculiarity means, let me know. And I'm saying that because Mr Stournaras came out too - and I told you this when we said that this was wrong - and he talked about pushing and undoing black money. Mr Stournaras said that. We made a statement that you took out the bill in "DIAGY" that it is wrong and we are confirmed by Mr Stournaras, who is your man, that we did not vote for him. We did not vote for him as President of the Bank of Greece anymore. Let's get this straight. And he's right about us. How do you insist on such a mistake? I will also say something very simple: if I apply for asylum, I will do nothing else, Minister. You know what I'm gonna do? I'll get the 25 grand, I'll open a business, no matter whether I'm legal or illegal - asylum request, I won't be controlled by the state - I'll open a business, I'll get a VAT and I'll start working. So you won't be able to kick me out after you. And reject my asylum, since I work and have the opportunity to stay here, I'm staying here. So you're doing your best to make mistakes. And they will also take citizenship, because the New Democracy has given them the right to take citizenship here, no other party. That means replacement of the population. Article 4: Bank of Greece responsible. So we insist that we do not have Greek control, Minister. The Bank of Greece is not Greek, we all know that, at least those who want to look a little further. We insist on the same mistakes. Article 16: Do not specify whether advisory services will be provided free of charge and mandatory by those institutions. Say it, it'll be free, will it be compulsory? It must be compulsory and free of charge for us. That's it. There's no other way. Clear it up, Minister. It is, I repeat, a sloppy one - and unfortunately for you, because you are also an economic expert as far as I know - a bill. And I'm honestly saying this in a very elegant way so I won't make you any more sad. Let's go to the essentials now. Listen, you're government. You're not responsible, but I'll show you something and I don't know how much it honors the New Democracy this thing. Those who took 534 euros are required in their shop, in the window, to put this thing in. Look at it. Do you know what he says here? Listen: “... by providing the website with the description of the act. I place a minimum size A3 poster with the Union's financial contribution to a point easily visible to the public, such as entry into a building." So whoever has taken 534 euros is going to get stuck in his shop with this thing, necessarily from the law. Is that how you legislate in the government? Is that how we legislate? For 534 euros? What is it, profiling? Is that a programmed man? Eide, put it in the glass? Is that how you help people? And see that everyone's got 534 euros on this man. They're not laws. I'm telling you, honestly. Into the leg, you legislate. I don't know, if in your panic, because you're going to elections and because you've uploaded the tones with SYRIZA now, with Mr. Papa - we'll talk about this too - in your panic upstairs you're looking to find out what, do something to show you're doing. I'm going to tell you one more thing, in my opinion. You're making mistakes. I have heard the OAS commander, Minister, in the right direction, say that we will give for those who do not work in tourism, because they do not have an IKA equivalent, four months, he says, the unemployment benefit. Why are you subsidising unemployment? Make a plan and tell those businesses that absorb this world, that is to say, their hands, they go to businesses to work there and they are normally paid by the state after you give them the money. Are you subsidising unemployment or work? Because there's a chance that this man would be good at his job and the business would keep him. What's simpler? Subsidy unemployment for four months, why? You tell me. Send them to work. Maybe one of the two hundred thousand that they are, the fifty find jobs later, if they're good and the company keeps them. Here's a proposition. Don't you want any suggestions? Why does it save unemployment well? Subscribe the job. And it is worth wondering that the Minister of Government, Mr. Georgiadis, is going out again and says that Greece is borrowing, he says, lower than Italy. Now it's laughing and crying about comparisons. Italy produces wealth, children, with its distortions, but when you borrow again to survive either low-priced or high-priced - and the interest rate is not low, because it is due to our good economic policy, for other reasons, to pillows and quills. Stop saying these things, it's wrong. You're from a rural family and a rural area, Mr. President. End of trade to farmers EUR 650. Why? In 2014 you said that they would not pay a trade fee and farmers pay it again. They'll pay 650 euros this year. Why? We need the farmer and their farmer, ladies and gentlemen, to feed us. End of trade 650 euros will pay again. Why? I don't understand that. I really do not understand, because we are in favour of the people of production as a party, as a movement, as a movement, as a human being, as reasonable beings, because they will feed us. The sheet won't feed us. The farmer and the farmer and the fisherman will feed us. School scooters of 175 euros are also fired. They're paid, too. You share money in words, but if you ask the Greek citizens how many of those you promised got the money, you'll see that most of them haven't been taken, business, business, business. I did not apply for a loan in my business, Minister. Thank God, although my turnover has collapsed by 82% down, I pay my employees, I have not made any people in rotation, what you have done, but we need to get money from companies, businesses to work and move. I am telling you this because we did not go in here - and I will insist constantly - neither to cry nor to argue or to play with impressions. In the channels, they don't show us. We're used to it. A Papadakis to 'ANT1' invites us here and there to a ERT which is obliged to carry out the quota. The rest of us are fading on us. However, I cannot understand why the New Democracy of PPC had to give the outstanding debts to JP MORGAN. Why? Tell me. Why did you do that? The red loans that people cannot pay for their PPC, you transfer them to JP MORGAN. Why? What's the point? Why such good relations with GOLDMAN SACHS, with JP MORGAN? You'll tell me that's life. Okay. Let's change it a little, let's make it a little better, let's produce some wealth by ourselves, don't borrow and don't run and come back to these people who are loan sharks anyway. They make money from "air," these strange markets. Let's go to the extortion now. I feel ashamed, ladies and gentlemen, because since I've known myself - Minister, you are not one of these people - I see the parties blackmailing each other from the time of Mauritius with the intercepts of Andreas Papandreou. One writes each other, one denounces the other. Do you know what the accident is, Minister? That no resolution of the political world has been or has been imprisoned by some. We did it for the impressions. SYRIZA to the government for "NOVARTIS", a whole setup. That's what New Democracy and PASOK say. Now you're coming with a guy, Mr. Mioney, who on the Lagard list was. The man was taxing, he was known, everyone knew that, we all heard about it. A list of Lagard was there and you make this man a cleansing idol, and the other Minister talks to a guy like he knows him from the past, best friend, talks to him about buying, talking to him about shops. Do you know what they're showing? I'll tell you what. Sepsis, stink, stench, cosa nostra, mafia methods, how I put Loverdo to prison, whether I am right or wrong, or in any case to incriminate him so that I can then politically win. The political death of Loverd or Lebanese, my life. It's not like that. Have the NSA intercept what one says, what the other says, who's coming out, who's coming out with, what money he gets, where he gets it. Where are we living, guys? You know, I have a special weakness in 'NETFLIX'. I see El Chapo, Escobar. I can see them. Smile, I know, but that's exactly how Escobar watched all politicians, how he became a senator, how he watched his opponents. That thing's going on here. They're unbelievable. People hear them and say: “What are they? This is cannibalism, it's not politics." On the one hand, New Democracy speaks of Mionis and Papapapas, and on the other hand SYRIZA goes out and says "Samaras and Papastavrou", that is, who did the least. But that's no politics, no controversy. Can I tell you what's going on? For those who know the parliamentary things well, they know that if elections take place, the crime of the Pope is recorded. He's failing. Second ballot, crossed. But in the counterattack between SYRIZA and New Democracy, the voter focuses on what his party tells him, so the voters are masturbating and you're going to vote on this matter. A lifetime since I've known myself, elections are held with scandals, not with programs. Our philosophy is quite different. At some point in Greece, elections must be held on the basis of the programmes of the parties, not on the basis of scandals. I'll say something: there was the Lagard list, a flash drive in which there were people in it. In the drawer, the flash drive, forget the story. No one spoke. The logic of the parties is admirable, how they judge themselves for who is guilty. It's unbelievable. I can't see some people in here getting killed and well out on the perimeter and hugging, so that we don't fool around here, because it's embarrassing what's going on. I remember Mr. Venizelos and Mrs. Bakoyannis who on the channels was constantly on the counter. It was all right out there. Now the same thing is happening with some of you from SYRIZA and New Democracy. Why are they doing this? Politics isn't a show. Politics wants proposals. Let me tell you one more thing. A year ago, the Greek Solution from New Democracy, Mr. Lebanon, asks for evidence of how much money SYRIZA has allocated to the channels. You never gave them to us. A year with questions all the time. Why? Look, at the hanger's house, they don't talk about rope. I cannot get the gentlemen out of here and tell you about the twenty million you shared - and you did share them distorted, because you do not say where you shared them - that they did not. I remember what happened then. Here are newspapers playing national patriotics for the Prespecies' Agreement under the table to be in favour of the Prespecies Agreement. National patriotics, "Free Bora", "Free Country", I don't know what it's called. All these strange newspapers were played by patriots and received ten grand, fifteen grand, twenty grand for the promotion of the Prespecies Agreement. We're asking for them. Here's the Prespes list. I will testify to it in the Minutes of the Parliament, to see that SYRIZA used the Greek people's money for party benefit, and that's shameful. For party benefit. I would now like to say something - and I shall end, Mr President - about this three-year-old lady who took a ten-year-old child and did what she did to him. We have said that from the outset. Paedophiles, drug dealers and slave traders must have the worst sentences. We've said it. On the three-year-old sadly and curiously, for a week or ten days, some people hid it, and today, because the prosecutor took the decision, we made her public. She took a ten-year-old child, an innocent soul, and raped him and gave him drugs. Tell me what reasonable man - we have children and grandchildren most here - will be so elastic in the sentence that he could bring justice to this woman. What do we say? I'll say it one more time. In such beasts, only life is worth it, never to come out again, because for me the death penalty is worth it, but even life is worth it never again. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of all the means, nobody said who she was. Why? I was wondering. If it was a Greek, they'd all show him, and he'd be fine. Shame on you. I would now like us to go to serious issues. I have in front of me the statement that sticks to 'global', my dear Minister, in your government. Ioannis Kapodistrias: "A victory will be ours if it reigns in our hearts only the Greek. The friend of the strangers is a traitor". Stop listening to the Americans about the AOZ. Stop listening to your fear of EOZ. Make EEZ with Cyprus end the story. Do not put forward my front graphics teachers, peculiar guys who come out and say a lot of nonsense that there is an influence reduced under International Law. There isn't. Don't do that. It's a crime. I am curiously listening to Hatzidakis, Bakoyannis and many others from New Democracy talking about less influence and less influence in Kastelorizo and Crete. I also hear Mrs Bakoyannis say that SYRIZA and the Change Movement have agreed on this, Mr Loverdo. I want you to tell me whether you have agreed on a reduced influence on Kastelorizo and Crete, the three "large", as Mrs Bakoyannis, the Change Movement, SYRIZA and the New Democracy, believes, in this matter, that she will accept a reduced influence on Kastelorizo on the Change Movement or SYRIZA. Will you accept it? 'This is why' - you say - 'we meet with the rest of us, because the three major agreed'. She said, there's a statement from her on a television station. I want SYRIZA and the Change Movement to tell me if you agree. Hatzidakis said the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u46	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u47	Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u48	There's nothing like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u49	Officially, he said you'd found it. I do not believe that you have found them, but they must publicly and directly say the PASOK and the Change Movement that they did not agree on anything like that. We want you to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u50	We call it straight away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u51	I am also listening to the Foreign Minister and he says 'if Turkey likes the agreement with Italy, we should go the same way', that is, with reduced influence. This is his statement to negotiate with Turkey. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] What should I negotiate? What if my house, the plot, has it a reduced property influence? Guys, listen, things are hard. Let us get a little serious and make fewer statements. It's a global prototype to talk about reduced ooz effect. There's nowhere in the world anywhere! And if the Prime Minister wants to make the partial delimitation, Egyptian journalists say they proposed 2% EEZ in Kastelorizo, 1% in Rhodes, 10% in Karpathos, 20% in Crete and not to deny that Greece proposed these percentages in Egypt. And Mr. Dendias doesn't come out to disprove it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Egypt's official papers were released and confirmed. And Greece doesn't come out to disprove it, it doesn't come out to say that this thing doesn't apply. I'm telling you, it's a disgrace to what's going on. And I will give you an example, because they say that we are a small country and that we must negotiate with the powerful Turks. We're not a small country. We are a strong country, ladies and gentlemen. If the political system united understands it and believes it, we are a strong country, much stronger than you imagine. And always in history, Greece was a small country with a few warriors, but it won the victories. We should understand that. Ecuador 1970. It is the country, a small country, which has contributed to making the EEZ internationally a reality. The Ecuador! Do you know what it worked for? To punish the United States for illegal fishing. The Ecuador! He punished, fined the US state in Ecuador for illegal fishing. And to close, I want to say here that we need to understand that there are no friends. Did you see what the Palestinians do to us? There are no friendships with either Russia or with America or with Germany or Turkey or with Egypt. There are only interests. We have to understand that we've been alone, which I've been saying for months. We'll be alone, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the New Democracy, gentlemen of the PASOK, gentlemen of the Change Movement, of the JRC, of Mera25! We may disagree on many things, but if anything happens - which no one wishes - we will be completely alone. That's why we have to be united in what's coming, because it's been difficult days, really hard days. Of course, the proof is that the Greek Solution has come seriously into Parliament to table proposals. And I am closing down - and I apologise for the abuse of time, Mr President - with this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, twelve people, scientists, from the Greek Solution - Mr Levane, I want you to listen a little - have prepared a premeditated study to get the illegal immigrants to the uninhabited islands. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. It is an entire premeditated study of how we can take illegal immigrants to the uninhabited islands and not to mainland Greece. I will testify to it in the Minutes for the Prime Minister to take it and start it from yesterday, so that these people can leave and not be on the Greek islands, but on the mainland, and go to the uninhabited islands. And there are places where they can get in. The premeditation is here. There are five other similar things that we can testify to to get away from and get rid of the Greeks. But they're going there to leave in a month. Transit will go, not sit there forever. They'll get out of there because Greece can't feed more. And I'm going to say something to the left, to the good and chosen friends: Expenditure on a new CYPD by Mr. Mitarakis. He's asking for 133m euros to make a new HPT. This is the Ministry's document. He's asking for 133 million euros! Where does he ask for them? Not from the European Union, but from the Greek state budget, gentlemen of the New Democracy! So I put it in the Minutes of this House that we should not mock people that Europeans or NGOs pay for illegal immigrants. The Greek state pays! The Greek Solution can only make five similar units of EUR 60 million for sixty thousand illegal immigrants. There's the study! I'll testify to her in the Minutes. And the French thinker Paul Virilio says: 'There is a propaganda in favour of progress that conceals the damage caused by progress'. That's what's happening! Progress is to be with the illegal immigrants, with the refugees, with the immigrants, as everyone says them, progress is to forget the history, language, culture, forgetting that nature law, ladies and gentlemen, says that progress is anything, as long as it is maintained. If you don't have maintenance, there's no progress. Understand that, because I see your means here, I have the editors' newspaper - and I am ashamed. There they are! I read to you how journalists write the news: "He was arrested and interrogated forty-year-old who allegedly claimed to have had sex with the elderly." He raped and robbed eighty-five years old woman and the "Editors' Newspaper" wrote this! To understand, she was a rapist, she was arrested for drugs, she had not been deported, and yet this writes "efsyn.gr". Another article: "Britania: With psychological problems the twenty-five-year-old who killed three people with a knife". If, however, he was an English who killed others, you would say he is a racist. He's crazy. This is how journalism serves false deceptions rather than reality. And that's what bothers me, so some people know what a journalistic function means and what it really means 'I'm doing my job'. And I will tell the JRC's partner, who honours me in his presence, that, if I am not mistaken, Karl Marx had said something very appropriate: "The economic migrants, the Trojan horse of capital, for abundance of labour conquests." That's what Carl Marx said, not Velopoulos, not the late liberal minister of the New Democracy. Because he's a liberal, he's a negotiator anyway, he's selling it all out. We have another logic. And I'll tell you now what our logic is and I'll close with it. Angelos Sicilyanos: "The idea of the nation within us must reinstate its original, deepest Greek version as a society in the depth of homogeneous people, associated with the same soil, with the same language and the same distant historical struggles". This is why we are fighting, for a Greek, for a Greece where there will be Greeks, for a Greece that says "First Greece, first Greeks"! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u52	The Foreign Minister, George Zavvos, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, while remaining consistent in its commitments, has brought the microfinance framework to a debate and vote. I would like to make a small regression in history, but also in the context. A well-known point is that in December 2006 the Nobel Prize Commission awarded this great honour to Dr. Yunus for a truly great project that had been implemented in undeveloped societies by taking a large part of the population out of poverty and allowing access to lending. In the European context, particularly in a Europe which has been hit by two resounding crises, the crisis in the euro area and the most recent crisis, there is already an experience which has already been reflected in the code on the functioning of microcredits, but also an experience of applied practices in several Member States of the European Union. In fact, I would say that at Greek level there is also a political and administrative follow-up with this bill, in which we are already detecting the first ideas to the government in 2013. The previous government discussed it and brought it into consultation, and we bring it to the House. At the same time, I am talking about administrative continuity, since the same agencies that worked at the time continued operating and working out the bill and now. We know, Mr President, that crises, particularly the latter, are mainly affecting social capital, human, economic and natural, and it is something that we should maintain as an eye daughter. This is a critical and important mass, and that is why I think we need to react, we need to think, we need to draw up new financial instruments, so that we can find answers to the unprecedented reclassifications, I would say in the turbulence of the structures which it refers to and the need for the primary functioning of the policy, namely the need to establish a new social contract based on the dynamics of the three known pillars, the state, the private sector and society. It is in this context that the government's proposal for the microfinance bill is also part of this dynamic framework that is looking at in the future. This is a bill that we have seen in the discussions that have taken place over the last few days that have applauded the great majority of the social actors, who require it almost directly. We are also pleased to welcome the great convergence of views, the source and real exchange of views among the majority of the parties, where you have seen an open government, a government that listens, which consults and improves, together with all the common wisdom, this bill, a bill that comes to give liquidity to those who do not have access to the banking system and to all those who are troublesome and troublesome, that is, to the vulnerable groups of the population who would like to start a business, such as the student or woman. It is not a bill that creates a new tool for subsidies. On the contrary, it is a bill that helps create new jobs, giving a breath of liquidity. I would like to sum up the broad lines of the bill. Firstly, his innovative features. I refer to two: In the case of microfinance, no safeguards are attributed. Secondly, advisory services are given together. What do we want to avoid? What are the locks? It is a system that is not going to create and we do not want to create a new source of malpractices nor to give the possibility, as various people have said, to infiltrate the market on the pretext of microfinance. There is a search for an equilibrium point in which we will have, on the one hand, a flexible shape, on the other hand, a shape that ensures strict control. How will this strict control be ensured? Five points. Firstly, authorisation and supervision is carried out by the Bank of Greece, for the reasons set out above. The second key point is the full application of the laundry rules, to which I shall come back. Thirdly, there are full transparency rules imposed on providers, so that there is clarity and clarity as to the cost of the charges. Fourthly, there is just one corporate governance structure. Fifthly, the consumer rules apply. I would like to end only two points, which deserve greater explanation. How does wash control apply? Firstly, there is the existence of control procedures for authorisation. Secondly, there is the possibility of withdrawing the licence if the institution is used as a rinsing agent. Thirdly, we amended Law 4557/2018 to make the microfinance institutions liable. Fourthly, we have made legislative improvements so that the supervision of the Bank of Greece is much clearer. Now, what is there for corporate governance? Firstly, the two persons designated as responsible for respecting the institution's strategy have appropriate qualifications. Secondly, there is a clear organisational structure. Thirdly, the institution must have a business plan. Fourthly, there are adequate internal control mechanisms. Fifthly, microfinance institutions shall check, before each type of financing is granted, whether the purpose is respected. There is, as mentioned above, the possibility for microfinance institutions to participate in microfinance programmes with a contribution from the national or co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. As we have said, the government has, in fact, made a number of amendments. What are these? Firstly, we have enabled microfinance institutions to operate as capital and also as special urban companies to allow more institutions to enter this operation. We have reduced the initial capital from EUR 400,000 to EUR 250,000. We have added to the beneficiaries, who can receive microfinance, the social and mutual economic institutions. Fourthly, we have committed ourselves to presenting an annual report to Parliament so that you can assess the operating framework and propose, if you like, improvements. An important issue, which you remember - I called the National Representation again - is the issue of the interest limit. We have some ideas, but we are still waiting for you to come up with some specific ideas. For example, would you like to take Euribor as a benchmark, which is negative today and say plus 10? So, should we put a wall like that? I'm making an idea that we can talk about. However, we want real and concrete proposals on this. Mr President, I would like to refer to two comments made by previous Members. Firstly, the transitional provisions. I think Mr Katrinis made these remarks. What happens then? We provide that companies that have already received certification from the European Code, namely the European Union, and are currently active through banks in microfinance, can be operated for two years as microfinance institutions without authorisation, but with notification and registration of the relevant registries of the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Development. Why? Because we have responded to the concerns expressed in the debate by the Committee on Economic Affairs and we have a legislative improvement in order to ensure that: Firstly, this transitional provision relates to companies which have already been based in Greece. Secondly, these companies should pay the planned initial capital. So there will be at least one control of resources from the outset and this relationship will begin. The second point raised by the previous speakers concerns the possibility of controlling special groups, for example migrants, especially illegal people, etc. In this regard, I have to note: Firstly, microfinance institutions are not obliged to grant microfinance to anyone who requests. They must assess every request. Secondly, when implementing public policies, the beneficiaries, i.e. applicants, are designated by a joint ministerial decision. Furthermore, the legislation, as you know, provides for who is vulnerable. In any case, Mr President, there is a solid grid of provisions to control money laundering, especially for NGOs, and we hope, in July, that we table the bill on the incorporation of the fifth money laundering directive, where there are safeguards, in order to prevent the use of NGOs as vehicles for money laundering or terrorist financing. We do not think there should be any doubt about these provisions. I would like here to respond to a number of comments by Mr Mamulakis, the rapporteur for Civilian Representation, on the one hand, concerning food and pro-persons. I mean why we're putting the 20% limit on it. As you know, in banking law the limit is usually 25%, but that's where we're talking about banks. There are limits on qualified majority voting 33, 50 etc. We considered it advisable that a precisely central control point could be given to the issues when we reached the 20% rate. For the interest rates that you have spoken about, I told you that we are still waiting for specific provisions, because as you will remember well in the bill that you had drawn up in the consultation, there is no specific, if you like, an indication of interest rate. So if there's anyone in here, we're ready to talk about it. The third concerns the possibility of participating in the provision of funding to local and regional authorities. There too, if you wish, we are making an important enlargement move, where we say yes, but provided that they are only 40%. From that point on, there should be private cofinancing. Mr President, I think that, with this important and substantial debate, the government brings, after the 'HRAKLE' voted last year, an important draft law, which we negotiated and adopted. It's working completely right now. There is a very important possibility in the medium term of reducing red loans, i.e. the most toxic problem in the Greek economy. Different statements have been made on the 'ERAKLI' guarantee. I would remind the Members who were here and in the vote on the bill again that it is not a question of funding. It's a guarantee. In other words, a guarantee that the banks themselves pay, as they would pay to any individual. Secondly, we are bringing the financing bill at the moment, which gives the social sensitivity mark of the government, especially at this juncture. Thirdly, in the next few days the government will bring the corporate governance bill so that phenomena such as FOLLI-FOLLIE do not appear again. Because, as we have said, we want to shield the Greek financial system from such phenomena, so that, on the one hand, the investing citizen and, on the other, the foreign investors can be sure of their investments. Fourth point I mentioned before is that, in July, we hope, we will also bring the money laundering bill, which modernises this framework with the best European legislation. Mr President, within a year the government has done much more in the banking sector than it has promised. Despite this important crisis, we have shown that we are capable of meeting the major challenges, I would say, in institutional and structural challenges. We know that everything can't be solved by magic. We are insisting, if you like, on the pressure in the banking sector at this critical moment to be able to play its role as a genuine channel of financing in the real economy, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in enterprises and in households. Most of all, however, I would like to tell you that our policies are fully coordinate with the major axes that are currently being deleted in the European Union, both for the completion of the European banking union and for the completion of the European capital markets. Fortunately this time, in this crisis, the European Union has shown that it is capable of mobilising all those monetary funding mechanisms from the European Central Bank. You know that the Prime Minister's personal achievement was to enable Greek banks and bonds to obtain funding. Secondly, there is with the Recovery Fund, if you want, the Recovery Fund, the possibility of very important, quasi-equity funding that enables major economic and social transformations, which we should fully exploit. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Katsafada has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the horn pandemic that affects the world community has not only led to an unprecedented health crisis, which counts hundreds of thousands of victims all over the world, but also to the biggest economic recession since World War II. I fear that some in this Chamber are trying to present the recession that the Greek economy will face as a Greek problem or that the recession that the Greek economy will face will be the result of the moves made by the Greek Government. For example, on the scale of the recession, which we will face at global level and the depth of this recession, I will mention the statement by the President of the European Bank, Christine Lagard, which speaks of the greatest and deepest recession that Europe will face after World War II. As far as the first part of health management is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the government has taken it perfectly. This bears witness to the numbers, this bears witness to the effort and credit taken by the country, not only within the borders of the country but also outside, which is very important. An effort we have to say is based on the state's cooperation with health factors, with society. It is an attempt that still continues today, because we must not overlook that the coronary pandemic is something that we continue to face. But what concerns the economic crisis that is the result of this pandemic I would like to highlight the high reflexes which the government has shown in this area too. So the government, and its financial staff, did a double struggle. He tried what has to do with the European Union and what it has to do with the European institutions to highlight the need for strengthening that the economies of the Member States of the European Union should have through this serious crisis that will be created. And indeed, with the credibility we've gained, we've managed to raise our country's points. Indeed, with the efforts of the Greek Prime Minister, we have succeeded and gained much more than we are. But what it has to do with the institutions and the European Union, and that is where we can recognise the successes of the Greek Government. But we have not only been there, ladies and gentlemen. Our primary concern was to stimulate the Greek economy, everyday life, to support businesses and workers. At the very first moment, there have been measures taken by this government to assist firms and also jobs. I can talk about too much. To speak, for example, about the repayable advance. I should like to speak, for example, about the aid we have had to the workers and the free traders. I can talk about transferring all obligations and suspending obligations, about insurance funds and tax obligations. I should like to speak if you want, finally, and finally, on the 'Cooperation' programme which we have seen since Lockdown and which we are trying to strengthen jobs. So all these initiatives that the government has taken are today's bill. It is a bill that his discussion, his effort to create microcredit institutions had begun since 2013, recognising the problem of the country's banking system and the real need to get warm money into the real economy. So since 2013, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has begun. The previous government, the SYRIZA government, proceeded to this debate. But today we are coming to implement a very important initiative. I am really glad that there is, in this Chamber - unfortunately, a consensus and a consensus on the realism and reality that we are facing. You know, this government has another feature that has its ears openly in society. It is humiliated and perceived by the problems that exist around business and the economy. One key problem, ladies and gentlemen, is the lack of liquidity from a banking system that works too strictly against those who are asking for funding, those who need funding to be able to create new ones or support existing businesses. And in this way, ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing? We're not only strengthening business. We are also strengthening employment. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law, which will be a law, is very important. It is very important because it can give money with minimum guarantees of up to EUR 25,000, to people who need it, to people who will be able to run their business, to young people, to students, as the Minister said before, to women who have an idea, to make a start-up operation. To be able to stimulate business activity in our country. We must be able to give all those who have a serious idea, so that they can move on and do it, to implement it. Don't feel they're excluded. All this will be done without any practical obligations, without all this suffocating, which the banks have put into our country, so that the borrower can obtain solvency. You know, it is very nice to talk about the difficulties and stumbling-ups that banks put to all those seeking loan. But let us think about this: our country has the highest percentage of red loans in Europe. That is something that is not today. That's not what happened today. And some people have a responsibility, because four and a half years they have ruled this country, and they have done nothing more than throwing the can over, so that we can go over it again. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are trying to do, to stimulate entrepreneurship, to do so under a treaty and a condition. What we are trying to do should have elements of absolute transparency. That is why we also have the Bank of Greece having this supervisory role, to be the depositary - if you wish - not only to the new institutions that will be created, those micro-credits, but also to the citizens who will receive loans through this process. Because we must protect the consumer. We must protect the citizen. We must protect the new man, who thinks he finds a window of opportunity. Allow me, Mr President, to close down - because it is a little time - to two provisions of this bill. First of all, I want to refer to what has to do with traffic charges. A lot of people promised. A lot of people ordered it. We are going to implement it. We are giving owners close to a million vehicles now to pay traffic charges for their vehicles only for the time they are using them. Secondly, I would like to make a second comment on what has to do, ladies and gentlemen, with all those who have been destroying the disaster in relation to the ENPIA. As far as the agricultural parcels are concerned, the additional ENP is excluded for 2020 as well. With regard to the reductions in HPAI, we categorically state that reductions for 2020 also apply, despite the overthrow of all these economic data due to the krone pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, it could open up a great debate on whether there is enough of what has been done and whether there could be further measures. There might be other measures to support entrepreneurship and jobs. But do not underestimate all this effort that has been done, which is an attempt to keep the economy alive and upright and to have the Greeks in the new world that will be created to play a leading role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u56	I shall then give the floor to Mr Drasakis. If you would like, immediately after Mr Drasakis to speak, Mr Franciscos, who has been responsible and will then continue with the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I will speak later, after Mr Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u58	All right, Mr. Loverdo. So, you, Mr. Chakaloto, when do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u59	If you want, you can put two Members and talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u60	Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Drasakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Mamulakis, has set out our views very clearly and clearly. Of course, there will also be further remarks in individual articles in the debate that will follow. I would like to address myself to the general context in which this micro-credit institution is part, namely what we want this institution to serve. Because, I heard a lot about dangers. Of course, the risks must be prevented and tackled. First of all, we start by having, as a country, a problem, which is called a financial gap. So, those who react to this bill believe that the banking system can fill this gap? I am referring here to the Communist Party. Large companies have many channels to find donors. The small business, the professional, the farmer, especially since ATE was closed, have no tools. Whether the tool is not working properly, it will be a race object. At the moment, let's go fill an institutional gap. That is why I would like, since I had with Mr Tsakalotos, the former Minister of Finance, the responsibility for processing, to have a little tolerance for the Bureau if necessary. I would therefore like to stress that everywhere around the world if a country wants to have sustainable growth, if it wants to support small entrepreneurship, research and innovation, in order to achieve this it needs public policies, public banks, special-purpose banks, from specific financial instruments, one of which is the micro-credit tool. All European countries already have a legacy - and improve it - a wide range of such tools that operate side by side in the banking system, covering or mitigating needs, gaps, exclusions and distortions. In our country, unfortunately, the governments of the past, subjected to a logic, but also to interests closely established, banking, had for decades left the country unintentional, ungrateful, surrendered to a bank oligopoly which often acted as a bank cartel. In particular, there was no alternative for small businesses. The SYRIZA government, prepared from the outset - because we have had this in our programme since at least 2009 - has moved into a section I would say. We proceeded with the creation of what I sometimes called a 'parallel financial system' in order to accept unprecedented attacks and designations in this Chamber. What bothered, of course, was not the term. The point is that we have started to create a set of new institutions and tools that exist, as I have said, along with the banks, but - and this is the quality of - with different alternatives, economics, but also broader social, direct and, above all, long-term benefits. That's what this is about. You want to say parallel? Do you want to say it supplementary? Do you want to say it as an alternative, because Mr. Stakoras makes a number of comments? We are not concerned with the question of terms. With the establishment of the development bank and the adoption of the microcredit bill, a first cycle of legislation and other initiatives that they implement at strategic level - I repeat - our own policy, SYRIZA's policy. I am pleased that this is done with the consent of the New Democracy. Because I never remember being in its programme either the development bank or the micro-credits. We consider this to be a good thing for the country, but also because it is a right - I believe - of the effort that we have made. But - and here I agree with the critical remarks that have been made - the vigilance, attention, consistent activation by the society itself and its institutions in order to get the whole process done properly and quickly. As far as fast as possible, unfortunately, valuable time has been lost. As far as the right thing is concerned - and that is why we need to speed up the procedures from now on - we need to understand what the new institution brings, what is different, that is, what we are talking about by going to the bank and asking for a small loan. The first innovation is that the microcredit institution also allows non-banking institutions and institutions to provide such loans. There's no need for someone to be a bank. Of course, it will be subject to a legal framework with clear obligations, rules and controls. Mr. Deputy Minister mentioned this before. Of course, these institutions cannot accept deposits, but they will not be uncontrollable, they must not be uncontrollable. The second innovative element that this institution brings is that the assessment and lending criteria and the overall relationships between the provider and the borrower are different. They must be based on confidence and not on practical guarantees. In confidence equipped with both monitoring and the provision of instructions and advisory services. And this is the crucial difference between the small loan, the bank that is subject to other logic and other criteria and microcredits. While the market can be open on clear terms and conditions, however, closer to the logic of the institution and its requirements are - I would say - local bodies, bodies close to society and the professionals concerned, that is, chambers, professional organisations, regional branches of the Development Bank, cooperative banks, self-government, through the appropriate schemes, which must be shaped. In particular, I would say that this should apply to programmes subsidised by the State. This institution must succeed in its first steps. To have simple and correct procedures, transparency, to avoid a retreat of customer logic. If they are ensured, then without panacea this institution is panacea, I believe it will cover some of the gap that exists and will be a useful tool for sustainable development. If the clienteles are rational, rousphetological, opaque logic, then I fear that a useful institution will be destroyed, and that should not be allowed either by us social actors or society. Some operators have expressed - and comments have also been made here - concern about interest rates, the risk - says that interest rates are too high. As far as the state is concerned, we must make it clear here that the role of the state will not be a remote viewer, a supervisory body, but a market player, in the sense that it can draw up the same programmes. In other words, if this government wants to give farmers something, the Ministry of Agriculture must already prepare a programme which, with its criteria, will then, in its enclave, be distributed through the various bodies. So the state here has ways of intervening in the market more powerful than administrative ways and because private providers may also exist, of course, the bill, Minister, I think that it should provide for 'it is possible'. There is no need, I think, for the law to set the interest rate today, because tomorrow the circumstances may be different. I think we have an amendment in this regard. A wording like this can be worked out by the partners here, and this House can cover the possibility indeed if you have a distortion, you can intervene. More generally, I would say that in the case of micro-credits, as well as the Development Bank and this wider parallel or alternative financial system, what is changing here is the political economy. In other words, the policy is reconnected to the needs of the media. If the government - whatever government - finds that it needs to strengthen Thrace with a microcredit programme, it cannot say 'I want to, but banks do not agree'. It has the tools to do so and this applies to all needs either regionally or to the needs of small businesses, start-ups and so on. So the responsibility of the government - and also of all of us - is not over with the vote on this bill, but I would say it is beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Comrade, you've reached ten minutes. I've given all the time I could. Please complete
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u63	Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. Thank you. So open up the scope of potential providers in particular in the direction I have said, namely chambers, professional bodies, cooperative banks and others, such as self-government, to reduce the level of initial capital as at least one point, adopt our own logic of supervision. We want it in the Bank of Greece, but in an intergovernmental, inter-ministerial body, a political body. In any case, make sure that the new institution is not trapped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Comrade, please. You're 11 minutes old. There are other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u65	I respect colleagues. I saw your tolerance too much before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u66	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u67	I will not have a dialogue with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u68	Nine minutes he talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u69	I'm done, Mr. President. For God's sake. Is that what we're gonna argue with?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Mr. Keletsis now has the floor, and then Mr. Francis, because we have a little time to go in turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u71	Weren't we supposed to circle ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u72	You asked me for some things because you have a duty too. Mr. Keletsis, Mr. Francis, Mr. Karathasopoulos will be here. You have asked me to speak, Mr. Chakalotos after you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u73	And then me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u74	Yes, Minister. Then we'll start with Mr. Karathanasopoulos, who also has obligations and has to go to Patras. You guys finish your own obligation. You're all going after 13:30. Here, Mr. Keletsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the economic crisis that the country has experienced in recent years has mainly dissolved entrepreneurship. Two were the major problems of this period in business: one high taxation and the second was the deprivation of the liquidity of business finance. The return to normality, economy and entrepreneurship means lowering taxation, firstly, and restoring financing through the creation of new financial instruments. The new government, in fact, until the end of last year proceeded to reduce taxation by a number of bills and interventions and to ensure normalisation in the operation of the banking system in particular by the HARAKLIS project. Today a new bill, which introduces completely innovative financial instruments, brings the government to a vote aimed at restoring normality in liquidity to small and micro-enterprises, individual businesses, businesses that are now starting their activities, but also to businesses that are starting with people who belong to vulnerable social groups. We are talking about a new financial instrument for smaller amounts up to EUR 25 000 and, of course, the amendment that has been tabled also concerns farmers. I would also like clarification here, Minister, if possible. The amendment, which has been tabled, concerns the financing of farmers, the main professions of farmers only by the bank and the banking sector or by the new institutions which we are establishing on the basis of the new bill? Small businesses, ladies and gentlemen, were really in need of this new institution, because they really have faced enormous difficulties in having access to the banking system. A lot of discussion has taken place over time about the structure and model of the Greek economy, about the multi-currency, about the lack of large sizes and the division of resources. Indeed, as a country and economy we have a selfishness. But does this peculiarity not follow the social conditions, does it not follow the geographical structure and geophysical structure of the country, the particular conditions of isolation of islands and mountainous areas? In these circumstances, then, the question is: are these enterprises, small, very small, the individual, who are currently involved in the bill, paying their owners an income to live? Do they also provide in the context of the normal functioning of society goods in societies that may otherwise be deprived of? Are they somehow burdening the State or, on the contrary, by means of taxation? So why should we be or be personally, dogmatic and a priori against small businesses? So this peculiarity, the peculiarity of the Greek economy is a reality and this reality comes today for the first time by the Greek Government to recognise and help it, that is, to help these small businesses in the small, isolated corners of Greece to be able to breathe. But this is also the backbone of the Greek economy. We are creating these new financial instruments, which aim to facilitate the financing, the restoration of the liquidity of these very small enterprises, the supply of oxygen to the small businessman hit by the crisis, which was dissolved by the coronary pandemic. Yesterday, Minister, you referred to your speech - Minister, at this point I would like you to take a little notice of me - in the Committee on Economic Affairs at the age of nine - if I am not mistaken - of the financial instruments that our Government has actually put in place. Indeed, we must use as many tools as possible. However, I would like to remind you of one more thing that exists - and there is one pending - in the region of Thrace. This is the case of subsidising the employer's cost of 12% in Thrace, which has been interrupted some time after 2010 and because of the financial difficulties. Today, Minister, we have some new data, in the light of which I believe that the Ministry and the Government should see this instrument of subsidising the cost of 12%. What are these data? In this context, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. And the second is a decision to the first extent that was justified by a plaintiff requesting the amounts due by 2015. So a given is these decisions that are in favour of the beneficiaries. The second presumption is that this tool is now fully compatible with the declarations of the Government and Prime Minister that our choice now is to subsidise labour rather than not unemployment. And it is precisely this measure that grants employment, not unemployment and does not run counter to European data. There has also been a reply from the Commissioner responsible and acknowledging that this measure serves Community cohesion and regional development. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to see in this light the request of Thrace's firms for payment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u76	It is also Eastern Macedonia, it is a joint request, it is a region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u77	Yes, Mr. Colleague, we won't blame you. So the money that has already been prosecuted will also be paid to the second degree. And I fear that if new actions are going on for 2016 to 2020, all that will be done will be to trouble all these beneficiaries, to cost all of this in terms of both economic and business, but also in the state, if it resorts to further grades and eventually reach the final point of paying this money after judicial decisions. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with one phrase, that the horn pandemic has, on the one hand, undermined the economic recovery process in which we have, on the other hand, put forward new priorities. And one of these new priorities is that the burden still has to fall on the primary sector of the economy, namely the production of products and goods and the processing. We cannot read that the country is a deficit in meat and eggs. This country has comparative advantages. We must put new priorities back on the primary sector of the economy, which we will strengthen as far as possible, so that we do not have to introduce self-evident, simpler goods, such as meat and eggs. I believe that from the pandemic crisis we can get more wise and take advantage of all these conclusions, see the crisis as an opportunity and make a new start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u78	Thank you. Please for time! Mr. Frankides has the floor now. Immediately after that the parliamentary representative will speak - they have changed after consultation - Mr Lebanese and we will see how we will continue. Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, starting as head of the Tourism Sector of the Change Movement, I should like to refer to the issue of hosting COVID cases -19 in accommodation, which should have been closed already, as the tourist season opened on June 16, 2020. The hotel owners did not show interest, obviously due to low economic incentives and insecurity. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you were forced to take out a CSM yesterday that poses huge problems, because, firstly, there is a risk that the health bomb will be triggered in the tourist regions by unjustified coexistence - even temporarily - of the CVID entities -19 with healthy tourists. Secondly, the effort to bring the country back to the global tourist map is being undermined. Thirdly, there is no possibility of effective health control and case management and, fourthly, the condition of proximity with a hospital unit is not served. Unfortunately, once again you have been too late and huge problems arise in tourism. Mr President-in-Office, the answerable crises in our economy have created conditions of recession. The situation is unpredictable and the political leadership of the country must provide and protect economic activity and social cohesion in every way. For some time now, we have pointed out that the government's measures to strengthen liquidity are not enough in the real economy. The backbone of Greek entrepreneurship, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, fail to meet the loan conditions of the systemic financial institutions that increasingly ask for guarantees. This is an unacceptable attitude of the banks, which have been recapitulated so many times with the Greek people's money and instead of supporting their citizens - their donors and contributing substantially to social cohesion and development, they prefer to "bring indifferently". We must all stand responsibly and in solidarity with the community as a whole. It is important to explore what happens with the credit institutions that, while participating in the liquidity tools announced by the government with the guarantee of the Greek State, are reluctant to respond to the real needs of the small and medium-sized enterprises of the country. At the same time, they are supported with liquidity and guarantees by the European Investment Bank, the Greek Development Bank, they enjoy the benefits of the quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank, they have guarantees from the project "HERAKLIS" and much more. So, Mr Ministers, which you should see in general is the question of exempting sectors from beneficial arrangements. There were small and micro-enterprises and professionals who did not join the government support measures, because their SMRs were not included in the affected, such as the mini-markets in tourist areas treated as supermarkets in urban areas because of their own SMR. Also, from the recent forecast for enterprises active in the tourism sector, which extend the deadline for payment of their cheques for an additional sixty days, there are no branches such as tourist buses. At the same time, financial obligations are "current" towards public, banks and individuals and are a loop in the neck of professionals and micro-enterprises. The Change Movement has made concrete proposals to enhance the liquidity and viability of businesses, such as increasing the total amount of repayable advance, which is essentially the only tool so far that it has not strictly criteria and can reach businesses. Also, a zero tax advance for 2020 for directly affected enterprises and a 50% advance for all others. The draft law we are debating today introduces a new institution that will also work out additional and out of reasonable bank lending. I hope that this does not, as is already the case with the flows of funding from systemic banks to businesses. So there is also concern about the level of interest rate, and we should, of course, find a solution. It is positive to include the social economy actors in the beneficiaries. We expect you to improve the legislation in this area. We proposed that they also be able to grant microcredits not only to receive them. The issue of financing guarantees also needs specialization in the form, limit and percentage. A large amount should not be retained as a guarantee, because the aid to the beneficiary is then too little. The Government and the Bank of Greece need to ensure effective control and supervision of new institutions. With regard to pensioners' retrospectives, the reduced tax provided for is good, but those should not be charged because of the delays and omissions of the ADI and the Ministry of Finance. Finally, it is good to exempt the agricultural parcels of natural persons from supplementary ENPI for the year 2020, but we have been waiting, Ministers, to see its abolition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u80	Thank you for the time too. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue, let me tell this House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 26 June 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 843/22-6-2020 by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Tsakris to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Expansion of Western Suburban Thessaloniki to Edessa via the Yannis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Ligoulis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Serious problems of subsistence and aged material for the fire services of Larissa". 3. The 838-26-2020 topical question by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Direct abolition of the trade fee to farmers and farmers". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 844/22-6-2020 by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Extensive and unjustified police violence in the gathering of a protest about the pollution in Volos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 841-26-2020 topical question by the MP of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "A clearing operation of the former Kopaidas Organization". 3. The question by No 840/22-6-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Additional difficulties for teachers in middle-education and foreign languages for receiving unemployment benefits". 4. The Question No 848/22-6-2020 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: "Stop of Ms. Bourras' show at ERT". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Security of passengers' rights from cancelled due to coronary flights". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In a deadlock to the Sikarian Foundation". 3. The question under number 5580/74-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The problems of the auxiliary workers of the Centre for the Welfare of Central Macedonia are being addressed." 4. Question No 6231/6-5-2020 by Mr Kegeroglou, Prime Minister of Heraklion, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'The minimum wage increase'. 5. The question by number 6203/5-2020 asked by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Nikolaos Syrmalenios, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Supporting new businessmen with CAR tourist professions”. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue on the bill. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Lebanon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by giving some brief answers to what Mr Velopoulos said before. First of all, because I have been following the President since 2007, I have been amazed that his criticism has focused on Mr Vorides and Mr Adonni Georgiadis. Maybe that means something. But to get a little more serious, he brought back the subject of the media list and advertising. It is clear and given the government's position. Mr. Petsas has said it since April 10th in this Chamber. The money, the sums will be made available to the public. The instruments that have been put into the programme have already been made public. I think that this issue has been covered in full. In any case, it cannot be offset by the logic of SYRIZA, where they used funds from the ECHO to make party communication. This is exactly the opposite. There was a program to help stop the virus. On the subject of influence on our national issues, we are not talking about a reduced influence anywhere. That's clear. Our foreign policy is a summary of the fact that we have been trying to solve problems over decades and, as we have seen with the recent successful agreement on the EEZ with Italy, we are doing so. We succeed with this multi-dimensional, forward-looking, active policy to ensure Greek interests, to protect every inch of Greek land and, of course, to defend peace, progress and prosperity in the region. Coming now to the bill, I would like to say that it is a bill that introduces into our economic life a crucial financial instrument, a tool that reveals the plan of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance for the economy. An economy in the middle class plays a dominant role, because for us - we say it again - it is not a class enemy, but we think about it, we believe it as a backbone of our economy. An economy of equal opportunities for all and social justice, with strong public education and health, highlighting the importance of work not only as a means of living for the citizens, but also as a means of ensuring the safety of all Greeks and all Greeks. As we have shown during the pandemic, we are subsidising our citizens' work to provide them with the necessary personal and social security so that they can live better and progress, because we think, as everyone in our western civilisation, that work is an element of integration of citizens' personality, of definition and definition within society. That is why we take care and ensure the protection of jobs. I will not begin by saying that we live in the era of great inequalities - we have talked about it many times - inequality which, unfortunately, we see, is increasing technology, which is best exploited by the most powerful, so as to allow them to increase their revenue. In 2017 the numbers were specific. The richest 1% worldwide received 82% of the wealth produced. In our country, fortunately, the richest 10% at the same time had 42% of the total wealth. Our retreat, and that is a given, is fighting to correct this situation. It is possible that the other groups in Parliament will do the same. We are implementing a liberal policy with a social leap in order to make it possible for all Greek women and all Greeks to dream, that is, the possibility of moving in the same way, regardless of their social and economic position, to go ahead more practically than their parents, to create and move forward. We are fighting the perpetuation of poverty traps. Our aim and vision is for all those who really want it and work hard to achieve it, to make economic and social mobility possible. The great economic crisis experienced by our homeland enclosed many of our fellow citizens in a vicious circle. Think of the people who have not shaped the skills needed, so that they can find a better job, who do not have the necessary guarantees to borrow from the banks and feel trapped without having the prospect of exit. It is this way out that the government is trying to produce with this bill. Because, in order to obtain the conditions for exiting poverty, capital is needed and not allowances. And not only does it need capital, as has already been said, but it also needs information. Good information about what can be done with this chapter, so that it can build its life better, be able to complete, for example, the repayment of its loan, improve its economic situation, contribute to the economic development of the country as a whole. Mr Stavros rightly put it in a speech that our plan for the country has three main pillars: wealth, composition and redistribution. But why is this tool created by the government? Because the banks, as it has proved in the years of the severe economic crisis, cannot ultimately cope with this role. The pandemic and the exceptional circumstances it created have obviously caused tectonic changes in our economic life. While I understand the financial rules that they must observe, it is clear that they must take their share of the responsibility and support businesses, grant loans, freeing liquidity, which is so much in need of entrepreneurship. All - and the banks obviously - must be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. Clearly we do not meet as an exception to those who are talking about granting money without any banking criterion, but the criticality of the moments also requires the appropriate flexibility and good mood. But because society is not just medium-sized and large enterprises, but also small, simple shopkeepers, ordinary citizens, we are introducing this very micro-credit institution. The importance of this tool was also understood by the previous government, as Mr Drasakis explained in detail. We're happy about that. They did not have time to do that, but at any rate they did agree. And I would like to say that there is no need to be any concern, because the programme, the economic recovery plan will be exactly the way it is seen, and the same one and various of the ones we have seen in the past decades in our country. We are therefore introducing this possibility of granting loans of up to EUR 25 000 without safeguards. In this way, we support the young man who wants to start his own small business and also the largest ageing citizen, the citizen who is familiar with technology. We support the new student, who seeks to carry out his studies in order to make better progress in his life, single parents and other vulnerable social groups. We are entrusting the supervision of this parallel financial "bank" system to the Bank of Greece, the most appropriate one for supervising this new system. In other words, in practice, we support all the means of the Greek economy and society, a society that is watching - and I am sorry, I am really sorry to say this - with shame and anger about what has been revealed in the last few days and hours in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the mistakes made by SYRIZA during its four-year government are many and thousands of people. The Greek people know. But the most serious thing was their attempt to control the institutions, to salvage the crucial institutional counterweights and to manipulate justice. The recent discussions that have seen the light of publicity - and I think we will be concerned with the future - of the then Minister of State and essentially number 2 of the SYRIZA Government - ANALL with a businessman Mr.Mionis, prove the institutional catastrophe of the previous period, a catastrophe that everyone, as we hear amazes us all, contained stores, large stores, profits, money and other money. It also contained political pressures on Mr Stavros Papastavros to falsely incriminate the wife of the current Prime Minister and then President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis. It's a catapult that doesn't stop there. It includes the former Minister of Defense and his wife, who are now showing us with documentary orders for policemen to watch and arrest journalists and publishers, effectively creating a parallel structure in the state, but also the secretary of the SYRIZA party at the moment, these days to come out on television and to state in essence that when Mr. Kammen and his system were watching journalists and asking for their prosecution, at the government's command, then he was following Mr. Kammen who was watching journalists. These things are unbelievable and I understand the difficulty of the SYRIZA Members present, but also all the SYRIZA members, and I understand their difficulty, but I can only comment on them and wait for some answers. It's rot and decay phenomena. I'm sorry to say this, but that's the point left by SYRIZA's policy. It was not enough for SYRIZA to rule the place. He wanted to understand, as the former Prime Minister told us, the joints of power. It is clear that the DNA of the SYRIZA party is summarised in the famous “or we finish them or end us”. Unfortunately, you have ruled divisively, authoritarianly, attempting to control every institution and, above all, justice. Think, even for a minute, what would happen in this sacred room and outside it, if an official of the Government of New Democracy were in the position of the former Minister of State. It would have become a great mess, and Mr. Tsipras would have been here, constantly, shouting and saying that we must protect democracy. Today where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u82	He wouldn't be in the middle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u83	Fortunately, on 7 July, the Greek people judged you, Mr Tsakalotos, and sent you to the chairs that you sit down, to the chairs of Anti-Population, but this post has a very great responsibility. We therefore call on you to understand the institutional weight of your position. We invite you, even now, at the twelfth hour, to expressly condemn the "doubles" within the Maximos Mansion and the coffee. Because Greece, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is neither a shop nor a shop. It's the homeland of all of us, and we all have to serve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u84	Thank you for keeping time, Mr Levane. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, you will understand why I am starting the debate with the latest events, that is, the events that highlight the boot and the rot of the system defending the other parties, the capitalist system. The sepsis, corruption and complexity are the child of the capitalist system and not the sidelines of it. This is related to the fact that the parties that manage this system, their policies serve the interests of business groups and the altar of these interests, sacrifice the satisfaction of people's needs, break them. So none of the parties that exercised rule are innocently dovetailed. And here they all fall on the table: selective relationships of political staff with business groups, geopolitical games which are played - the government of Israel says, and the Prime Minister of Israel himself, Mr Netanyahu, was the one who caused the meetings, the state of murderer, which are of course related to efforts to reorientate political personnel, and the constant phenomena of intervention and manipulation of justice. This is the result and the child of the system you defend. And from this point of view, any toys are being made for disorientation on the substance and a number of methods are being used. I would remind you that the JRC has left both pre-review committees and that of the SYRIZA Government and the New Democracy Government for the NOVARTIS scandal. Why? We did not want to make use of a series of phenomena which hamper the debate and investigation of the case, such as the witnesses, the guardians, the warmly protected witnesses, who SYRIZA is defending today and, of course, the majority and the New Democracy, since they did not take their masks and tabled their name. Also from positions of principle we are against the intercepts, regardless of whom it is of interest and who it serves. And I would remind you that in relation to the hooded witnesses, we also held a stand at the Golden Dawn trial. And we say that just because the pouch opens. As it opens up with the protected witnesses, since the accuracy, reliability and identity of those who say, so can the intercepts. Let me remind you here that in the JRC we have publicly denounced the issues of hearings and intercepts held at the headquarters of the Central Committee for the last four years. And it has huge responsibilities, and the SYRIZA government and the current government, which not only investigates this case but continue on the same side of the line. In fact, by an official complaint made today by the Central Committee press office, these phenomena were repeated on two days 18 and 20 June. Integration at the headquarters of the Central Committee. The AIA knows where these calls come from, does not investigate who they do and who they are behind them. So is the justice that has blocked every investigation of the case. This development of things is, in the JRC's opinion, particularly insulting in terms of the issues of the rights and freedoms of the people, who are persecuted and violated every day. And from this point of view, we call on the government to take an open stand on this matter and to investigate the case. I will submit to the minutes the complaint about the meetings held in the Central Committee, the central committee's telephone centre 18 to 20 June a few days ago, the fourth series of hearings we had. Because we had the same thing four years ago and was repeated in 2017, 2019 and four days ago. So one thing is that. And from this point of view, of course, I shall also refer very briefly to the amendment tabled by the JRC - it has tabled other amendments, we shall also discuss in the debate on the issues of media promotion with state funding of various public, public and ECO advertising campaigns. It is precisely because the attitude of the New Democracy Government does not give public access to the list of instruments financed in the middle of a pandemic, it raises huge questions and it is an act which is unacceptable in the view of the JRC. So, in trying to deal with this, we put in the amendment first of all that matters relating to public health must be broadcast free of charge from all the media and what is needed to be advertised within ten days of this being commissioned - the body, whether it is a ministry or a public body - should submit to the House, the Transparency Committee, the list of the media which have been financed, to see if the rules were followed - which are rules - regarding promotion and equal treatment. I'll come to the bill now. I followed the speech of Mr. Undersecretary and Mr. Drasakis. Speeching and supplementary speeches. And it could not be done otherwise, after processing the bill under the SYRIZA Government has started and it was completed on your own days. Is that necessarily bad? As a JRC we say no, it's not necessarily bad. The question is what we want to do with the initiative you are taking. And you said it clearly, too, Mr. Undersecretary, and Mr. Drasakis, that micro-enterprises could have access to financing. But the question is: Is this the problem with self-employed and craftsmen, professionals, merchants, poor medium-sized farms? Is that their problem, that they don't have access to the banking sector and finance through lending? Overall, in individual enterprises which, of course, separate them from shareholders, can this tool respond to their problem? We say no, that's not their problem. The problems of self-employed, traders and so-called individual companies arise from two main sources. The first source is competition, the fierce competition that is received by the shareholders, the monopolies to gain an increasing part of the market and lose ground. This, therefore, is the first side of competition, the first source of the problems for the self-employed. The second source of problems is the current government policies which exacerbate the position of individual businesses, self-employed, professionals and traders. We also met government policies in the very recent period. Who were these? The tax raids, the complete frontal tax raids that they have accepted in previous years and with the memoranda and not only, the trade fee, the 100% advance in tax, their tax payback. These were all issues that aggravated the position of the self-employed. Overturns in the insurance system, the ever-increasing insurance contributions that they have to pay, and the less and less benefits they have from the insurance system, the liberalisation of working hours. In this respect, therefore, these are the two main sources of the problems they face. And today, in the midst of a new capitalist crisis which manifests itself, we see the logic of the government, but not only the government, and the other parties, the logic of horizontal measures. It is precisely this logic that is the covert cloak that most of the support measures will be directed to monopolies. That is what the European Union's guidelines on financing packages say about government policy. And from this faucet, which will be done with money the taxpayers will be asked to pay afterward, a very small piece will, as an ashes in the eyes, go to self-employed and professionals. And will it go by what method? The method of borrowing. While shareholders, the monopolies, that is, will have support for subsidies, state guarantees, various development and investment packages, the various tools, other funding tools, the specific planning tools and a number of other measures that support their needs and, of course, the basic measure, the attack on the remaining workers' rights, on the other hand, the other side of the coin shows that for professionals, the government pursues the tactics of suspending their obligations and lending. What does he actually tell them? While they are facing huge problems, it tells them that whatever obligations you have, you will repay them not today, but in the immediate future, and in the multiple, all of this will be repaid. So on the substance, it simply opens up the doll a little bit, then tightens it up much later in the neck of these categories. This is the government policy you are following. The self-employed, the professionals, the poor, the poor and the poor, the farmers do not want to suspend their obligations, they want to relieve, 'haircut' their obligations and obligations towards both the banks and the insurance funds and to the tax authorities, so that they can say they will breathe and that they can, by improving their position, try to survive. That's the point. But not only do you not do that, but you follow exactly the opposite logic. That is why there are also concrete measures supported by the JRC. And the JRC highlights these measures, the objectives of the fight against self-employed, professionals, scientists and farmers. What are these measures? To join tax-free and duty-free to reach 12,000 euros for everyone, to abolish the trade fee for everyone, to abolish HPAI, to abolish the advance payment of tax, to cover for as long as insurance obligations with State spending are needed, without having any impact at this time of the crisis in their pensions. Here, then, are the goals of fighting the self-employed. It's not their main, it's a burning question if they can borrow. For that very reason, the JRC says no to the bill. Because we do not want measures to worsen the position in the next few years, but we want relief measures. From this point of view, there is also a need for joint action by all these self-employed, traders, craftsmen and workers. It is precisely this joint action that must highlight the framework of struggle and also target the visible enemy. The visible enemy to all of them is his monopoly and his system. Conjugate with it until overturning it. In this respect, therefore, Mr President, we are voting against this bill in principle and will be much more detailed in the debate on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u86	Thank you for the time too. Now two Members are going to speak, Mr. Heimaras and Mrs. MacKaris, and Mr. Hetas will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u87	Mr. President, after Mr. Heta, will I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u88	Yes, Mr. Chakaloto. Here, Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with one word, I can describe today's business day, children who want to set up in recent years startups in our country, people looking for a chapter to start their efforts. Finally, that's the word. I say this at the beginning of my position, because I participated in my previous capacity as vice-president at dialogue tables, then with the previous government and ministers on when to prepare for that necessary framework, which will enable microfinance. We were then looking for it as a regional authority, in order to make use of resources available from the regional operational programme, because we were seeing this need, because we had young people inspired minds in our region, in Central Greece, who wanted to attempt, but, unfortunately, did not have that little chapter they needed to make their first steps. Today's bill is the continuation of a series of policies adopted by the New Democracy Government in recent months and are coming to respond exactly in the opposite direction to what happened in the previous four-and-a-half years, and they are coming to respond to the real formation of a pre-business climate in the country, a business friendly for new investment. I shall mention in summary the reduction in income tax, which we have brought with the tax bill, which, of course, goes from 22% to 9% for incomes up to EUR 10,000 and, of course, with the provision that this 9% is about 4.5% for the first three years for start-ups. I will refer to the reduction in corporate taxation at their main rate from 28% to 24%, and, of course, the dividends from 10% to 5%, the draft law dealing with bureaucracy and, of course, the insurance bill that finally disconnected income from insurance contributions. "Smallness" was the specific Katorugalou law, for all of us who were attempting on the free market. If I add to these initial policies that I have mentioned today's bill, they will respond to the various research carried out by young people in our country that they are the biggest obstacles. It is tax, first of all, financing and, of course, bureaucracy. So I come to the specific provisions of the bill, to which the draft law ultimately covers. It is the access of small businesses, particularly those at the start of their business, to new alternative forms of financing - unfortunately, not everyone can have access to the banks and we know it - and, of course, to strengthen social groups to tackle unemployment and social exclusion. How is this done? Rules on the transparency of terms and information requirements are laid down concerning the activities of granting microfinance. The rights and obligations of both beneficiaries and microfinance institutions are defined. The Bank of Greece is designated as the competent authority for supervision and authorisation of microfinance institutions, and this is very right because in most countries the respective logic applies. What is microfinance? It is the funding of up to EUR 25,000 to cover investment needs, capital of working capital, leasing products, for the acquisition of equipment. They are forms of credit aimed at strengthening public policies or the social and economic integration of vulnerable social groups. Who do they deserve? Natural persons of very small entities, natural persons engaged in individual business, Bodies of KOLOS, social and solidarity of the economy and, of course, individuals belonging to vulnerable social groups. I welcome unanimity on my part. It is important in this Chamber to have the continuity of the state and to ensure that the SYRIZA's attitude, although it belongs to the bills that you have not been able to do so again, is appreciated and I welcome it. With regard to the experiences I can testify to and that can help, I am a man who started my business in 2006. So the first thing I was looking for was funding. The second thing we were all looking for back then was to have access to the OAED so that we could have subsidised workers. We then succeeded with the excellent work done by the late Dimitris Sioufas, the Minister of Development, with programs of EMOMEMH, which was youth entrepreneurship and female entrepreneurship respectively. At the same time, we have also used OAS programmes so that we can have workers who do not have these features that we now see in the OAED and in its programmes and actions. It was much more flexible. We could, for eighteen months, have a worker subsidy at a very large rate. This has enabled us to see in front of us a two-year and five-year business plan and to move forward. I would like to put that as a proposal, Minister. At some point our government must see a specific package that will give the incentives of funding and, of course, all the tools of the NSRP, linked - if you like - to OAS programmes so that we can move forward. Of course, I started with my previous capacity as a district chief. I tell you that the regional authorities, in particular, are ready to develop such tools, have structures, business support centres, people who know how to give advice to young entrepreneurs and are able to make a significant contribution to the Government's efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u90	We thank the honourable Member for his time. Mrs Zetta Macras has the floor, and we hope that she will be in the same context.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u91	I will, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u92	Here you go, Mrs. Macrie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u93	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after a year of taking over governance by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy, it is increasingly apparent that the responsibility and effectiveness with which the government faces the government's bet on the country's economic and social upturn and recovery, with targeted policies, policies, including employment support, the strengthening of business liquidity and the stimulation of social cohesion. All this time, bold, innovative, decisive and, above all, methodical, the financial staff designs prospects, builds up the conditions and develops the tools for implementing realistic policies that will lead to a smooth transition to normality, after an extremely exhaustive and traumatic 10-year economic crisis and after an unprecedented global health crisis that caused, tried and shielded the psychological resistance of our fellow citizens. With holistic, integrated, coherent and, above all, dynamic initiatives, which meet the needs and requirements created by these developments, the Ministry of Finance and all the government's productive staff are trying to stimulate the economy and the market. Thus, a set of initiatives, which are distinct from one another and also entirely complementary, such as a repayable advance, the suspensions of the tax and insurance obligations of households and businesses, the interest subsidy of all the business loans of firms that are affected by sectors, the working capital under the Entrepreneurship Fund II, the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank, and the generous reduction of the advance tax on enterprises, which will be announced shortly, as well as the new institutional framework for microfinance, which we are discussing today, are strong instruments for strengthening the liquidity of enterprises. They are tools that can maximise their results, in combination with the actions of the public and private sectors, in order to address the new challenges. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, on the microfinance initiative, is decisive for the future of the country and for the well-being of the citizens, as it stems from the economic recession that, unfortunately, has reappeared since the health crisis. This initiative combines many provisions such as: to stimulate productivity and competitiveness, to secure jobs, to reduce the extreme social inequalities and to contribute to tackling unemployment and social exclusion. It is a draft law which puts aside traditional ideological differences and bases its applicability on the fact that there is an urgent need to provide immediate liquidity to the real economy. Besides, this need to integrate a microfinance framework into Greek legislation dates back to 2013. In particular at that time the Minister for Development had begun preparing the first plans to be fully compatible with the European Code of Good Practice of the European Union in force since 2010. This would cover the financial gap for the small business activity. The previous government obviously did not catch up, of course, in shaping the framework, but never completed it. After significant legislative processing, additions to proposals, improvements to corrections, thorough discussion with the institution's accelerating European Central Bank and the expertise and experience in these matters Bank of Greece and, of course, following constructive public consultation with stakeholders, the Government of New Democracy, the Ministry responsible, listening to the requirements of the times progresses in its legislation. It is a draft law which develops an extremely social tool, enabling microcredits to be provided, or a chapter of EUR 25 000 in micro-enterprises, natural persons who want to set up micro-enterprises, natural persons who already engage in individual business, people who want to train in order to integrate them smoothly into work and people who belong to vulnerable social groups. It is, finally, a draft law that deserves great congratulations to the leadership of the Ministry of Finance and its services, as it is innovative and shallow, since funding is given which is not bank, and therefore no guarantee is required. It is modern and dynamic since it is characterised by flexibility, in order to enhance entrepreneurship, to limit the paradox and to promote healthy business culture. It is new and peculiar, since it serves another type of feasibility and function. It is attractive, as it provides for specific tax exemptions to provide incentives. It is strict but not heavyly bureaucratic to ensure transparency. Mr Ministers, it is worthwhile to try and follow the parliamentary procedures that you have followed, since you have already made amendments to this bill and you are open and positive, you are all three ministers open and positive to fair remarks and to correct comments on legislative improvements. One of these provisions in the amendment which you have already made in order to make it easier for businesses affected by pandemic to do so is that of Article 1. In particular, the amendment to this provision provides for the benefit of, among other things, the non-registration of records of economic behaviour of business securities operating in the tourism sector or in seasonal enterprises in the tertiary sector, on which the payer has been established or is to be assured by the payer bank in the period from 1-6-2020 to 15-7-2020. For this provision, I have received some comments from interested professionals from Magnesia who wish to suspend seventy-five days of protection for the records of June, July and August and not to seal and report them after seventy-five days at the "TILIA". This is because, in their opinion, and I support it, it will mean transferring the problem of inability to pay to the wider market, but it will simply be a time-consuming transfer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Invoking, above all, your scientific expertise, know-how in these matters and your sensitivity, I hope you will consider it with due care. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this bill is self-proof of this government's rapid reflexes to the removal of social exclusion, to strengthen the unemployed and vulnerable social groups and to strengthen the economic activity of a large part of the working population, by making good use of state aid responsibly and effectively. We all have to support and vote for it, to stimulate productivity and competitiveness and to successfully move the Greek economy to a new development model, which will ensure sustainable and inclusive high rates of economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u94	Thank you. Mr Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor now. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to say that I am deeply saddened, because as a young politician in the first few months, we are closing in almost a few days, I have a very great tribulation, because all that I have seen in the past twenty-five, twenty-six years as a journalist outside the Greek Parliament, I see them here and I am really sad. I shall start with this matter and refer to the case 'NOVARTIS' and all this well-known theatre that has been set up and played on both sides, from the side of the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement, because it is also involved in this story. Then we wonder and wonder, ladies and gentlemen, why the world has disgusted with us, why the citizens have turned their backs to society, to politics, to the Greek Parliament and to all of us. It's a tragic situation with what's happening. Again, the same in a country that failed to solve anything, nothing and never: no scandal, no list, nothing of the great scandals. Today we've opened again without a special reason... Because the evidence, all that has been presented to the pre-examination in the last few days, has been well known for too long. We wonder, and you wonder, in the panels, why have they been presented now? Why are they showing up now? Why are the revelations now? We've suddenly opened the scandal box now by intercepting, blackmailing. No way, though. Why is the point? The point is to find out sometime. And that is why we are, in fact, proud of the wise movement of the Greek Solution several months ago in Parliament, when we decided to leave this Chamber and not to take part in this travesty, because the essence of the NOVARTIS case is to learn the Greek people who took the millions of euros, billions of euros and nothing more. You play a well-known theatre for your own cheap politicians, communication, party reasons. You are getting out of the scandal box, as I said before, every time such cases occur and you prepare people for elections and disorientate public opinion. Because this is a disorientation of the public. As if it were of interest to the retired person right now or to the people who are suffering, what has happened to this case on the basis of which you are putting it. People want to know where the money went and nothing more, about no Minon and no intercept, and "no, the intercept is not good" and "no, it's not me", "it's not me", "it's finally been me." And can I tell you something? So, all of these people, what is it? You're so underestimating Alexis Tsipras? Let me get this straight. So I don't understand. All this does if he does - will he prove - Papagelopoulos himself? So Pope Nicos, who's seen from a channel to a channel and who's gonna talk here today, probably why is he doing it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Pappas won't speak here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u97	Oh, won't he talk? Very good. Why did he do this? In ignorance of Mr. Tsipras? So since you so much want the knife to reach the bone, why don't you put it in the castle and Mr. Tsipras, since you so much want your position to be cleared up. That's what we told you. Put this case in the dashboard and Mr. Tsipras, send the case to justice, because the House is not here without justice, and we will be with you to reach the case to the end. But you're hypocrites and you're only doing it for communications, you're supposed to be beating me, you're fighting, and out of this Chamber you're hugging and kissing. This is the truth and the Greek people must listen to it. I'm going to the bigs and the importants now. Great and important are, for example, our national issues, for example, the undeniable need to proclaim or demarcate - one of the two take-ups, I see us proclaiming, because I see no agreement with anyone to demarcate. Because I'm also calling another demarcating EOZ. At least we can do something ourselves. And I heard from the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative a moment ago saying that we, as a government, are not talking about a reduced influence, in response to what he was accused of, a little while ago by the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, who accused - and I am doing so right now here - the Government for an attempt to delimit AEZ, as he did with Italy and with Egypt, with reduced influence on Greek islands. And I wonder, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, where you say that your Government is not talking about reduced EEZ, about reduced influence: What statement should I believe? I wish you were right and we believe you. So I believe you and I say that a Greek government never dares to speak of a reduced influence on the islands. What should I believe from the statements by the Foreign Minister, your Foreign Minister, a few days ago, who said that if the Turks want to speak on the basis of the agreement we made with Italy to come and talk to us very gladly? So what did Mr. Treasury's agreement with Italian Di May say? What did he say? For reduced influence on the Strofods, for reduced influence on the overseas islands, etc., yes or no? What does it mean? So that stops being an EOZ. It's not AOZ, it's OZ. He's leaving the exclusive. It is not an exclusive economic zone, it is an economic zone, it is an economic cooperation zone. We do business together, it's not ours, it's not exclusive. Based on this, are you going to do the same now with Egypt? He gave land and water to the Italians, Mr. Dendias, gave land and water to break Greek fishing and our national wealth. We put partners in, did we put partners, yes or no? And now, right now, the same thing is going on with Egypt. You talk to Egypt - I wish these were not the case - for Greek influence rates in Kastelorizo, for our country's influence rates in Rhodes, Karpathos, in Crete 20% and it goes by saying. That's what you're going to do. And I'll say it's an organized plan. Mr President, I will use my dentext and thank you very much for your tolerance and end in three minutes from now. Also tell us to understand, which of the two points of view is it that echoes on our national issues, on the EEZ issues, as you said, and on all of that, Mr. Dendia or yours here? And I will go to national issues, where we have the one view that the military leader, say, Mr Florus, has made a statement which has been misunderstood by some of you. Because the Greek Solution is the only party, the only party, the only movement, which says directly when asked that it would enter the Greek national waters Turkish ship immediately. Nobody dares to say that. Because that's what has to be done. And I say now, what Mr. Florus said, is the general correct or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u98	Chief of HNDGS.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u99	Chief of HNDGS, General. Is it right or not? Do you agree with that or not? Decide. Because there are some who agree and some who disagree. Some members of the New Democracy, and first classita - I will not say names again, I will not say that - have made references completely different. What can I say about an Aristotle Aibaliotis of New Democracy, a stroller ideologist, who has changed seven, eight parties and now parked on you in New Democracy, who spoke of "recitals of nonsense between Greek and Turkish military leaders, who compete for the most “strategic...” declaration? What can I say about this man? Is anyone gonna pick them up? And to go to the Turks, to know something, that we're on our own, as the President of Greek Solution keeps saying. Listen to something: Turks are Germans' favorite child. You should be aware that according to today's paper 'DIE WELT', one of the most serious and popular newspapers in Germany, over 1/3 of German arms exports ends in Turkey,1/3. Last year, total exports - to the Greek people, Greek citizens - to the Germans were EUR 623 million. Turkey received weapons worth 344,6m euros last year from Germany. And you say the Germans are our friends. They're not our friends and they'll never be. At the end of my speech I shall submit to the Minutes the text of the paper 'DIE WELT'. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASOU, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARALABOS Athanasou.]] I will conclude with the case of illegal immigration, because you have told us a lot and, unfortunately, you are not listening to us. And because we are moving to the next stage, to deeds, because what we say is practicable is not air words. And when the first day we entered here and in the election, so the world has honoured us with its vote and we are trying to deserve them every day, we say: "Send all those who have filled our country, illegal immigrants, on uninhabited islands." Some objections were raised at the beginning, then the idea gradually became blurred, entered into society, discussed in the government a little bit, some few less, some more. I mean, some of you guys are harder than that, some of you guys are better off. And we say this, as the President of the Greek Solution told you a moment ago, we have a plan with proposals that seriously change Greece, and we have a complete and costly programme and we have submitted to the National Representation a comprehensive study, which has drawn up a specialised group on the uninhabited islands today. In one and a half years with 16 to 22 million euros, only in the Macronese, they can accommodate, leave and go there, a hundred thousand illegal immigrants and the facilities that will stay there - because they will leave, they will go on a temporary basis until they become the license, so I answer your business "What are we going to do, lose the Macronis from them?" Oh, no. It will go one and a half months, two and a half, as long as it takes, and then we will all go away - and then we can be in prisons for hardcore, such as slaves, rapists, pedophiles and all of them. Take advantage of that. There is a report tabled by experts from our own. Take it and keep it up to date, because the situation has reached the unprecedented. And here's the media rot. The three-year-old, the thirty-five-year-old, Pakistani but Marcella. Marcella has a name. All the trash the rest had no name, they had a number, thirty-three, thirty-five, thirty-six, Pakistani. Don't they have names? Do they have names? And only Marcella has a name. Did you see what happened with Pakistani at my place? That's where I come from, from the Preveza. These are daily short stories that don't reach our ears. This is Greece, unfortunately. And Pakistani hasn't seen him, we haven't seen his mugs, see who he is, who did it before, and they caught him, and he's done it before. And I connect it to the Greek asylum office. Is there any reason, gentlemen of the government, for the evidence of illegal immigration to be relevant until February 2020? March, April, May, June we have no evidence, they haven't been informed, I didn't find them. Until February. Of the ninety-seven thousand we have right now, thirty-three thousand are Afghans, thirty-eight thousand are other countries, seven thousand Iraq and seventeen thousand Syrians. This is Greece that you probably dream and vision. We do not see this Greece, starting with the issue of 'NOVARTIS', continuing on our national issues and ending up with the huge issue of illegal immigrants. We are here to tear down everything dirty, whatever rotten and old there is, with proposals, with political logic, which we present every day, with a lot of work, at the National Representation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr Heta, and respect for the time. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot ignore what is happening in a Chamber of Parliament as a parliamentary representative and what the Greek people are discussing these hours. However, I will not overturn the time and size of my speech by heterogeneous definitions from the institutional downhill of the previous government. The main and largest part of my speech will be related to this bill and to the wider issues it raises. However, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of what is being discussed in the public debate on the revelations relating to the Minister of the previous government and his activities, I would like to put forward four points on which no one is entitled to be present. Is it possible that Minister would urge an innocent man to tell another innocent man, who was also acquitted by court, to lie to a third innocent person who happened to be the wife of the then-in-law Chief of Officerial Response and today Prime Minister? Is this possible in a democracy in a Member State of the Eurozone? Secondly, is it possible for the Minister to say about his colleague making money? Thirdly: Is it possible to say that it has'magaz' which, while it does not conflict with the wider'magaz' - which he then revealed to us that he meant SYRIZA - is all right, but when he clashs with the main'magagaz', the small'magaz' must retreat? Fourthly, is it possible for the Minister to tell a prosecutor that he has her for the errands, that he will call on her to tell her what to do and tell him what he does to give her advice, for what the executive authority should do in court? Anyone who does not fight for the future of this country is outside the framework of a National Representation. These are very serious issues of an institutional political nature which no serious person should do that does not see and hear. We have a long time and we have special institutional procedures to discuss these. I'm stopping here. I now come to the issues of today's sitting and take the floor from the presence of Mr Stavoura and Mr Zavvos here. I am speaking just before the Minister talks and based on his speech yesterday on the Committee on Economic Affairs, on the seven liquidity instruments he mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to have a common conscience on these seven instruments. We are representatives of the people, we all come from constituencies which citizens have many problems of economic content, and we need to know what the state is doing about them. First tool - Mr. Staruras says - is the returnable advance. Our representative, Mr Katrinis, did not hesitate to record it as a tool which is working without being hampered by bureaucracy. He did so at the first meeting of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs on the issue of micro-credits. Mr Stakoura's second instrument, liquidity support and that. Tax and social liabilities suspensions you don't pay, you have money, you have a form of liquidity. Fair for taxation, not always right for insurance, because many times, Mr Minister, it is not possible for the professional to know what to pay as an insurance contribution and pay nothing. This is a situation you have found, you did not say it when you took it as a government and now you collect it, because you are a year in government and every criticism of the citizen is justified. Do you want to pay? They don't tell you how much you owe for insurance contributions. So you guarantee liquidity from the weakness of the state, not from the implementation of policies. Third source: The interest subsidy for all the business loans where you have rightly provided an extension to cover the relevant resources, since it has not so far been. Three out of three. So far we're going well. Let's go to the fourth source: the move capital under the entrepreneurship fund II of TPIX II, but it has a lot of problems and indeed red tape. Too many rated beneficiaries don't get their money. The problems in this fourth source of liquidity in the day-to-day operation are very large. I was in Zakynthos yesterday for my professional obligation, and the hoteliers there told me about TEPIX II. I know what I'm saying, not in terms of economic tools in theory, but I know what people need them too. It takes the initiative of the Guarantee Fund of the Hellenic Development Bank with the problems that exist with the number of applicants. We'll see about this. So, three sources are all right so far. The fourth and fifth have not yet produced the results we are discussing at the National Representation. You have the initiative. That's a brave down payment reduction. We've been saying this since last year, but that's what's gonna happen. It has not been done, it cannot be recorded in the data in the response to the financial crisis created by the pandemic. Seventh initiative: the new institutional framework for microfinance, which I will make specific reference to in my speech from now on. So from seven, we say 'yes' for three. We will see for the four, Minister, what results they will produce. Critical size, then, is liquidity in the market. We've said it. Exemplary is Mr. Katarini in his positions and our party as a whole, but here there is no party in the House who objects to this. There is now a dialogue on loans and grants. Okay. We are progressing realistically. But let's see, Minister, how you think about micro-credits, micro-finance. First of all, the State Secretary responsible, Mr Zavvos, was introduced some time ago as well as the "HERAKLI". He is not "walking" or "heraklis". The same doubts we rightly have on the subject of this draft law and micro-credits, and you will allow us to develop them. This instrument is supposed to be a means of market assistance by means of a direct and avoidance tool. It's a means of avoiding toddlerism. But the formation of the interest rate as this will emerge - we will hear what you will say - and the comparative data here are not enough to talk to the public, that is, what is happening in other countries of Europe. Comparative data is about science and politics. The day-to-day economy doesn't concern her. He who needs money and has many problems in his relationship with the banks will hear it as a relief, as a small financial aid, but the interest, the interest rate as it will form contractually, let me say that it can be a back-up factor, because it can be for the sense of everyday economic activity as a tactic in his hearing. So nourishing private capital, quick outflow, interest rate? That's a question. In practice, however, I have some doubts more as a professional than a politician. Are there any available businessmen? In this skeptic market, in this skeptical and suspensive, most of our support for the economy, will there be the easy ones to lend their money, even if the interest rate will be contractually determined and sound for the lender? I don't know. How much money will that be? If I accept what Mr Katrinis says, that of the 18 billion applicants to obtain loans from entrepreneurship funds, from the Guarantee Fund, from the large programme, 70% must be unique applications rather than requests made to more institutions, then market needs are very great. What will be the offer in this regard? Uncertain! Of course, however, it is the delay in introducing this financial instrument, which we do not doubt is useful and which is why we are voting on it. But, uncertainty is its usefulness in practice and I ask you very much to accept this concern, because only an unreasonable man who knows the Greek data would not accept it. I'm general, since we're talking about small-scale credits. Let's go to the banks. In my dialogue here in the House with Mr. Georgiadis, the issue of the bank observatory was raised, where the outflows are monitored. We have the European Central Bank to advise the banks in the euro area to lend, we have Mrs Lagard herself saying 'loans', as we have the encouragement of our central banker to say 'loans'. However, the Observatory would identify the cases of credit institutions which do not operate in the context of the needs of the Greek economy. This debate took place a month ago. Observatory at the Ministry of Development, Observatory to the European Central Bank. Let's go to the results now. Was a bank located, which is reluctant to coordinate with the needs of the Greek economy? I can tell you that there are certainly too many of the citizens' protests. But have you located the main reluctant bank? Have you located the bank that's mostly trying to help the economy? What is your treatment for the banks that are moving well and for those who are moving poorly? Your Minister, Mr. Georgiadis, told us that the flow of funding will be greater towards the banks that are willing to understand the needs of the Greek economy and small or very limited, at the level of extinction, for banks that do not help the Greek economy. What, then, did the one-month observation show? Say it here openly! And if you do not want to say so that you do not harm banks, please tell the parties' rapporteurs, because we have an image, but we cannot have the image that a government has a observatory. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is an Observatory. What does this Observatory observe? What has so far been observed and what are the changes in the flow of funding to credit institutions in the areas where we have programmes, central governments and Europeans, which are moving? What change and adjustment has been made? So far no one, but nothing! On the contrary, we have identified, the market has identified, a number of bureaucratic obstacles relating mainly to the ESDP, which other than these are Greek and others we recognise and underline are European. Things are not moving fast in this area. The central banker told you what PASOK has said first, Mr. Constantinople two years ago, that a Bad Bank needs to be created. You were telling us populists then, SYRIZA used to tell us populists and you smiled. It is therefore time for the European Central Bank to tell you, it is time for the European Central Bank to tell you. I read very interesting texts the day before yesterday, such as Mr Xydi in Kathimerini, entitled 'Bad Bank: a one-way road', as long as it is properly done. We agree. Don't do it? Mr. Undersecretary, it sounds like you're against it. You have a chance at the National Representation to tell us. But I do not understand why you are opposed when the non-creation of Bad Vank is the main cause of distrust in banks to monitor the needs of the Greek economy in fear of increasing their red loans from 70 billion to more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u102	Please complete, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u103	Also, you have not yet given any solution to the issues that have created the very correct measure of non-covering the cheques the issuer can't cover the amount it has signed. That was a very good measure and we discussed it here at the beginning of the pandemic. However, with regard to the derivative problem that created a proper measure, the lack of liquidity for what was the recipient of the check that cannot be covered, you have not answered it, you have not solved it. You haven't overlooked a policy. I should like to close, Mr President, with a stigma that I think the National Representation should listen to. By telephone with the Minister of Development on such matters, I heard him fight on the phone. When I asked him, "Who are you saying this to?" he replied to me "with the banks". Is it possible for the government to wish, all the parties in this House to say that this is how it should be done, that banks help the Greek economy and appear with you incapable of producing what we all want together? I think this is a picture of a failure. You're late, we're late. Minister of Finance, I tell you, because I have not failed to say that you have been the first Minister of Finance since the crisis broke out in 2009, which is talking to the House about the private economy. All your predecessors were talking about national accounts, plus money and everything else. You are talking about the private economy that produces wealth for distribution and to meet the needs of the Hellenic Republic. Are you not telling me, have you imagined how the market will work in September and October, when there will be no more expectations, but only a record of results from the tourist season? I'm telling you it's not working. And I don't come from glaukas, but when we enter July and our islands are empty and rely only on domestic tourism, imagine what will happen in September when we are now about to make an account. And if Mr Retsos is right about what he predicts, namely how much money will flow from the operation of tourism, which his assessment is really disappointing, then it turns into a global economic problem, a problem of the present, but also of the next budget, and ends up becoming a very big, political problem. We understand the difficulties - and I close with that, Mr President - and we are not populists to ask you to square the cycle. But we are obliged as opposition to detect the problems, to try to turn dialogue from economic to political, because here is the Greek Parliament, and to try to make assessments without populism, but if they are confirmed, then the country will have an economic problem, and this will become a political problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that two parliamentary representatives, the Minister and the two Undersecretaries have not yet spoken. My fellow Members who have fallen short of speaking are about thirty. With this House's permission, I would suggest that we do six instead of seven minutes at their disposal to speak. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u105	The House has agreed. Mr Manosos Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr Voloudakis, you have the floor for seven minutes, but we'll put six.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I note that you will show time tolerance, so that I can also note that it is recently customary when Parliamentary representatives are going to speak, the ministers will be told, so that the Member on the list will not be surprised to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u107	Don't worry, there'll be tolerance. No one's gonna interrupt you. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u108	All right, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not used to speaking from this step on matters outside the agenda. But what we have seen in the last few days requires anyone who comes to this Step to take a position, because the para-state we have seen in the past, the para-state that has tried to build the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict has many unprecedented elements for our country. It's unprecedented! And I say this, conscious of the fact that in our country we have seen scandals in other cases in the past. What we have never seen is this organised effort to create a mechanism that will salvage the state and which will also promote an agenda, at the same time as it will promote, to conduct business interests. That's what we saw. That's what the testimonies say. We've never seen this before. It is work, creation, achievement of the 'first time left', and it causes, ladies and gentlemen, nausea indeed to anyone who sees it. You didn't randomly choose as a partner, after all, the one you chose. It's no coincidence you're still friends and you and your top executives. In my opinion, justice must have the floor from now on. The indictment must be extended to include persons and offences, where appropriate, we have seen these days revealed for that greedy period. I now come to the micro-credit bill you bring, Minister of Finance. This is really an excellent initiative, because you are facing a very real problem in the Greek economy. You are facing the problem of companies that do not have access to the banking sector. You are establishing a mechanism by which small and very small enterprises can obtain credits of up to EUR 25 000 from companies that will be created, to cover precisely this lack of the Greek economy, this inability to access the banking system. It is an institution that exists throughout Europe, almost around the world now. To us it is even more important, because to us the banking system is not working properly. Minister, you and your staff have designed and implemented an exemplary response to the economic consequences of the pandemic. This exemplary reaction is really undermined by the way banks operate. It's the weak link of the system. Does this result from objective data? Is it due to red loans? Is it from the past and not today's practices? It's an investigation. I am not personally convinced that this is the whole problem, but that cannot be analysed at the moment. But what we have to say, Minister, is that the banks, which even today, directly or indirectly, demand the support of the state, cannot exercise their market policy, especially in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises. And I say that they are even now indirectly requesting the support of the State, even after the recapitalisations, because they are seeking to extend the regime of deferred tax calculated as capital. More than half of the capital of Greek banks is an accounting record, which is what? It is the tax they would pay to the profits they will have in some years, which the European Bank and the Greek state will allow them to write as capital. And they are now asking for an extension to this. Eh, they cannot ask for an extension of this and, on the other hand, for the criteria imposed on credits. So this gap is coming to cover the bill, and I think that is very important. I have two specific points on which I have observations - objections. I mentioned them in committee too. We talked about it. I have to say it here. Minister, I believe that it is not right for microfinance companies to be subjected to control, supervision of the Bank of Greece. And it's not right because it's not necessary, they don't accept deposits, they're not systemic risk. In more than half the countries of the European Union are not subject to such control. On the other hand, subject to the control of the Bank of Greece, they are forced to keep a political report to the Bank of Greece, which means costs. The Bank of Greece's supervision means operating costs for these companies, which will, of course, undeniably go through at which interest rate is paid. You have, in fact, left the Bank of Greece with the right to define in more detail what information it will request. This is, I believe, a threat to the cost of these businesses and you should see it, at least in how the Bank of Greece exercises supervision. I would like to address another point very briefly, which I think needs to be corrected. The beneficiaries of these appropriations are all people belonging to vulnerable groups, the vulnerable part of society, and rightly so. You have obtained in this law the wording of the Law on vulnerable groups including asylum seekers whose application has not yet been approved. That's a big problem, Minister. If anyone has applied for asylum and has not been approved and requests micro-credit, which he will receive when his application is rejected the next day, what will he do? Does the Greek state close his eye to stay here? There are, Minister, and national security issues still exist. We have recently seen Turkey's work on immigration for the purposes of its own foreign policy. Who ensures that no one comes, a foreign state, to fund, through a NGO providing micro-credits, the presence of people coming, seeking asylum, and before their application is judged, will they have taken money to stay here? It's a point that I think you should see. Besides, this bill introduces an institution that I believe can change to the best of the Greek economy, by strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u109	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Jackie from SYRIZA has the floor now. Then, if he wishes, Mr. Chakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of me and Mr Lebanese, whom I previously enjoyed on television bailing against SYRIZA, I cannot help noticing that the New Democracy preaching to SYRIZA and swinging the finger on SYRIZA about allegedly corruption is, Mr Lebanese, as if Osama Bin Laden had a lecture on the value of human life. Your party, the New Democracy, is intertwined with corruption over time. You, I would say, are a modern political necklace, which, every time it comes to political life, is plundered, literally, by public money with your friends, half of whom are running to save you and the other half to cover your tracks. It is, in fact, a disguised political audacity, and it is also a great anger, let me say, the scandal party, corruption and mismanagement, offshore and black political money to abdicate SYRIZA for corruption. Mercy, really! I'm coming to the point of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today, provided that it meets the real demands of the economy, could be a bridge to reconnect the real small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to the money market. It is a common secret that from 2008 until the beginning of the coronary pandemic, to be fair, banks, after having been resurrected with Greek taxpayers' money, then awarded seven and sometimes eight out of ten small and medium-sized enterprises and free professionals from borrowing procedures and thus from every access to liquidity mechanisms. This has led to the growth of the globe, the distortion of competition and the frustration of young entrepreneurs, as only those who could prove that they do not need the money could be borrowed. And to be fair, for ten years the European Central Bank's policy and criteria for lending fully dependent banks have been defined by their supervisory mechanisms. So, ladies and gentlemen, what is the qualitative difference and the uniqueness of this context? It is the fact that the European Commission and the European Central Bank, due to the pandemic, have suspended the strict restrictions and allow for a national strategy on State aid and bank funding. The bill on micro-credits that SYRIZA had already planned after our exit from the memorandum is a real key to the hands of each government that wants to promote the interests of the conservative majority of citizens rather than the few and the chosen ones. But only yesterday, in this Chamber, the Minister for Development and Investment said cynically that the government's attention will be directed to the great business by undermining any good intentions of the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three fundamental conditions without the fulfilment of which there is no point in discussing microcredits. Firstly, the level and range of variation in interest rates in combination with the criteria for setting the level of interest rates. If there are no explicit provisions in the law, and let this field be regulated by ministerial decisions, then they will actually have contributed to the establishment of a huge banking mechanism. Secondly, the supervisory role of the Bank of Greece follows from Article 15 of the bill. This raises two major questions in turn: firstly, how is it possible for the depositary to allow and supervise transactions with lesser criteria? Also, how is it possible to approve transactions up to EUR 25 000 which could, in many cases, be given on criteria similar to those followed by the banks and all this would not be a huge contradiction? Thirdly and most importantly, no quota requirements are laid down in the regulations of this bill for the benefit of micro-credits by category of activity and by age category of the professional or company. It is natural that if the law does not regulate this delicate issue, funds will prefer professionals and businesses with strong ‘service’ so that they can raise satisfaction claims against default by the borrower. Ladies and gentlemen, what, in my view, could prevent any potential distortions? It is a single one: the government's political decision to intervene, by using safeguards and transparent access rules, by using only a small part of its huge liquidity from now on and for an eighteen months in favour of low-priced borrowers. Rather than supervising the Bank of Greece, it would be well for the Bank of Greece to take over its expertise in establishing a flexible regulatory framework with the State's guarantee role. In this way and interest rates would retain themselves at sustainable levels, but would also gain access to the money market for thousands of borrowers who neither today can go outside the banks nor tomorrow will be able to go outside the fund offices. Ladies and gentlemen, as positive about the nuclear philosophy of the bill, I express my reservations and my suggestions by asking, Minister, to take these thoughts into account. We do not treat the bill as you have seen. But you too must not allow ambiguity to cancel the substance of the bill. Minister, in addition to the contribution made by the bill itself, I take the opportunity to comment on a holistic look - I think this is useful - the toolbox announced by the government to leverage the money that has arisen as a result of the relaxation of the rules of the stability pact because of the coronary pandemic. To date you have announced, in theory, seven financial instruments. One of these is the micro-credits that we are discussing today. However, I would like to dwell on the previous six which, in many cases, will also judge the volume of entrepreneurs and professionals who will need micro-credits. I say this because if the previous six strong credit flows were to function properly, then there will be very few and really small borrowers in real need. Sadly, however, you will soon be faced with the impact of the convicted distribution planning on the large volume of liquidity you will manage. Just yesterday, at the joint meeting of the Committees on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the tertiary trade union, GSE, was not even invited, in response to whose request the two committees were convened. This, Minister, is a bad oath because it justifies our fears that your insistence on offering large and cheap money to large businesses and your refusal to carry out direct state subsidies of small amount in a wide range of affected enterprises and professionals will lead to a complete congestion of the money market, what, instead of exempting the people affected from transporting non-wage obligations, you are stepping up the liquidity programme in the market. Because the obligations you are suspending are simply being delayed and in September you will have created a new generation of highly indebted enterprises and professionals. These debts because they are related to the public will function as a self-surprising prophecy of exclusion from systemic banks. As you well know, Mr Stakoura, anyone who does not have tax and insurance information cannot borrow from the banks. In fact, you will understand the scale of the problem that you have created when, due to the lack of insurance and tax information, the money-laundering money bills of which even expensively draws tens of thousands of small businesses and professionals today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u111	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude with this remark, Mr President. Minister, I do not want to be a bad spectator, but you are leading to a deadlock on the whole market, because even the loans that the few and powerful will receive will not be used in development and investment but as a damper for the vibrations caused by the fall of customers and their partners, who are the small and medium-sized ones and the professionals. It is clear, Minister, that the micro-credit bill is at risk because of how your economic policy and your neoliberal obsession remain the only financial instrument on the market. And that responsibility only belongs to you. Because we have publicly stated our detailed proposal with the "We Stay Upright" programme and have predicted exactly what the correct and acceptable use of financial instruments would be and how we could save the risk of collapse of the market. You have not heard us, and unfortunately the citizens will pay for it again. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Tsakalotos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the financial system could have called it a debate on the parallel financial system if that were not a problem, Minister. Mr. Drasakis explained that to you. We don't care about the name. I don't know why you've had your previous objections. The need for a parallel system, an alternative system other than systematic banks, comes from a very Orthodox economic theory. I'll remind you both - you'll know - that one of the most famous nobels Ben Bernanki got Nobel in part for his work on the 1929 recession. He explained that this crisis became more profound when small local banks closed down which could solve the problem of asymmetric information. What kind of problem could they solve? Avoid statistical discrimination. What does statistical discrimination mean to those who are not economists? That you're smacking them all together and you don't have the local knowledge to tell someone who's trustworthy of someone who's not trusted, someone who has a good idea or who has a good name on the market by someone who doesn't have it. So the need for a system beyond systemic banks comes from a completely Orthodox economic theory. I think it is strange that you have not understood it in the years of the crisis. I believe that, in the first and second memorandums, one of the major mistakes that you did not make of the importance of saving the Agricultural Bank, of saving the Post Bank, of boosting cooperative banks, because they could really help you and we later in development. Microcredits are a part of a parallel alternative system that can help businesses. I and Giannis Drasakis have been discussing this since at least 2009 as a proposal. We have made a number of objections. You've told us about the interest rate. It's not a question where the truth is here or there. I mean, whatever you do a problem, you solve a problem, you leave it alone. Our proposal is - we will table it in an amendment, but we are open to the debate - that the Minister of Finance can judge, if necessary, when he has the information on how things go and that he can put a ceiling on the interest rate. Because it is not certain that there must be a ceiling in advance and that everyone will be on the roof immediately. And so it will produce the opposite results from what we and you would like. But we're open. We remain critical of Article 6 and surveillance. There's a conversation. We'd like you to look into it again. None of this, however, seems to me to be strong enough to undo our decision to vote in favour of the draft law. I think we can discuss other things on Tuesday and find a solution. I talked about microcredits. I talked about the parallel alternative system, too. But I think it is also an opportunity to start a very serious debate on the official, systemic banking system. Worldwide he had a great responsibility for the 2009 crisis. I don't think anyone would argue in this Chamber. I do not think practice has changed too much since 2009. I think that colleagues and colleagues who are not economists would be afraid of seeing the balance sheets of the large systemic banks. And while in their books they'd imagined they had deposits, they'd see they'd be on derived tools. They'd be afraid of this going on. They would be afraid of how much the official, systemic banking system is still engaged in speculative activities, which have a great private advantage, but a very small social benefit. You would be afraid of how far the official banking system in the world is from what we are learning to newly-born, secondary students, who the basic work of the banks is a mediation job, get from those who have savings and give them to those who want to make investments, that is to say, engage in the real economy. You will tell me that all this criticism I have made about banks and how they deal with speculative activities was not so much about the Greek banking system. I can hear that. Yeah, but we had different problems too. We had different problems in the banking system, how it worked with the opacity it created. But is it an opportunity now that we are trying, with things that we, with things that you do, to resolve the banks, to see what a banking system we want and how a debate is taking place with the banks to favour the real economy? I really think this is a great opportunity. I hope self-regulation no longer plays. That's what we've learned. You must be an extreme neoliberal to think that the story of the past twenty years is that banks can regulate themselves. I think all the experience we've had says otherwise. We have learned how we can talk again, how not to go back to the bad client's past that you told the banks "invest here, invest there, don't lend there, don't lend here", but how can they participate in a debate that we can have priorities and serve the real economy and the government's development plan. I think that we are returning together with keinism and budgetary intervention - which you have all become keinists in your old age, I do not know if you were smaller - to some needs that are not just a question of demand, but is a matter of how the banking system can serve the development system. We'll have ideas. I'm sure they'll be different from yours. However, this is a necessary debate. It is necessary, however, to the point where a development plan exists, where the plan is not that we are in general entrepreneurship, we take the obstacles to investment and everyone invests wherever they want, when they want, without any plan. So the first thing there is is to have the development plan. You know I've made some critical thoughts about the scientists' committee you commissioned for this job and how this committee of scientists will be able to have some views on the recovery fund that comes. I think our concerns are reasonable, because they are the economists themselves who in the crisis, but also before the crisis, they said things that I think no longer fit. We cannot put people where their main idea was the privatisation of the insurance system or that we have too many in the public sector. They still say about the health system that we have overnumbers and that we need to reduce it? It is possible to have a very good economist and a very good man - I have to say to you - but whose basic idea of unemployment is that the unemployed cannot connect to the entrepreneurs, why is friction? And that's 17%, 20%, 25%. Is that the main problem of the Greek economy? That is not the main problem either. It is a problem that I would like them to be economists who have studied the issue of inequalities and how they can deal with it. I would like economists, and not only - not to be imperialist - but also sociologists and scientists from other sectors who have an opinion on climate change and what this means to production and consumption. But that's not my main problem either. My main problem is that any development policy, whether it is from scientists or it is from the government, if it is not the property of society itself, will not be implemented. If we do not discuss with workers, with movements, with bodies, about making a reality and we do not have asymmetric information - to connect the end of the speech to the beginning - about what the problems are and what we are proposing, this development plan will not go ahead. I've talked to you some other time. The problem in Greece over the last thirty, forty years has been that we have not had the wise management of knowledge. I have given you a characteristic example: After 2020, too many economists were evident that we lost competitiveness within the euro. We, like Italy and Spain, had systematic balance of payments deficits and the Nordic countries systematically had surpluses. And it was systematic deindustrialization. How was the debate in society about how we overthrow this? What institutions have we created, either from PASOK or New Democracy, so that we can understand this problem first and then have a strategy to deal with it? This is not done either by a state or by a committee of wise men or by inspiration from ministers, whether they are yours, ours or others. This is only done with a systematic involvement with society, where there will be a desire to solve the problems. I think we are starting with development policy - you said, Mr Staikora, that we will discuss it and that there will be time to talk about it - and then we will go back to see the tools, that is, the goals. What we are talking about today is a good tool. The JRC is right to say that it is not enough if all the other parts of economic policy and social policy do not help it. But that is no reason not to support something that, given the other policy, I think it can help small businesses and is based on the idea that there are features of the Greek society and of the economy that we have to face. Small businesses are one of these key elements, and I think this bill does that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have repeated many times and proved to be life, the Greek Government has acted quickly and effectively, I would say decisively, to limit as far as possible the adverse effects and effects of the economic crisis. And he continues to do this with methodicity and responsibility. It proves every day, every week, that it has, implements and unfolds a coherent, realistic, integrated, but also a dynamic plan to support the economy, which each time takes account of new data evolving in everyday life, a project with four main axes: strengthening public health, strengthening business liquidity, strengthening employment and boosting social cohesion. As far as the liquidity of companies is concerned, I think we were able to discuss it thoroughly in both the committee and yesterday in two committees. It turns out that the government has activated and launched a multitude of alternative, complementary, important tools, as we have said, which have been repeated by some colleagues. I heard Mrs Jackrey, I heard Mr. Loverdos talking about these tools that I had actually raised last week. I could add two more we discussed yesterday. Let us say the 25% discount on debts and adjustments that will be paid in time or the 25% offsetting on VAT. These are additional tools, which all of them, the nine final tools, give liquidity to the real economy. And yesterday we had the opportunity to discuss with the banks, Mr Loverdos, so that there would be some clarifications, some updates, some further elements, but also specific timetables for how the banking system would go hand in hand with the Greek Government. With this draft law on the creation of a new microcredit framework, there is another tool offered by these nines that we have said, the strengthening of business liquidity, especially the very small and small businesses, a framework that the previous government has actually started to shape, but which, despite the fact that it has been put into public consultation since the beginning of 2019, never voted in the next six months and of course never did. The current government, the New Democracy Government, is moving on to its legislature, having included significant improvements, additions and corrections, as a result of public consultation, proposals from the opposition parties we have even continued today to discuss with you, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Greece and other bodies. The objective - and I am glad that it is a common goal - is to create a modern, effective tool, a tool that is coming to cover what Drasakis rightly mentioned, the financial gap, which really exists in business and is affecting, above all, those who are at the start of business. What is the basic principle of the bill? That this framework under discussion has been based on the European Code of Good Practice for the provision of micro-credits, provides the opportunity to raise funds of up to 25 thousand euros and is aimed at micro-enterprises, natural persons for the setting up of micro-enterprises, natural persons for individual business, social and solidarity economic operators, as requested by the Opposition, to people who want to train to enter the workplace, to individuals belonging to vulnerable social groups. As I said in committee, we believe that this draft law after the debate and consultation that has taken place contains many positive elements. First of all, it's coherent. It is consistent because it incorporates provisions that ensure its functionality and effectiveness. It's compatible. It is compatible with European practices, as I will soon analyse. It is realistic without creating strange legislative and heavy structures. And, indeed, Mr Chakaloto, we have a question in the sense of a 'parallel banking system'. I'd understand the parallel credit extension. I would understand the parallel financing of the real economy. The concept of a 'parallel banking system', however, will allow me to say that it concerns me and concerns me because it can lead to and create the phenomena which you and Drasakis have said before, i.e. customer logic. And because you spoke about the banking system, I would like to tell you that the European Central Bank has carried out financing checks on non-systemic banks and the period when you were in the Ministry of Finance, with very unpleasant results on how loans were granted by non-systemic banks. So here I think we can agree. I am pleased that Mr Drasakis said that you do not like the term 'parallel banking', to put another one. But I am explaining why you caused the government to think about the concept of a ‘parallel banking system’. Watch out: a parallel banking system. I repeat at the same time a credit extension so that a non-bank can also grant credit, as we are doing today, obviously, parallel financing of the real economy very clearly, but at the same time a banking system leaves suspicions that anyone can enter customer reasonable. It's social. It is social because it is estimated that it can contribute to the recovery of extreme social inequalities and contribute to tackling unemployment and social exclusion. It's innovative. It is innovative as it introduces a new, modern and dynamic tool of credit. It is strict to ensure transparency and there is no customer logic. It is attractive, since specific tax exemptions are provided for in order to provide incentives. Finally, it is flexible to strengthen entrepreneurship, limit the paradox and promote healthy business culture. The draft law lays down rules, rules concerning the taking-up, pursuit and supervision of the micro-credit activity, rules on the transparency of terms and requirements for information on their lending activities and the rights and obligations of both beneficiaries and micro-credit institutions. In particular, provision is made for the establishment of microfinance institutions. A framework is established for their authorisation and supervision by the Bank of Greece. We have looked at the best European practices. Most countries supervise this system by their central bank. Indeed, as colleagues have said, there are countries not supervised by their central bank, but they have strong other supervisory mechanisms. This is not easy for you to do a strong supervisory mechanism at the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Development. That is why we went to the safest solution to have exactly the guarantees of security. Microfinance providers operating in the form of an exclusive or urban company shall be established. We were broadening this framework after the debate we held here. Persons in the public sector may, however, participate in these companies with a percentage not exceeding 60% of the company's capital. Here, indeed, was an interesting one. Because a colleague asked "truth, is there an interest?" he has so far expressed interest, first of all by entrepreneurs and by legal persons governed by public law and by wider public sector bodies. We were troubled by the fact that there is a possibility that the Greek state could finance a body and the body would then go to finance its members, so in fact a financial gap would arise in the future. That is why we have put the provision that we have all discussed in committee, but with 60%, so that there is also a private contribution to secure the Greek public's resources. We said that a minimum starting capital is required for institutions at the time of authorisation, EUR 250,000. Throughout the period of operation these institutions shall be required to hold own funds, at least equal to the initial capital. There shall be a check of the suitability of persons holding a qualifying holding and exercising control of the institution. The fitness check is being introduced - and we have taken it as an amendment - so that the persons involved in the institutions are properly qualified, trained, trained, given the status of assets and experience. This is how we believe that the proper functioning and transparency of the microfinance institution is being strengthened. Specific tax exemptions are granted for the purpose of providing incentives, such as the paper-paper exemption and the exemption from the contribution of L.128/1975. A register shall be kept on the official website of the Bank of Greece, which shall register the authorised microfinance institutions based in Greece and provide for transparency in the loan terms relating to the interest rate, total cost, number and amount of instalments, the duration of repayment, the content and cost of the advisory services, the rights of complaint, the procedure for collecting unpaid debts and the procedure for extrajudicial settlement of disputes. It is laid down that the repayment period of the microfinance granted may be between 12 months and 10 years. Institutions shall not be allowed to receive collateral collateral for the provision of microfinance and in addition to the provision of microfinance, institutions may provide beneficiaries and consultancy services with management techniques, support for the resolution of legal, tax and administrative problems, as well as guidance thereon. There is also provision - and I think this is a good provision of the Ministry of Finance - with legislative improvements that we will be tabling today - for very few legislative improvements - for the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Greece to draw up annually a report on the implementation of the microfinance framework to be submitted to Parliament. This proposal will enable both the Ministry and the House to assess the institutional framework for the operation of the institutions and to take appropriate corrective steps to ensure that the institution succeeds and operates proliferationally for the national economy. So another provision for transparency and for information to the House. At this point I would like to point out and repeat that the Government has examined in detail what is the case in the other European countries that have already made progress in legislating a relevant microfinance framework, such as France, Italy, Portugal, Romania and other countries, and has incorporated best practices into this draft law which are, however, compatible with Greek reality. Indeed, as Mr Chakalotos said, country-by-country variations are very great. But there are some common elements, which have also been incorporated into the government's legislative spirit. There is an issue, an open issue that the government has chosen and is among the legislative improvements. There was the question of whether there would be or would not be a limit, some ceiling at the microfinance rate. At the hearing of bodies, the Government had a position not to have that limit. At the hearing of bodies, both parties and bodies, a certain limit was requested. Today the State Secretary responsible came and tabled a thought, a thought, to discuss a possible limit. I would like to say to you, because I have all the data in France, for example, that the limits depending on the size of microfinance under or above EUR 3 000 are interest rates from 14% to 25%, so there is no common uniform rule. And we ended, after I even discussed today with opposition parties that we will be in the same position, we will remain in the same position as there is no limit, but a proposal will be added, "with a decision of the Minister of Finance, a ceiling of microfinance interest rate can be set at any time". We will not wait a year, we will see how the market works and then we will intervene. Proof of the difficulty of the matter is that between colleagues - horizontally, all parties - I hear different approaches. Mr Tsakalotou's approach was very close to our own approach, the one we made in the bill and we enriched. Mrs. Jackie had another point of view, she wanted an interest rate. So we understand - and I say this very well - that this is something for which there is no best European practice. We have therefore chosen to follow this path, precisely so that all companies do not go to the maximum of the potential ceiling that we would have and every time the Minister for Finance will be able to set a microfinance interest rate cap. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the government proves in practice that it continues to support the business community, especially small businesses. For their part - I will say this today, I repeat in every speech - and businesses have responsibilities, have their own responsibilities and have their own share to ensure jobs, boost productivity and competitiveness and the successful transition of the Greek economy to a new development model that ensures a high, sustainable and inclusive rate of economic growth. In other words, companies need to take the lead in the transition to a new production and development model based on high-value products and services, extroversion, research and innovation, endogenous sources of development in areas where Greece has a comparative advantage. This is the key to us, so that together - state, businesses and workers - we can achieve the growth leap that the country needs and set solid foundations for a better future. Two reasonable concerns have been raised by Mr Tsakalotos, and I would like to tell you that we have these too. I have spoken to the Greek Parliament many times about the challenges of the banking system or recently in the Committee on Economic Affairs I challenged the committee to have a debate at the end of August, where we will have more data, on the development model that the opposition parties value as having to have. Starting with the banking system, I want to tell you that we cannot discuss the banking system. And I have produced a debate in the past, both in plenary and in the committee on the banking system. And that's why Greece is a bank - based country, we're not Great Britain. The transfer of funds from surplus to the deficit units is essentially made by the banking system. So it is very important that we have a healthy, robust banking system, in fact a financial system. In Greece we had a fiscal crisis that led to a banking problem, a big banking problem, in which banks themselves bear a share of responsibility. We tried to stabilise the banking system in the past few years. During our assessment, some mistakes have been made in the past with top management of the banking system in the first half of 2015. That's why we led to an unnecessary third recapitalisation of the banking system. But the point is to see it from now on. Today, therefore, we have a banking system that managed to significantly reduce its red loans over the previous period, which a credit institution, Eurobank, completed its accession procedures to “HRAKLE”. Today we also have final decisions from other institutions. We have an increase in deposits, in contrast to the past, but at the same time we also have the Krone crisis, with all possible costs being created in the management of red loans. At the same time, we have challenges regarding the balance sheet structure of the banks, active, passive and capital, which Mr Voloudakis has talked about in detail about - we have the banks' profitability sources, the bank pl and how we will ensure high and robust profitability, we have the international regulatory framework that should be incorporated into the country, we have the stress tests that went back, but we will, we have the investments to be made in technology. So we have enough challenges in the Greek banking system. I think it has been stabilised in many respects, but we must discuss them at any time in committee and in plenary with the State Secretary responsible, Mr Zavvos, I am at your disposal to do so. As far as the development plan is concerned, I have a point of view, I have a philosophy and I will end in half a minute, Mr Colleague, because I see you are fighting when we are going to finish. In any case, I am talking about the subject of the 'development plan'. It's just that you didn't talk about it. I have the opinion that we should listen and we should all listen. I am one of those who want to listen to scientists, I want to hear opposition, I want to listen to institutions, but we appreciate what we hear and what the Greek Government decides every time. So we will listen, I challenged the debate to listen to the opposition. A basic objective is more wealth, another composition of wealth and a fair distribution of wealth. We want higher GDP, with greater participation in investments which will all be distributed more fairly in society, in terms of economic efficiency and social return, with the basic principles of social liberalism, the social market economy. We owe it to the next generations. I am optimistic that we will succeed, with faith in our forces, with solidarity, morality and hard work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Anna Happily from New Democracy is now being called to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises is, unfortunately, still the achilles heel of our banking system. This is also recorded in the 2019 GATT survey on small and medium-sized enterprises, where it is estimated that in relation to the European Union average for the period 2008-2018, Greece has far the lowest deviation in the funding access index. I think that, following the banks' recapitalisations in our banking system, the conditions for loans should have been more flexible, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. That is how I think the relevant ministers are doing and are pressing in this direction, and they must continue to press, because it is very important to open the round of loans on the right terms and in the right directions. Exactly, then, this attempts the bill to heal. And it comes at a time when after two relapsing crises that hit the Greek citizen, there has been an obligation to provide greater liquidity, to all those who otherwise will stay behind, to stay out. There is no need to support the vulnerable groups of our population, who want to start even a small business unit, such as the student who ends the university, such as the young unemployed man who is anxiously seeking to join the labour market and cannot, like women and mothers who want to rejoin the labour market. And this need is becoming even more urgent because of the coronary crisis. In a statement of the situation in small and medium-sized enterprises, seven out of ten companies consider that the most important problem facing them after the lifting of the restrictive measures will be the lack of liquidity. In the need for this, this bill responds. The aims of the bill are to facilitate the start-up and development of new business, to integrate a large part of the working population into the system of productive economic activity, and, of course, the crisis that we are going through makes the demand for a reduction in social exclusion even more urgent. That is why the government is aiming at strengthening the unemployed and vulnerable social groups by all means. In particular, this bill seeks to enable those vulnerable sections of the population, such as young people and women, to start a new page in their lives, to start a new activity, to find this small financial support so that they do not stay outside the labour market. At this point I would like to emphasise the role played by small and medium-sized enterprises in both the economy and the labour market. They play a central role in the Greek non-financial economy, as they produce 63.6% of value added and 82.5% of employment, going beyond the European average in both these sectors. Of particular importance to the Greek economy, especially in the field of employment, are microenterprises. I am talking about enterprises with less than ten employees. In particular, these enterprises provide almost six out of ten jobs, far above the average of three out of ten jobs in the European Union. So we support these operations with this bill. These businesses are also a healthier part of the Greek society, for which I have the same understanding of both my involvement as a lawyer with small and medium-sized enterprises as well as because during the Koroni crisis I have been in contact with many bodies from these enterprises in order to learn their problems and to be able to help in their efforts to strengthen the government's work. I would also like to say at this point why we should strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises. First, because there are no such systemic risks as are present in the operation of banks, which are typical of the collection of deposits. It is also because they are direct companies because large investment is important and this government and the Prime Minister has made a great deal of progress in facilitating procedures and making them more rapid. However, it always involves a greater risk: either the risk sticking or the risk of not delivering the expected risks. On the contrary, small and medium-sized enterprises have less such a risk. Therefore, they have more direct efficiency and perhaps at this point we should review the economic model that we should support. Because we saw through the crisis that the two pillars of the Greek economy that are tourism and shipping were directly affected by the coronary. So we have an additional reason to move forward and to support direct-efficiency investments such as small and medium-sized enterprises. I won't be long. I would like to say a few words about the characteristics of this bill. Firstly, there are no safeguards. Very important, because it is a big brake for small and medium-sized enterprises. All necessary safeguards for transparency are also in place. Specific conditions for both the licensing and the withdrawal of the licence, as well as specific conditions for supporting the rules on money laundering. Here I would like to emphasise the fact that advisory services are provided, and that is why there is also the advisability that the micro-credit provider obviously wants to direct the beneficiary in the right direction, because there are not many safeguards, but because the aim is not only to open up, but also to ensure that businesses are viable. This is because, for small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece, it is not only the start-up phase, but it is also the scale-up stage. Unfortunately, in Greece, a small proportion of enterprises are growing rapidly. I would like to say at this point that this bill has resulted from consultation and dialogue between the Minister and the Secretary-General responsible, which has also been incorporated by capital and urban companies, the initial capital has been reduced to EUR 250,000, and social security institutions have also joined. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is an innovative, rigorous but not heavy, attractive and flexible bill on the one hand, but on the other hand, companies are also being asked to make responsible and efficient use of state aid and to assume their own share of responsibility in ensuring jobs and in boosting productivity and competitiveness. Finally, it is under this bill that the main objective of entrepreneurship policies cannot be just an algebraic increase in the number of start-ups created in an economy, but more than a targeted effort to influence these quantitative characteristics of these enterprises so as to be sustainable, to support sustainable and green growth, innovation and provide several jobs, several and stable jobs in our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u119	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr. Antonios Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stagioras has unfortunately left. Throughout his speech the Minister - since you are here, I believe, or will listen to me - reminded me of the Finance Ministers at the end of the 1990s when we had the destruction of the Greek people from the Stock Exchange. In the 2000s banks provided consumer loans, housing loans and low interest rates. You're coming now and what do you say to the Greek people? I give you the repayable advance on small and medium-sized enterprises, which, if they have not bothered you, I think they should be disturbed. At least one of those people who've asked for the return of the advance has received it. The banks you are their leader, because you are Minister, Mr. Zabves, have three times been recaptured by a "scan" billions by the Greek people, don't give loans and you come to put the Greek citizen in a separate tug. I will say it raw, because the people that are watching us will now say 'Oh, I, too, as a natural person, can go and get a consumer loan'. The Minister said this bill is a parallel credit extension. I would say, dear friends and dear friends, that it's an extra-banked toddler. Clean things. In fact, if you do not listen, why did the Minister say before? "We will not put a cap on the interest rate." So a company of Mylonakis S.A. will come. With EUR 250,000 share capital and I will tell Mr Yannis Loverdos that I see him in front of me: "Would you want a loan of EUR 25 000?". He'll tell me, "Yes, I want a loan." "Take it with 20%." Now that's what he told us, that abroad is from 15% to 25% the interest rate. Isn't that a toddler, Minister? So we're putting the Greek people in a process of new suicides? He commits suicide because the banks will take his home from September 1st. He took the loan, lost the job, reduced his income, can't give what he owes the bank. So what happens now? And he's going to lose his house and be a tenant in his house, and he's going to owe up the rest of the bank, which has been recaptured by him three times! These are the truths. At the same time, you come to implement, in addition to the project "HERAKLIS" that will end the Greek and Greeks from their homes, the other trick. Mr. Hatzidakis with PPC who all saves her and is not saved! What will PPC do now? He sells for a piece of bread - this must be heard by the Greek people, you will see that he will play from tomorrow, but unfortunately, he doesn't play on the channels, that's what makes me nervous and upset - the late sixty days of debts immediately - 300 million - and ninety days in September, Minister. And what will JP MORGAN do, this multinational robbery bank? And now you're making the crime rinse the domestic and international loan shark, who will come, bring the money, give it to the Greeks the poor man who has a very small businesspeople and who is a natural person and wants to get a consumer loan to study his child, get the first guarantee of three, four, five grand, put him a loan-cash interest, get him the house. Why don't you tell me that he'll give a loan without having a guarantee! If you believe that, then tell me how a company will come with 250 grand share capital, which will give all its money, and then she'll expect to get nothing, because she won't have any guarantee, because the other company won't have to pay her. Isn't that a toddler? You're coming to make another crime, and I think that you might answer, because Mr. Staruras didn't answer. I was also impressed by the fact that, apart from the Greek Solution, the rapporteur, Mr Villiardos, and also Kostas Hetas, our Parliamentary Representative, yours, Minister, said so as well. Manos Voloudakis, a Leventis MEP of the New Democracy, said so, and he was applauded by Mr. Stagiras. Where are you going, he says, give the 25 grand? To illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants, as you say, who have applied for asylum? And if they leave tomorrow morning, where do you get the 25 grand from? Where will the company get it from? Mr. Vouloudakis said so, and Mr. Stagioras applauded him and left Mr. Stagioras. But, you know, this system that was left behind had to be here to answer how these people would get money, Minister, and who would pay the money. And isn't that bad thing going on? And I'm telling you, the great investor, the merciful Soros, is making ten companies and giving money to these illegal immigrants. What are they gonna do? Are they gonna do business? They're gonna do business. They're staying in Greece. So, do you have them to keep them permanently in our place? The Greeks are hungry, they lose their home, they cut off PPC, will "JP MORGAN" come and cut PPC in forty and sixty, and in ninety days, and the illegal immigrants will "buck them" with money? Mr. Loverdos said very well about the observatory. Did it ever work, Minister, the observatory? Tell us a bank controlled, a loan. No one ever. Fair enough. We're shouting. You don't hear anything. And what surprises me is that Christos Stavros, who I fully appreciate, had to give an explanation to all three of these things, and to the cap that he said you would leave it open - crime the great - and to the loan carving of legality, money laundering. It will come here to take them from the Greek citizens and they will be damaged, brainally, we will also have suicides at JP MORGAN that will cut people's current. Because in America when it was implemented in 2008, they have too many suicides from this thing the Americans. So, Mr President, we will not agree at all, unless the government immediately takes this absurd, crazy, to give up EUR 25 000 to illegal immigrants who are applying for asylum, to put a veritable, bankrupt, so that the other can take a loan and pay it back and, of course, to stop this absurdity of so-called European or global tug-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u121	Thank you too, Mr Mylonakis. Mr Lippe Athanasios has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill comes to a vote following an open discussion procedure in committee, where most of the remarks were recorded and incorporated, both of the Opposition and of the bodies called upon to table proposals. We all know that small and medium-sized enterprises are at the core of the economy, that it is the backbone of the Greek economy, that is, the family businesses, the flats. According to the OECD, small and medium-sized enterprises are 99% of Greek enterprises and most of them with fewer than ten people. Today's bill gives easy, immediate and, above all, uninterrupted access to financing for these enterprises, and even at the best possible time. The closure of shops because of the pandemic has particularly affected small businesses, which do not have the mechanism to adapt easily to the new more demanding circumstances. Today, the legal framework for micro-credits of up to 25 thousand euros is being established in this business sector. The funding will be provided not through the classic banking system, but by institutions in the form of a capital or urban company operating under the terms of this draft law. The authorisation and supervision of these institutions is entrusted to the Bank of Greece, which undoubtedly has the expertise and experience to manage this role. There is provision for an accelerated procedure as, within three months of the submission of the data, the Bank of Greece accepts or rejects the submission of the file and within four months the authorisation is issued. After the procedures in Parliament's committee, the institution's minimum initial capital must be reduced to EUR 250,000 in order to make it more accessible to set up such a company. Institutions shall be subject to audit by auditors or audit firms and where the conditions of the law are violated, administrative measures and sanctions may be imposed by the Bank of Greece. The bill describes, for example, the aims for which the EUR 25 000 will be allocated, such as investments, working capital, the acquisition of equipment as a guarantee, but not for another loan, and, finally, for strengthening public policies or for strengthening vulnerable groups, such as to tackle unemployment. The categories of persons who have access to financing have now been broadened and the social and solidarity economic operators, as well as micro-enterprises, those engaged in individual activity, vulnerable social groups, beneficiaries of public policy implementation programmes, natural persons to cover expenditure on education, retraining or in relation to apprenticeships have been taken into account. In the case of small enterprises, which often do not have qualified partners to guide them in better investment options, it is very important that the provision in the bill for advisory services to be provided by these institutions is very important. However, it is the main provision of the draft law which stipulates that the provision of funding does not require any kind of pecuniary security. The biggest problem facing small and medium-sized enterprises is that the banking system rejects requests for loans, claiming a collateral, which companies of this size usually do not have. It would in no way be possible to operate the new microfinance system. However, it is planned to be guaranteed, while the total amount of EUR 25 000 can be provided by one or more institutions, with a repayment period of between one and ten years. Finally, the other provisions of the bill stand out for the extension for 2020 as well as for the exemption of agricultural parcels from the obligation to pay HICPs, which is very important to our farmers. Also, the possibility of paying travel fees at last per month, a measure that is fair and at the same time will help increase revenues from cars that are still in motion. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is notable that the broad consensus achieved by today's bill is so wide-ranging. Despite minor disagreements or remarks, the political world and the world of the market warmly welcomed it. Today's provisions, combined with the overall government economic policy, satisfy the needs of the business world, give the liquidity that small businesses have lost to expand their activities, become more competitive and come out of the recent economic recession because of the pandemic. Most of all, however, they provide them with the key role they have in the Greek economy, maintaining existing jobs and creating new jobs, which is the main concern. Entrepreneurship finds the support needed to make the necessary re-start, meet the difficult challenges of the era and become a decisive stimulus to the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u123	I would like to thank Mr Lippe for his comprehensive and complete speech, of course in keeping with the timetable that we have set. I will now give Mr Tryphoon Alexiadis the floor from SYRIZA, and then the parliamentary representative from Mera25 will be given the floor by Mrs Fotini Bakada. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I listen very carefully to the recommendations of the Ministers, I listen very carefully to the speeches of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, I have also been told by doctors to avoid intense emotions and anxiety for obvious reasons. It's not easy to avoid, though. Because I am an institution, I want Parliament to function and I cannot get a dose of hypocrisy in here and I cannot hear the contradictions that I hear. Since the first day we have tried to prove - and we have proved it with political adequacy with our rapporteurs' speeches - that we support the bill because it is our own parliamentary child, it is our own processing, it is our political idea and that is why we are doing it well and we support it. We hear from the government, however, but rather from the point of view of other things, and I think that the title had to be changed. The title should have been: 'Just an officer's opposition lessons from SYRIZA' - because we do well and say what we say - and 'just a simple lesson in government dogmatism by the government', with a more specific speech by Mr Manussos. I don't want to say other things, so we don't have personal reports, etc. In fact, I was amazed to hear from Mr Stakoura - I heard it from other ministers of government - that we want to 'challenge', we want to 'hear', we want to do 'a dialogue'. Where did you see the dialogue, really? It's not personal confrontation. Politics is confrontation. We have asked questions in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Why don't you answer the questions? It is another thing to say 'I cannot answer'. I understand for obvious reasons that the question about the Bank of Greece cannot be answered. But we have just asked other questions. Why don't you answer? For obvious reasons you do not want to answer and this is a lesson for us, for issues of consensus and how we should deal with you. Will you answer the Scientific Service of the Parliament? I was expecting my expert, Mr. Loverdos, to take these issues in his speech and report them. The Scientific Service of Parliament in the report on the bill - I am an economist, I am not a legal person - raises specific issues. Please answer Parliament with institutional respect for the role of Parliament. What is stated by the Scientific Service of Parliament will you include in the bill, will you accept them or do you consider them to be wrong and disagree and reject them? That is to say, it says on Article 14, where it makes very good and makes comments to you, in Article 25, the word 'incorporates' should be replaced by 'pays'. In the famous article 30 - which is too many issues and I will come back - it says that 'it is noted that, for reasons of legal certainty, it would be appropriate to identify them, etc.'. What are you going to do on the subject of the upcoming speech, as well as on the huge issues of limitation referred to in Article 30? I am waiting until Tuesday for Mr Gerapitris to come and take the floor, with his legal scope and with his legal weight, to tell us: Is there a matter of limitation or is there? Is there a trap set up for retired people, or is there no trap set up? On the issues of the bill, however, three are the major problems that come over the next period: the great problem of unemployment, the great problem of private debt, the great problem of income. Three are the big problems that come. The most important thing for all is private debt. Why is the private debt? Because even if the question of unemployment or income is dealt with in any way, the question of private debt regulation will come to scan it all. If we do not solve, then, as a society, as a parliament, as a state, the private debt issue, we will have a very difficult period, a very difficult period for the economy, for us, for the insurance funds, for wages, for pensions and for pensions and so on. I asked you a question in committee, and I would ask you again if you would be moved and answered. In other words, with your press release, as the Ministry of Finance, you say that all the tax debts of natural and legal persons from March to September will be paid from October onwards. We still don't get an answer. Are you ashamed to give the answer? I'm saying again, Mr. Secretary, it's not personal to report. It's a government report. Politics are our differences, they're not personal. Since October, will money trees grow like the ones that grow for certain businesses, to strengthen or regulate their debts? Tell us where the money will be found from October onwards to pay the full amount of these debts? The 'twelfth' or 'twelfth' doses you say do not solve any problem. And because there is a problem of time, and because you and others must speak, I shall briefly put two other issues. You say with Article 30 and with a press release from the Treasury that you are giving a solution to the problem of the taxation of pensioners' retroactives. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is an issue of our respect as parliamentarians. We have put forty-seven Members of the Greek Parliament a question on this issue. I repeat, forty-seven Members. And he comes after the bill and has an article on it. Question: Will you answer this question until the vote on the bill or will you be placed on the questions we raise forty-seven Members? It is a question of respect for Parliament's own role. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude very quickly, Mr President. Also, because the representative of the Change Movement found that the Government respects the dialogue and that it gives answers, I ask: Will you give answers to the issue of limitation? We are very clear in our question about the limitation, as I said here in the House - a member of the tax administration, a former Member of the New Democracy, Mr Apostolis Kostopoulos, with his post on a social network. We are therefore asking the New Democracy to place it: Is there a matter of limitation or not? Because, if there is a matter of limitation, a trap is set up to seventy thousand pensioners, who say "go to apply, to make a new liquidation and to be subject to the procedures of the law". So, what if the public's right to collect tax has been abandoned? We are not in favour of limitations. Others celebrate and say "innocent the man because his case was dropped". We do not have that logic, but answer: Is there a matter of limitation or not? And because you come here and celebrate that the agencies and bodies have come and said things, they came here in the committee that Mr. Hanzopoulos did, the President of the Single Retired Network, and in a very clear way and with a calm and documented reason he raised the matter with you. And the other institutions of pensioners put it in place. Please take a seat, please, a lot: Is there or not such a matter? And if there is no such matter - and answer us - what are you going to do for all of them? Will you have seventy thousand retired people go back to office, reapply, get red tape again? Instead of dealing with big and very large control cases, should they deal with these cases, which are of low tax, if not zero, of interest? So we call on you what you say about dialogue and the acceptance of it. We call on you to respond to political issues. I am presenting to the Minutes to understand what your contact with social bodies means, a memorandum of five regional departments of the Chamber of Economics of Greece, the Regional Department of Eastern Crete, Western Crete, Dodecanese, Thessaly, the Northwest Peloponnese and western Greece, expressing all the accountants - tax and express all the requests of the Chamber of Economics. Clearly, people explain their problems to you. Look what terrible they're looking for at the end. Finally, they call for the following: "To this end, we request a meeting as soon as possible to inform you of the problems of the industry and to set together a realistic framework for their resolution". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiadis, presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Don't you dare come to plenary again on Tuesday, without meeting and without answering the political questions we raised and employing the whole society. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u125	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Bakadima, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. As a number of Members have still to speak, and I know that it has a planned committee in plenary at 18.30, I will try to use about half my time. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill introduced by the Treasury has the subject: 'The framework for granting microfinances, financial regulation and other provisions'. There are not few people who - and we hear it from a number of colleagues today - believe that funding, providing the possibility of raising capital to up to 25 000 and addressing micro-enterprises, natural persons who are responsible for setting up small enterprises, natural persons who are engaged in individual business activities, people who want to train in order to get into the workplace and people who belong to vulnerable groups and cannot receive the usual loan, can give the necessary liquidity, by moving business and business, especially the difficult period we are experiencing. In addition, we should note that in 2010 the European Microfinance Facility for PROGRESS was set up to increase the availability of micro-credits, i.e. small loans, as we said, under 25 000, for the establishment or extension of a small enterprise. This mechanism does not finance direct business, but enables selected providers in the European Union to increase the amounts they lend by giving guarantees to microfinance providers, thus jointly undertaking the risk of damage and financing the increase in the amounts allocated to microloans. In Greece, if we look at the data and the subject, financial intermediaries are, among other things, the National Bank, Piraeus Bank, Eurobank and others. But, and this is the interesting point, the possibility of this type of operation can be obtained even from non-banking microcredit institutions, but also from non-governmental organisations, even if there is still no enlargement and use of this possibility in our country. But am I really like that? Can micro-credits give the impetus that the companies affected need in Greece are needing, or can people who want to start a business are supported? Microfinance has existed in various forms for centuries and in the context of financial systems based on lending confidence. As a structure, the modern microfinance movement began in the 1970s and continues to be active for about 30 years. Soon he won a prominent position, especially in the 1980s and 1990s, and was implemented with too many programmes. I am not an economist, I am a historian, so I will try to approach it with a history, to see the history of micro-credits, to get to today. So the theory of micro-credits was applied in its current form by the "bank of the poor" and its founder Mohammed Yunus. Yunus had one belief: he firmly believed that access to credit is a human right that everyone should be able to exercise and that can improve their lives. While a journey in 1976, in a village in Bangladesh, he was helped him discover that very small loans could bring about a significant improvement in a poor man. His idea was born when he saw peasants washing baskets living in absolute poverty despite their skill. As the lenders considered that the craftsmen were very likely not able to repay a loan, they were extorted, forced to borrow money at a very high interest rate, to buy bamboo and after they had been paid they had virtually no profit, no profit. So he decided with his own money to start by giving $27 to a group of women who were part of their profession. And they slowly managed not only to pay back the funding they received, but also to have a small profit. In 1977, the "rural development project" was launched under the AGRAMENT programme, which was converted into the bank of the poor, in a banking institution in 1983. Yunus himself focused on a series of containment of banking activities, notably savings and small amounts of loans. He even chose to ask borrowers to organise themselves in small groups of about five and to gather, to discuss once a week, to see how they can go ahead with the repayment of their loans and to exchange thoughts on further use. And indeed, his programme succeeded, implemented in Bangladesh, in a developing economy and gave him Nobel Peace in 2006, precisely for creating economic and social opportunities for the poor, especially for women, through their innovative work in granting small loans and guarantees. But that is precisely why it has done so, because microfinance is mainly for developing economies without an organised financial sector, so that there really is a need to provide substantial capital and starting capital so that small businesses, small shops, whether this is focused on a bamboo market in Bangladesh, or on assembling bicycles or canats in India, Bangladesh and Pakistan for milk distribution and for small sales. If we go back to Europe now. It became known in central and eastern Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. In western Europe, however, the growth of the sector was more limited, despite the increased interest in its potential. It has deep roots in several institutions such as the Raiffeisen Bank in Germany, in loan charities in England, but also in Italy. There is no doubt in the West that this institution has taken a social signal, namely to provide access to financial services for marginalised populations, so very small or small percentage of the general population, with reference to social action, to programmes for the integration of the population, to the public and to the like, while in the developing world, which is now trying to come, financing is for everyone. It is not possible in a country such as our own, which is among developed countries, to put in place effectively a setback by overlooking that we are a country that has an organised financing system and that it is not possible to resolve the liquidity problem and the lack of capital for small and medium-sized enterprises to be a model that has been applied to a developing economy. We are afraid, unfortunately, that the legislation of micro-credits, especially given that intermediaries may be non-banking institutions up to NGOs, legalises the way in which a loan of up to EUR 25 000 can be granted by a businessman in need of capital. Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude by saying that we would not be negative if microfinance were aimed at strengthening social enterprises, but as it is a solution that is general to all citizens, especially in a country which is a member of the European Union and EMU, we should - we believe - focusing our efforts on the reorganisation of the banking sector and not on the legalisation of the taboo. And I will end with a very brief comment on the mud which is under way these days. It turns out that Mera25 wisely we decided not to take part in the game of converting Members to judges and prosecutors. Unfortunately, we have all witnessed a communal mudslide, which only aims to disorientate citizens from what is coming, from the fifth memorandum and from the economic crisis that comes. Merra25, wishing to continue to perform, to fulfil its parliamentary role, has consulted its own proposal for a law since Monday, in order to protect citizens against the effects of the growing economic crisis. As soon as the consultation is completed, it will naturally be launched and submitted to the House. It is extremely likely that we will not even discuss it, not even reach the plenary, and even if we are discussing it, that you do not agree with our proposals. However, in the context of the need for a fruitful dialogue, and above all because we are all elected representatives of Greek citizens, we must submit them and we will be here to discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u127	Thank you for keeping time, Mrs Bakadima. I will now give Mr Yannis Loverdos the floor from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with something said earlier by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Tsakalotos. He said: "You became cannesians in old ages." I assure you that in old age I remain liberal and remain liberal, as I think most of us in the New Democracy, but as liberals we are not dogmatic. In a major crisis there may be policies to be implemented by the state as well, and that is what the New Democracy Government did in the big crisis, the terrible crisis caused by the unprecedented lockdown that has never happened before in world history. Keinsianism is useful in some cases, as we have seen and after the United States' sharp recession in the 1930s. Then we had to implement such policies, but our central direction is and continues to be how we free entrepreneurship in our country, which unfortunately does not have a history of a strong economy and a market. On the contrary, in Greece over the years there is the state and we want to change it. The opposition said that we should insist on nationalist policies, and that was what my dear friend Alexiades said earlier: 'Where will the money be found to pay the businessman who is hitting his tax obligations after October?' What do you want, Mr. Alexiadis? What do you guys want with my friends at SYRIZA? Give the taxes to all the businessmen affected? Do you want the state to subsidise the private sector? That's unprecedented. In no country in the world is the state subsidising the private sector. Is that what happened once and I told you the truth? I am very sceptical about this policy that we were forced to pursue last March and April, a policy which leads to many learning to speak and say about state subsidies in the private sector. We know very well that it was a mandatory policy that cannot last for a long time. We know very well that these allowances have even been received by people who did not need them. The six in scientists and eight in the free professionals took it, and people who didn't need it. The State cannot support entrepreneurship with benefits. The state must support entrepreneurship in three ways: the reduction of tax and insurance contributions, which is the central axis of this government, the removal of bureaucratic obstacles to the economy and which, thank God, we have had many such bureaucratic and state-owned interventions. The third, which is very important, and that is what we are discussing today with this bill, is by granting liquidity to the market. The truth is that the granting of liquidity to the market is very difficult today in Greece for many and various reasons that we all know about. The banking system today is not working properly. You saw that from the measures the government tried to take on liquidity, the repayable advance worked. Indeed, the companies received money from the repayable advance they needed. The other with the loans guaranteed by the Greek State, TEPIX, did not work at all. To be realistic, it has failed miserably. A new businessman in Petroupoli told me the other day that he wanted to get a 15 thousand loan from the bank guaranteeing the state through TEPIX, went to the bank and said to him: "Yes, if you bring the 15,000 into a committed account, we will give you a 15,000 loan." It says: 'If I had the 15,000, I wouldn't need the loan'. This did not work, because the banks for their own reasons did not want to give the loans. So we need to find another way of strengthening this young entrepreneur from Petroupoli and many others throughout the country. Who's that? The government is bringing in a bill on microcredit. Is this bill going to work? I don't know. I think the bill is in the right direction. I have reservations about how it works. I have reservations, and I respect what has been said by Vice-Population Members about taboo. This can happen too. How will these doses be paid? At what rate? I understand the reservations the Minister has about the amount of interest, but there should be some interest rate. What will these businesses be? How will it be effectively controlled by the Bank of Greece? Aren't there going to be scams and scams? In Greece we live. There are a lot of questions and I therefore understand the reservations that have been made. That is why, while the bill is in the right direction, what I ask the government - Mr Zavvos - is that there is a need for a great deal of supervision, a great deal of attention to implementation and, above all, what is needed, and we have to say it is a need to make changes. We must not be dogmatic. If we see it's not working properly, we need to change the legislation again. In general, however, micro-credits are in the right direction as an idea, because only in this way will we be able to strengthen the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that is the heart of the Greek economy today and strengthen it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping time. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakova, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, they often say that capitalism as an economic system has the ability of chameleon. It may be adapted, mutated and solicited by any available tool and method in order to perpetuate it. Another was the operation of the economy at dawn, and another one is today. The system always operates and evolves on the basis of a dominant rule that is also its driving force, maximising the profit of capital. In the face of it everything goes away, international peace, people's rights, human rights and everything. The history of microcredits is well known. It started from Bangladesh decades ago as a mechanism that deformed the banking system and loan sharks to finance very small entrepreneurship. The idea of their inspiration, Mohammed Yuns, who became known as the banker of the poor, was then really far-reaching, for developing countries with a socio-economic delay. Micro-credit enabled parities to come out of poverty and structurally changed the potential of small local communities, creating growth literally from scratch. This idea gave him Nobel Peace in 2006. The award committee said, among other things, in its view, that lasting peace cannot be achieved unless a substantial part of the population does not ensure the means to get out of poverty and micro-credit is one of these instruments. Minister, what does all this have to do with your today's microcredit bill? Absolutely nothing. The Greek political system did not establish a microcredit system when the country really needed it as a growth lever. It started in Europe in 2001. But here, the banks' panorama was unnegotiable and the results were well known. Today, when the Greek banks are basically bankrupt, you come to institutionalise a microcredit system, i.e. loans of up to EUR 25 000. Why are you doing this? For growth? Only for joke could anyone say that today! The story of growth in Greece had glass legs, like all the lies of the political system and collapsed overnight. The results of the crime are well known and the Greek people have lived on their feet. It's the long night of the memorials. And in an economy dominated by the volume of public and private debt at this stage, with the Greek banking system dissolved, you just want to give a new scope for action and profitability in parasitic capital. Do everything you can to turn the way to the infamous funds with the project "HRAKLIS", to ensure them the ruthless speculation on the red loans and the properties of borrowers. And now you want to hand over all the winter-time professionals in the country, who have been excluded from the possibility of financing from the banking system, as a hordes of parasitic capital, to speculate uncontrolledly as common loan sharks on the back of all those who suffer the consequences of your own policy. Here there is no existential dilemma between legal and moral that has been afflicting you for years. Here legality is identified with immorality. This is the essence of your current legislature, the legitimisation of the loan carving in the debt colony called Greece. Do not try to hide the truth or beautify it with great words and false arguments, because it is in vain. This story will write, gentlemen of the Complex, that you are preparing to vote in favour of the bill. Of course, you'll have an alibi here too. The bill was first introduced by the previous government and put it in consultation by January 2019. That's why SYRIZA wants to claim his fatherhood. I would remind you that the initials mean 'Risk Left Coalition'. It is the same party that prides itself in establishing a Development Bank, only he forgot to give it money to operate. So radical and so left! Our party, Mera25, has tabled with real anxiety, ladies and gentlemen, an overall proposal for economic policy, to overcome the inevitable deadlocks that your own policy entails, but also your predecessors, as is required by the Memorandum of Understanding in the country. Our aim is to protect citizens and to reorganise the financial and banking system. Let me mention the main poles of our proposal. Retrieving national sovereignty in the country's budgetary policy. Abolition of the AAR operating under the supervision of the troika and non-democratic legitimacy. Re-establishment of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues in the Ministry of Finance, as well as the General Secretariat of Information Systems and Tax Software. Removal of the HARAKLIS project for red loans which constitutes a gift without pretext to predators funds and will cause an uncontrolled wave of auctions. Create a public private debt management company and implement a comprehensive plan, which we call "PESHA", to ensure the protection of the residence and, in general, the ownership of the borrowers. Abolition of the surplus fund and replacement of it by a national development company called "ATHENA", which will include the National Banking Participation in the position of the Financial Stability Fund to be repealed and the new Development Bank by the merger of TIDE and the existing Development Bank. Finally, public property must act as a basis for creating public and private investment flows. And finally, a new ex-banking system for financial transactions between individuals and public. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] For all this, we have a specific proposal for a law, which we have put into public debate, and I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, with real concern for the present and future of this country, anguish which, unfortunately, is intensified by every bill you bring today. We cannot support this, of course. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. As you can see, the Vice-Presidents who speak always keep time and give the good example. However, time is not always respected by colleagues. The Foreign Minister, George Zavvos, has the floor now. Mr. Undersecretary, I think you'll also say about legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u132	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u133	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would like to say that with regard to questions relating to taxation, will the current colleague, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Besyropoulos. As far as I am concerned, I would like to say that we are shortly tabling a series of legislative improvements to the draft legislation which, on the one hand, will take into account the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament in which some have referred and, on the other hand, will also have a proposal on the limits, if you like, on the procedure for dealing with the interest rate limit. The Minister has already mentioned a convergence which, I think, we also have with all the parties in opposition on this, so that the Minister of Finance may be authorised to determine at any time when the maximum rate is considered appropriate. We all realise that this is a difficult issue, which cannot and does not exist anywhere in Europe in a given and final way. So, if you want, we take this test, experimental solution, which we also think will be enough. Mr President, I think that so far there has been a very significant convergence of views and I would say a substantial dialogue between all the parties. So a convergence has been achieved next week so that we can vote on an integrated, innovative, rhetorical and, I think, a draft law with a real social sign. It was particularly impressive to support all the social actors involved in the consultations. So, as a parliament, we show that we can catch the messages of this juncture and as a political body we are giving the message that we can cover the real social needs, such as funding, liquidity, the most vulnerable social groups who want and have all those qualifications so that they can get directly into the process of creating new jobs. At the same time, with regard to Mr Tsakalotou's comment, I would like to point out that the Minister of Finance fully responded by saying that we are really ready to discuss, if you like, the data and prospects of the Greek banking system from now on, without dogmatism, as evidenced by today's debate on these days, but on a truly serious database. Most importantly, however, it is a debate that I think is necessary, because there are now colossal global and European turbulence that change economic data and change the challenges of banking systems. That is why we think we should see and where the Greek banking system will be placed, especially at the moment when, as I said this morning, we have some major challenges, particularly those that come from Europe, the challenges of the banking union and the capital market union. In the meantime, however, it is worth pointing out very soon what has happened so far, that is almost a year after the government came to power. First, a government strategy was and remains to be reduced as soon as possible. Politics has been and remains the HARAKLIS project, a project that gives the possibility of securitisation of loans and, above all, a project whose costs are borne by the investor and not by the Greek taxpayer. It is a project that you remember having welcomed and welcomed even now all the European institutions. It is a project that, firstly, Eurobank and the other systemic banks, which will join this year, are continuing to join. It is a project that investors themselves vote for, since they put their money with confidence in the banking system and the Greek economy. It is a project, particularly in the last few days, which is welcomed by the international banking and international press, saying - and I am simply reading a phrase of Lex's FINANCIAL TIMES - that 'Greece's scheme look like a serious effort to cloan up domestic banks saddle with bad depths since the final crisis'. I am referring to this because even within the crisis there is the possibility of continuing this plan, as I say, by mainly undertaking the solution and the cost. However, we do not end with this systemic solution, which is sustainable, which is resilient. It is intended to reduce at least 35 billion red loans. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, just two minutes. Mr Loverdos also referred to other solutions, such as the bad bank that has been circulating for several years, and here in Greece, on which we think the Prime Minister gave an answer the day before yesterday, which expresses Greek politics, the Greek Government's policy, saying, of course, that the Greek Government has and implements the plan 'HRAKLIS'. It is good that there are other projects under work, I would say, such as bad bank but which is not at this moment. It's a reserve. With regard to Mr Loverdos, I would like to say to him - because there must be a clarification - that if someone talks about a 'bad bank', it must separate whether it is a European or a national one. Why am I saying that? Because if it is European, it means that it is a European initiative and to a large extent the cost will be borne by European funds. But if it is a national solution, it means that the cost will fall on the Greek taxpayer. And because some people say that it takes around 10 billion or more, Mr. Loverdos and anyone who suggests such a solution right now, where this money will come from. That's a financial cost. It is simply when we say 'HERAKLIS' that the cost is borne by the international investor. When we talk - to know what we are talking about - a national bank, it means that the cost is borne by the Greek taxpayer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Undersecretary, please complete. With your previous speech, you have covered the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would also like to say that this is the time when we should not go through confused messages in the international community, and also, if someone is a debtor today and he hears that the government is coming tomorrow to do bad bank, he will tell you ‘Why should I go right now to pay the dose? The government will do this." I would like to say that we need seriousness, continuity and actions and, above all, a thorough exchange of views and at the end of the convening. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Papanatziou Catherine is called in Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, will Mrs Maij-Weggen take the lead?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u139	Mrs Papanatsiou had changed with my colleague Mr Alexiadis. It's a regular show. Immediately after that, it's you, Mr. Kalogannis. It's just that there's been a change in the inside. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin my speech with a reference to yesterday's debate in the House on strengthening the liquidity and financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, without, of course, the presence of their representatives. What happened to the conversation? That the Government is faced with the risk of market suffocation and mass 'built', as most of the liquidity, directed to enterprises with various governmental programmes - repayable advance, TPIX II, Guarantee Fund - is absorbed by the most healthy and economically powerful companies. The President of the Hellenic Banks Association himself recognised the problem in the House. He stressed: "Although the amounts of liquidity being channelled to the economy are large, bank lending will not reach the credit weaker layers of the economy. It would be advisable to give state guarantees to these units, businesses and consumers, as has been done in European countries." Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are bringing to the vote a bill created by the SYRIZA Government, a bill that creates a parallel, alternative system and a powerful financial instrument for the economy, a financing tool for small business and farmers, especially after the end of ATE by your own government. Remember, I guess. I will not focus on the fact that while you were in Anti-Policy you accused of adopting micro-credits. It is not, after all, the only point at which you have made a hundred and eighty degrees of turn now that you are in the government. The evil is, ladies and gentlemen, that you have been bringing at this juncture and delayed one ready for some time in the SYRIZA bill, trying to fill the gap that you yourself have created in the economy with your choices. You have lifted your hands up with regard to strengthening the market. You threw a stink at business and workers, leaving them in their luck. You have been striving for a long time in all the tones that there are no "leaf trees" when you at the same time share coarse money, without transparency, to a few choices. In fact, even this bill, which you are bringing as an emergency to alleviate some of the tensions your policy creates in the economy, you have made sure you cut it and sew it in your measures. We are talking about a bill prepared by the SYRIZA Government, a bill that was put into consultation, incorporating changes and proposals from bodies. You have made changes that remain unknown who and what are serving. What serves, for example, to exclude the good of KALOS, OTA and chambers from the beneficiaries of micro-credits? To what is the delegation of exclusive supervision to the Bank of Greece, while, in fact, the European Central Bank has adopted a negative opinion? We have therefore tabled amendments to which our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative, Mr Chakalotos, referred. At the same time, you have again tabled amendments which are equivalent to a whole bill. I shall refer to one, because of a limited period of time. We see that you continue to invoke electronic invoicing and we agree. We had started both legislative procedures and the procedures for completing the framework. I do not note that in order to prove something, but in order to ask the relevant questions. Electronic invoicing and electronic books are a key development tool for businesses and can make a significant contribution to reducing tax evasion. I had raised the same issues in my written question on 6 March 2020. You have responded to me in general terms and from what I see, you continue without solutions. On the basis of the two decisions of the ADI commander and the recently adopted Ministerial Common Decision of the Ministry, the project appears to be progressing. There are, however, several questions about how it is progressing. The option seems to be being given to enterprises so far is to transmit via providers. This clearly makes smaller enterprises difficult. There will also be an objective difficulty in small communities, in remote villages that interconnection will not be possible due to a network or financial weakness. Small and medium-sized enterprises will be charged at various costs. Similarly, the tax officers who support them. The individual costs of implementation of the project should therefore be assessed. I suggest you seek sources of funding, one more reason now after the pandemic. We have a major objection to the reduction of the limitation time for the issue of an estimated amending tax. We are unable to understand how you will help electronic invoicing first. We also object to the removal of the possibility of a special workshop being set up by the Minister of Finance, which ensured greater cooperation between operators. In recent times the government has found itself with its back against the wall for its excessive simplicity in the media. At the same time, our country is in the last place - the sixty-fifth - on freedom of the press in research published by the 'Publishers without Frontiers' organisation. In addition, the household income and living conditions survey was published on Friday and the press release on ELSTAT's economic inequality for 2018. What do we see there? We see some myths falling apart. Myths about who destroyed the country's economy and production web. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u141	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. You can't fool the whole world all the time. The reality we're confronted with is that we're unfortunately going to get out real. I wish not. The market is drying. Small and medium-sized enterprises have not been strengthened. Remission and unemployment will be a strong crack test for the country's economy. The growth rates that we delivered to you and the social indicators mentioned above take it down. Let's hope, for everyone's sake, that you drop the communication show and change the rotas, as you did with this bill. Come and discuss our program. This will be a serious political attitude that recognises the wrong recipe even at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too. The floor was raised by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vessiropoulos. Mr. Vésyropoulou, will you say about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u144	I will support the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u145	So the time will come now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today focuses on dealing with the consequences of pandemic in the field of the economy. This is a constant and enduring effort as the government constantly updates its measures to support businesses and citizens. For the Greek economy to return as soon as possible to positive growth. The introduction of the micro-credit institution in our country is an important innovation. Most of all, however, it is a channel of access to liquidity for micro-enterprises and natural persons who are unable to borrow from financial institutions on the basis of the current banking criteria. Significant provisions have been introduced in the bill, which relate to the competence of the Ministry of Finance's tax policy. In particular, a solution is given to the problem with the retroactive pension amounts for which pensioners were asked to pay tax. This is a large proportion of retroactive pensions received in 2013 by the beneficiaries, but they did not include these amounts in their tax declaration, thus charging them a tax. Among these cases resulted in a number of tax determinations, which were issued despite the fact that these incomes had been included by the taxpayers in the declarations submitted. The Government, by means of its legislation, has tabled a redress against this unequal treatment which has caused great problems for certain pensioners. It is now possible to correct the liquidators either at the request of the taxpayer or at the request of the ADP itself. The new procedure will enable the tax administration to make a corrective action on the basis of the information to be provided to the competent DUs in order to ensure that the relevant amounts are taxed on the uses in which they, in fact, are raised rather than total in the year in which they were collected. It is also foreseen that fines will not be imposed, while the increases imposed on pensioners who have received their first pension will be considerably reduced. No long-term audit procedures. At the same time, a number of provisions are laid down which have as their direct and main benefit the citizen. I am referring to the possibility of paying traffic charges proportionally on a monthly basis and without penalty, which would be an incentive for citizens to lift the immobilisation of their vehicles. At the same time, the parcels are exempted from the supplementary ENPY and for 2020, with the aim of tax relief for citizens. At the same time, for June 2020, the 25% discount on the advances paid in respect of certain debts and instalments of instalment payments that are suspended and extended is extended, with a view to facilitating citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken in more detail about the articles of the bill, which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The rest of my speech I would like to refer to the content of the important amendments that we have tabled. With these either we are facing real problems by giving solutions, or we are introducing important innovations such as providing incentives to businesses for electronic invoicing. I will start by referring to the amendments from the amendment - an addition with a general number of 369 and a special number 51 to the bill, which consists of 11 articles. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] Article 1 deals with the problem of cheques on the market which cannot be repaid due to the consequences of the pandemic. Our aim is to enable them to be repaid by means of a new prolongation of time and at the same time not to be the checks, which were not paid at this juncture, cause and reason for exclusion of businesses and natural persons from lending. The measure is beneficial in particular to enterprises active in the tourism sector. In particular, the suspension of the deadlines for the expiry of cheques is extended for a further sixty days and the data will not be entered in the ‘TECI’ for a period of seventy-five days. The provision in addition to the firms affected relates to securities due from enterprises active in the tourism sector or seasonal enterprises and for which a failure to pay by the creditor bank from 1-6-2020 to 15-7-2020 has been established or is to be established. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 1 allow the inclusion into the applicable arrangement of the extension of the deadlines for the expiry, appearance and payment of securities and securities due from seasonal enterprises operating on a seasonal basis. The designation of an undertaking as a seasonal event is evidenced by evidence that the largest turnover of these undertakings is located in the months of July, August and September. The provisions referred to in Article 1 shall aim to support those which prove to be unable to pay their checks. Article 2 is linked to our strategic choice to promote electronic invoicing by gradually extending the interconnection of enterprises with the Independent Public Revenue Authority in order to drastically reduce tax evasion, but also at the same time to save resources for businesses. This option is linked to the provision of incentives to enterprises that will opt for electronic invoicing through a provider. The incentives consist of introducing shorter limitation periods for tax controls, increasing depreciation of the costs of electronic invoicing equipment and a faster refund of tax. In particular, the submission of the relevant declaration to the Independent Authority of Public Revenue for Enterprises, which will select electronic invoicing, results in specific benefits for these enterprises, such as: It shall be limited by two years or one year on a case-by-case basis the five-year limitation, in force until now within which the tax administration may adopt an act of administrative estimated or corrigendum of tax. The expenditure for the initial supply of technical equipment and software required for the application of electronic invoicing shall be amortised in full in the year of the increase in 100%. A 100% increase in expenditure on production, transmission and electronic invoicing of electronic invoicing is added for the first year of publication of the documents by electronic invoicing, which is deducted from gross revenue from business activity. It is reduced to forty-five days from ninety days, currently in force, the deadline for requests for reimbursement of the tax. In order to support a professional category, such as property manufacturers, which have been affected by the consequences of the pandemic and the new data of changing the mode of communication and transactions with the DUs, we are continuing to extend the deadlines for applying for the suspension of VAT by construction manufacturers. In particular, Article 3 extends until 31 December 2020 the possibility for the taxable construction manufacturer authorised by 30 June 2020 to submit an application for the suspension of the tax in order to ensure that the supplies of the properties are not chargeable to VAT. For authorisations issued from 1 July 2020, a six-month period shall apply from the date of issue of the authorisation. Article 4 of the amendment stipulates that the transfer of pending tax cases to the large auditing centres is regulated. The tax administration now has the legislative framework, the way and the means for carrying out specific tax controls and review. It is foreseen that the ongoing checks or re-checks of these specific workshops will continue and be completed as appropriate by the Great Rich Tax Control Centre or the Great Business Control Centre and by the same employees entrusted with the checks. Article 5 increases the number of members of the Legislative Committee to define the institutional framework for the management of frozen and created assets. To date this committee has been twelve-member. Its composition is now increased by five members and will be seventeen. This committee will be in charge of the General Directorate of Economic Crime Corps. The next article is linked to supporting the effort to make Greece an international transit centre through the provision adjusting the threshold for the suspension of VAT when importing goods, which will be uniform regardless of the year of accession of stakeholders. In particular, it is reduced to EUR 40 000 000 from EUR 250,000 000 000 to EUR 25 000 000 the minimum statistical value obtained on an annual basis of imports of non-tariff goods to which the payment of VAT is suspended at the time of importation established by the competent customs authority. Article 7 of the Amendment recommends an adaptation of the provisions of the National Customs Code to the provisions of Article 21a of the European Union Regulation with a number of 904/2010 on combating VAT fraud. According to this, the relevant Ministers of Finance and Infrastructure and Transport are authorised to adopt a joint decision setting out the procedure for the exchange of information for VAT purposes in the registration of vehicles. The Decision will lay down the competent national authorities for the processing of incoming and outgoing requests for vehicle registration data, as well as other issues relating to the operating conditions of the automated procedure for the exchange of vehicle registration information using the version of the European vehicle information system software and driving licences. This is the EUCARIS system, an electronic information exchange platform, launched in 1994 as cooperation between five European countries, in order to combat fraud caused by the double VAT system applicable to cars. This means that there will now be full cooperation between the Member States that have access to all relevant information. Article 8 provides that the fee may be paid for the granting of the licence to gamble online in part to four annual equal payments instead of the two that have been in force to date. Article 9 extends until 31 December 2020 the time limit for the adoption of the Presidential Decree setting the amount, terms and conditions for payment of internal travel expenses and for the compensation of training of Armed Forces and Security Bodies. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. The following article extends until 31 October 2020 the time limit by which the Reform Committee of the Dangerous and Unhealthy Work Benefit Scheme should complete the work assigned to it and submit a final opinion to the Ministers responsible. Finally, Article 11 extends by a further 12 months, in relation to the initial deadline given, the granting to the Hellenic Defence Systems of Tax and Insurance in order to facilitate the operation of the company. Finally, there is another amendment that withdrew until 31 December 2020 the obligation of notaries for electronic submission of capital declarations relating to tax declarations on the transfer of real estate, inheritance, parental benefits and E9. The extension is necessary to allow the notaries to be informed and trained in the use of new applications. Ladies and gentlemen, since March the pandemic of the government set out to keep the economy alive. To support substantial business and workers measures in order to make a smooth transition to the relaunching phase of the economy. We're just at this stage. However, we will continue - and we will continue - to take measures to support, facilitate and alleviate those who need support, facilitation and relief. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has built a large chapter of confidence in its relations with the citizens. We are moving forward to overcome the difficulties, to return soon to high growth. By exploiting the resources of the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF, to create a new productive and developmental model. And having always at the core of our policy to reduce taxes. This government began its term by reducing ENPY. Other tax reductions were followed. But we don't stop here. Where a financial area arises, it will be used in the direction of tax reductions. This is the choice of the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Minister. The State Secretary, Mr Zavvos, has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, this is the third time Mr Zavvos has spoken today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u149	Shouldn't he clarify? Don't you want to be informed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u150	Before he asked the floor for legal improvements and spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u151	I am now presided over. I don't know the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, there are twenty Members waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u153	It would have been over now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u154	Are you serious? That's a good process. Whenever the Minister wants to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u155	I'm serious. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u156	Mr Kathryn, it is disproportionate - if you would like - that your discontent, because I just wanted to say for a moment that the government is making a statement on matters which you and other Members of all the parties in plenary have asked for in the draft law on the financing framework and other financial regulation, in which we have the issues of the interest rate that we have discussed in detail, the issues of the report in Parliament and the issues of the establishment based in Greece of companies which will make microcredits for the transitional period, which all of you have already raised, all the aspects of this Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u157	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Stavros Kalogannis, has the floor. I would also like to inform you that the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. The rapporteurs should be here to vote at the beginning of the bill. In a subsequent change of speaker we may say to whom we will go today, to know exactly who will end. Members who are staying and are not speaking today will be able to speak before Tuesday's sitting. Mr. Kalogannis, you have the floor. Warm request, be precise in keeping time. As far as I've been informed by Mr. Athanasios, time is six minutes. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has so far shown that it is facing the consequences of the coronary pandemic with great responsibility and efficiency. At the same time, it demonstrates that it implements a realistic plan for the recovery of the economy based on the strengthening of the public health system, support for employment, boosting the liquidity of enterprises. In this direction, a number of tools such as the repayable advance, the suspension of tax and insurance obligations for the pandemic period, the interest subsidy for the business loans of the affected enterprises, the new institutional framework for the financing we are debating today are being activated. Unfortunately, the problems of lending businesses from the banks remain very serious. Even for those enterprises that meet the conditions for lending, bureaucracy is incredible, while from the time of approval of a loan up to its disbursement a very long period of up to six months has elapsed. The growing demand for new alternative forms of financing, as reflected at European level, therefore created the need for an institutional framework to facilitate micro-enterprises in financing. The draft law comes to cover the financial gap that exists in small businesses and particularly affects those at the start of their business. It is based on the European Code of Good Practice for the provision of micro-credits and provides the possibility to raise capital of up to EUR 25 000 without any practical guarantees with the possibility of repayment within a decade. It has been successfully implemented in many European countries and is aimed at micro-enterprises, natural persons to set up small enterprises, people belonging to vulnerable social groups excluded from banking funding. In the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, where the bill was discussed in detail, there were many points of convergence and several proposals were tabled. To its credit, the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance has shown itself ready to improve the bill and we are now moving on to its legislation, since many and substantial proposals have been incorporated. For example, the granting of an authorisation for a microfinance institution does not require a share capital of EUR 400,000, as originally foreseen, but EUR 250,000. Moreover, these institutions will not only function as public limited companies, but also as capital and urban companies. It is interesting, of course, to present the issue of the interest rate on microfinance. It is a parameter we all agree that it is difficult to regulate in legislation. However, it will be the most essential factor in the success of the project, so the interest rate must be low. The draft law introduces a new liquidity tool. Flexibility in implementing this tool is the bet that needs to be won in order to strengthen entrepreneurship and control the grievance economy. In conclusion, the Government proves in practice that it supports business activity in order to stimulate their productivity and competitiveness and to contribute to the recovery of the national economy. I would particularly like to thank the Ministers present for their prompt response to two points of reasonableness that we have raised in committee, which have been created because of the pandemic. The first point I would like to thank you for, Minister, is the resolution of the question concerning credit cooperatives, including the Cooperative Bank of Epirus. The second issue concerns the building sector. By Ministerial Amendment already tabled until 31 December 2020, the possibility for the building manufacturer to opt for the suspension of the tax in order to ensure that the supplies of the property are not chargeable to VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Small Credit Act will be a good idea and will actually help small businessmen who so much need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much Mr Kalogonnis for having made an economy of time. We're moving on with Mr. Pana.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u161	Let me give you the floor, Mr. Armacler.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u162	I was out the clock when you announced it would be until 17.30 hours and then the meeting would be interrupted next Tuesday. I find it unacceptable that we should be here all day, at least some colleagues, and take us on Tuesday, which we may not be able to do. I had asked to speak today because I could and now you tell us that you will stop and carry everyone else on Tuesday. And a committee scheduled at 17:30 or 18:00, there can be an extension of half an hour to finish. There are not many colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u163	I will make an effort, but in this attempt to help my colleagues. Mr. Armachene is right. All this has been imposed because of the country's exceptional situation and because of the fact that plenary is also being used for the committee meeting. I would like to ask Mr. Pana to be in six minutes' time. Try the essential thing to say it from the fourth minute and then close it, like Mr Kalogannis. Here, Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u164	I should like to start by saying that, because we are talking about entrepreneurship, I should like to make a small contribution on a subject that came up yesterday and concerns the Ministry of Finance, Tourism and Health, on the non-creating of accommodation rooms - accommodation areas for confirmed cases of COVID -19, a solution that is, in fact, a blow to tourist operators, as it complements the creation of an inexistent quarantine hotel grid, so that tourism entrepreneurs now have to make available rooms for the accommodation of cases. This provision for you to know that it is badly affecting these operators, who will put their businesses at risk and put all the workers at risk, and it is the wrong direction in our efforts to restore the tourist economy. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion comes to complete a series of government interventions aimed at strengthening the company's liquidity. This institutional framework enables the granting without practical security and as a limit of EUR 25 000 and a repayment period of 12 months to 10 years in micro-enterprises, which have the form of credits either to meet investment needs, as working capital and to vulnerable social groups, in the form of credits aimed at strengthening public policies or the social and economic integration of vulnerable social groups. It thus enables this difficult economic and business situation, especially for very small, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to be provided with useful financial instruments. In principle, therefore, we are seeing this initiative as a Movement of Change. We are obviously in favour of any tool that increases liquidity towards small businesses and vulnerable groups in a sustainable and transparent way, but only if this does not work as an alibi for the indirect service of banks' interests. We seek clean financing solutions and brave liquidity measures for businesses and workers, with a view to the survival of businesses and the protection of jobs. We will therefore oppose any attempt by the systemic banking system to further reduce already minimal liquidity towards small enterprises. That is why, moreover, the government itself, which is called upon to ensure by all possible means, not only through micro-finance, the greatest possible liquidity, but also for the category of micro-enterprises. It is important that the government, even at the very last hour that goes to such remedial moves, helps in very important points and the rural world to cope with the need for liquidity within this difficult period even primary production. From there on, the debate that took place at the request of the Change Movement at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Production and Trade, so that the relevant ministers would provide the necessary clarification for the emergency financial instruments which the government uses and provides, and the possibility of operations in them, was necessary. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there is the image in the Greek society that the government's exceptional financial benefits to businesses and workers due to the coronary crisis have no real impact on the economy. The Government, through whatever positive measures it takes for the economy, must, at the same time, clarify its planning for the effective absorption of financing by businesses, households and employees, because the funding is worthy of fulfilling certain measurable objectives, not just 'we should have said'. If shops, small and medium-sized enterprises, then too many jobs will be lost and unemployment will be in front of us. That is why we have also talked in particular about the guarantees required for these microfinances introduced by this draft law. So this issue must be very clear to the businessman who listens to us today and goes to borrow tomorrow under this framework. From there on, you have spoken to the committee, Minister, on the repayable advance as another financial instrument. We insist and say so once again that the repayable advance as an amount must be increased. So we believe that at the moment it is the only tangible liquidity solution on which businesses can rely. Finally, in conclusion, we are talking here today about a bill which, in the first place, finds us in agreement. However, we have strong reservations about whether, through all this policy pursued by the government, there is a structured plan for the real stimulus of the economy and the strengthening of the world of work. He stays to see it and we'll judge it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u165	We are also grateful for the consistency in time. I should now like to call Mr Sedetakis, a colleague of the New Democracy MEP, in Stepma. Until the Step's ready, I'll say we'll get there, because you can't make it exactly the time, until Mr. Armaclene. Those who are from down there will go on Tuesday. And I want to submit the request to cooperate, to make it easier for us all. Those who are going to speak have their texts in front, let them adapt to six minutes. Here, Mr. Sedetakis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first time the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis has set an important and ambitious objective to restore confidence in the relationship between a state and a citizen. Why is this an important objective? Because when the state first trusts the citizen, then the citizen in turn trusts the state. And when this relationship is forged on solid - i.e. honest and honest - base, then everything is possible. Then we can as a country aim high where we deserve to be. And that is why the aim of the mutual trust of a Member State - a citizen, apart from being important, is also ambitious. All right, but in theory, one would say. How, however, is this bond of confidence created and how is the state's confidence in the citizen practically manifested? I will not go into all the things that the current government has done in this direction. I will focus on the bill we are debating today, which is another proof that the state is here, next to the citizen, constantly seeking solutions to complex issues that arise. The pandemic forced us to run faster, to work harder, to find tools to support the work, to keep the society upright, to keep the entrepreneurship upright. Today's legislation is the seventh tool for strengthening liquidity to those affected and in real need of support. It will surprise some people that a neoliberal government - according to the usual classes of part of the Anti-Population - adopts a tool for providing liquidity to micro-enterprises, professionals and vulnerable groups. However, because we here prove our social sensitivity, which you want to monopolize in actions rather than in words, you should probably change rhetoric. But that's your problem. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because we are a liberal government, we believe in human value. We believe in ownership and believe that the economic development of a country depends on and is achieved on the basis of society. That is why we believe that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is the backbone of our economy. That is why we believe that a rule of law is the only guarantor of equal opportunities and social mobility. In this context, we believe that the relaunch of the economy will be done if we put the seed of creation to the small, to those who want to promote and create new wealth. And most of the time what a kid needs is relatively small, a spark, say. This spark of creation comes to offer this particular piece of legislation. A spark of up to 25,000 euros that will be provided without collateral and returned in one to ten years. This is the central meaning of the bill, which also enables these microfinances to make the institutions that will be created and licensed with the approval of the Bank of Greece. I listen very carefully to the reservations of both the Opposition and some colleagues about the involvement of the Bank of Greece and the costs that this may create, but I honestly could not imagine a more reliable institution to oversee and control this process, a process that a few eagle could exploit to the detriment of many. We do not follow such practices. We respect the institutions and honour them. We want through this process that is successfully implemented in advanced European states to enable large entrepreneurs to finance young entrepreneurs and not only finance them, but also advise them and train them, which are even more important. This whole idea rests on a word, 'confidence'. And here there is a fundamental difference in the provision of credits from the banking institutions that have another economic perception and approach. The idea is not new, of course. It is successfully applied in many parts of the world. Her inspiration was the nobelish economist Mohammed Yunus. What was the component of his success? And when we talk about success, we do not mean the Nobel Prize, we mean the dynamics of the idea of micro-credit, which received characteristics of the world movement, affected political leaderships, changed consolidated perceptions. And I think that what we are discussing today is clearly influenced by the Yunus movement. First of all, we are talking about the idea of financing growth from the bottom of the line. It is our understanding that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is the backbone of the economy. Yunus, then, counted that with $25,000 credit he could take out many of his fellow humans from intolerance. His aid was finally made at $42. Thus the'microbanking' was born in the 1970s, as it was called and so it succeeded in getting its bank to lend $2.5 billion a year to nine million borrowers. And he loaned how? Without mortgages, without lawyers asking for the money back, like they'll lend the institutions that will be created by this bill. Really impressive! The most impressive is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u167	Don't go to the other spectacular! Close, so we're all consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u168	The most impressive - I am closing, Mr President - is that the uncertainties are almost nonexistent. 98% of borrowers return the money. Yunus’ contribution, therefore, is his view that trust gives rise to confidence. If you trust them, they'll trust you. And to trust you - I would add - they should be persuaded, convinced that you have a plan, you have a vision, to lead them to a better tomorrow. I think the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the vision, it also has the plan, just as long as this relationship of confidence we started building from the first days of governance to preserve it. It's the most valuable thing we have to do to make it through the difficult days that will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u169	I should now like to call Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, a SYRIZA MP, who has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the House that, first of all, we are a legislative body, and we must be very careful about the designations and arguments that we share. I am referring to a position that has been heard earlier in relation to the history of the political game in our country, the Papa - Mononis. The majority will easily adopt the recordings, for which a preliminary examination has already been ordered, and which Mr Mionis had them for so long, and which he has shown in a critical time, to cover the responsibility for the 2.6 of Mr Papastavros, of course, which highlight Mr Samaras, of course, the government also has a responsibility for this part of the process, because he has been poorly and without any real judgment any comments and statements made by Mr Mionis. Of course, the main representative of the New Democracy objected to us being put to the opposition, because we tried to build what he blames us and, anyway, we need to learn to behave as an Opposition. I would therefore like to say to everyone that yes, the crisis of the Greek people is respected, we are in the opposition and we are opposition to a substantial, institutional, responsible and a comparison between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, as far as the opposition is concerned, must make you speechless and not move our fingers. We supported the country in the Evros crisis, we stayed at home at the time of the pandemic, while on the occasion of the Prespecies Agreement you were identified with the most conservative, most reactionary and far-right part of Greek society. And in any case, you have a majority. If you dare proceed to a committee of inquiry, and there we have institutions to oppose. As far as today's debate is concerned, the micro-credit procedure is a process that belongs to us. Initially, it started by Mohammed Yunus, which was submitted multiplely, who was marked honored by the Nobel Peace Prize and not an economy. You see, at the Nobel Economics Prizes, the stars of neoliberal dogma and nothing else that will tear the monocracy of liberalism. Since 2009 in the coalition, this proposal has been formulated. The conservative shock was great. A parallel banking system, left-wing ideas, distortion of competition. Today, after the ten-year crisis and a catalyst of the pandemic that has engulfed the country, you discover the wheel, you create a parallel financing structure, but it must have specific features, so that it does not turn into a loop of entrepreneurship. The creation of the development bank, which will play a regulatory role in the provision of loans and in the regulation of interest rates, is emerging. Furthermore, the proposal tabled by the Minister, regulated by a ministerial decision, is in the right direction and I think it should be supported. We have asked for an amendment to involve local government and chambers and we believe it is inherent to the nature of the legislation that we are discussing. We have called for all the members of companies involved in microfinance to be controlled, because precisely these people who are going to have to know where and how they have obtained it. There is an issue that Mr Vesyropoulos handled and probably did not give any convincing answers. In particular, Minister, what about the 2013 pensioners? Public claims have been dropped. Are you sending them to apply to revive the public demand? These are vague requirements, we must end it and settle it permanently and irrevocably. The public administration cannot be charged with a law of EUR 70,000, as Mr Alexiadis has said, for the demands of the public that have been deleted. Obviously, we do not want the demands of the public to be omitted. Obviously, there are potential responsibilities, but now we cannot return to the old regime. I close, Mr President, by saying this: it is a bill on which we have opened the way to the debate at the National Representation. We're positive. We expect clarification in order to achieve the maximum possible majority and to vote for a bill that will give a breath to entrepreneurship that is so resilient. Finally, in addition to the new financial instruments, you must also ensure that the existing debts are repaid. New Democracy colleague Keletsis put it for Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, 12% close it, so that we can move on to the new financial instruments, with the companies that are free from the loop of earlier requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u171	Thank you for keeping time too. Mr Kotsos Georgios has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all have to recognise that the pandemic, which has tested the strengths not only of Greece but also of the whole world, has brought about three very important advantages for our country. The first restored her reputation internationally. Where, because of the memorials, we were viewed as a country that owes us, a country that is under collapse, it is now beginning to admire us and those who did not think we could do it. The second major advantage is that citizens' faith and confidence towards the state's central government has been restored to public administration. That is why we have seen such great discipline in the measures announced by either the health committees or the government itself. And, of course, the citizens have stood up to the circumstances, taking on their individual responsibility. The third and very important advantage for our country is that, after the pandemic which had international dimensions, almost all the countries of the world entered the centre of the crisis. We are not the only ones we owe, the ones we have poor economic data, we are not the only ones who need help, and we need this last advantage, the fact that the whole world, but above all the European Union, is aware of the need to support economies at all times, to use it on the best terms and the best possible way. The next big bet for our Government, for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but also for Greece, is to deal with the financial problems that have arisen from this crisis with the best possible conditions. Here too, we must recognise that if there were no honest and effective government work, the previous nine months before the pandemic appeared, with legislative measures such as facilitating investment, tax relief, cutting red tape, today our country would be in a much more difficult economic situation. To slow down and curb the recession in the economy, targeted political interventions and corrective areas are needed, particularly in our country's business landscape. We need a new micro-credit framework to support small businesses, start up companies, and people who are interested in training to get into the workplace so that they can restart and move in this difficult situation, with the ultimate aim of profit. Yes, the gain that for some periods was a bad idea. This draft law, based on the European Code of Good Practice, aims at developing new business activities, limiting the exclusion of the unemployed and vulnerable social groups from the workplace. Society must be reconstructed. Private and social sectors should come to a new balance line to face any new challenge the new digital age brings and sustainable green growth. The funding per beneficiary of up to EUR 25,000 without collateralists gives precisely this possibility to the people who so far wanted to create their own start and who were excluded from lending the banking system. Recent investigation by GATT shows that seven out of ten companies will face a liquidity problem directly and about 100 thousand businesses will not reopen the next period. We must reverse these elements. The socially sensitive liberal policy that we are presenting is moving precisely in this context of supporting entrepreneurship, in order to create new jobs and to have active citizens to save the productive fabric of the country. We want the EUR 32 billion of the Recovery Fund to be channelled to our country so that our economy can be rebuilt. With the microfinance programme, we are addressing future young entrepreneurs who are envisioning original, new ideas and wanting to do so in order to create their own successful business and, of course, young entrepreneurs who need to acquire the knowledge and facilities they need to support their business. Only then will our country's return to growth, strengthen the extroversion, become competitive with the Greek economy. This plan is true to have a history. Started by SYRIZA. But that is our qualitative difference, that we have the boldness and the possibility of doing so. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this bill has the understanding of all the bodies. So we all recognise how important and important and innovative it is and how much we need to implement it immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope this bill also has national consensus in order to be as successful as possible. We all want the recovery of our economy. We want to give a breath, a way out for our young people to create a small business or find a job. We must give them the impetus to the future they need. Once again the New Democracy Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, comes to stimulate the public's confidence in the state and to demonstrate that the economy is here to serve the citizen and not the citizen's economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. Mr Athanasios Kavvada has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the references made by colleagues from the Qualified Opposition on the banking system show, in some cases, vague and intentional memory loss. We all remember who led us to the capital controls, who led to the collapse of the banking system in the first half of 2015. We all remember the EUR 40 billion of deposits that left banks in the first half of 2015, but also who were ruling at that time. A year ago, an effort has been launched to stabilise and develop the banking system so that it can carry out its main task of financing the economy and business. The main prerequisite for stabilisation and development is confidence. And this government has restored and continuously strengthens the climate of confidence in the economy and the banking system. At the same time as granting state guarantees, but also with two important financial instruments such as TPIX II and the Guarantee Fund, the Government is allowing banks to exercise their real role, which is financing business and the economy. I would, however, like to convey the concern of entrepreneurs and professionals about the limited flow of loans, and at a time when the great demand is for liquidity, especially when public guarantees have been given at an even 80% rate for loans from the Guarantee Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, when the state takes its own risk, when businessmen take their own risks to keep their businesses alive, banks cannot ask for additional guarantees. It is time for everyone to realise that the banking system is based on the viability and prospects of Greek businesses. The contract signed by the banks with the Greek State enables the Ministry of Development to assess progress in the approval and disbursements of loans and, if there is a need to reallocate the funds, the Guarantee Fund to those banks which are moving rapidly towards the approval and disbursement of loans. No one says that loans should be given without control and without criteria. It is important, however, to see again the regulatory framework governing these criteria, to risk banks themselves, as is the case with all those who invest or operate business. The concept of "risk" does not mean gambling, since the solvency of an undertaking can be certified. A healthy undertaking that is consistent with its obligations has in fact the criterion of solvency. A business with a remarkable turnover and activity deserves the confidence of the banks. The banking system needs to understand that it will also come out with the same enhanced and benefiting from the country's return to high growth rates. Ladies and gentlemen. We all know that there are high and pressing credit requirements. Small businesses looking for liquidity, but are not able to provide guarantees or have no access to the banking system, or even businesses and professionals who are now making their first steps. The micro-credit institution, introduced by the bill we are debating today, is implemented in many European countries and enables small-scale loans to be provided to businesses and professionals through micro-credit agencies. For our country, this financial instrument will be a way out for businesses and professionals, which do not have easy access to bank borrowing, since it now enables loans of up to EUR 25 000 without collateral and mortgages. They will be able to borrow very small and small businesses, free professionals, but also natural persons to set up a small business. In an effort to restore the economy, which has already begun, we need all the available financial instruments that can provide liquidity. It is particularly important that the provisions of the bill include other provisions with a positive social impact, such as the exclusion of agricultural parcels from the supplementary tax of HISA, as well as the introduction of a monthly payment of traffic charges and not annually. This actually stimulates the owners of cars who want to move forward with the immobilisation of their vehicles and with the data to date have been obliged to pay traffic charges corresponding throughout the year. An important innovation is the provision contained in the Ministry of Finance's amendment on electronic invoicing. It is a leading step towards modernising, transparency and combating tax evasion. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in very difficult circumstances is moving on to relaunch the economy and with substantial measures it supports businesses and workers. To date all available resources come from the state budget. The time has come for European resources to fall into the market and the economy. The EUR 32 billion of the Recovery Fund is a large capital to be channelled into the real economy, to support growth. The seriousness emitted by the government and the Prime Minister ensures that these resources are used best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too, for getting the time right in six minutes. I call to Stepma the Deputy of SYRIZA Mr. George Papaliou for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, small and medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises and professionals who are the backbone of the Greek economy, but also young people who want to open their wings, act through new, innovative businesses, are suffocating from the lack of liquidity. This makes it absolutely essential, but also urgent, to be financed so that they can survive and reinstate their business and professional activity, but also start it after the economic crisis caused by both the pandemic and the closure of the business and the policies of the current government, in particular its refusal to take forward measures during the pandemic, in order to prevent the collapse of the economy. Unfortunately, the banks for others are cursing. Despite their repeated recapitalisations with Greek taxpayers' money, they do not respond to their mission, support for the economy and Greek entrepreneurship. Their main concern is to reduce their precariousness, increase their profits, and to lend or regulate loans only to those who are judged viable and on sustainability criteria corresponding to periods of smoothness and not to times of crisis, in which there is a need to support the needs of the whole economy and society. The Government of the New Republic shall be confined to recommendations and hollow words. It speaks of a lack of willingness and speed of banks and an investigation into the complaints of borrowers who run counter to the refusal of banks to finance or regulate their loans. This unfavourable environment, which is forbiddingly operating for small and medium-sized business, comes to partially mitigate the current bill. Microfinance is an important tool within the financing system of the economy and business. They cover gaps, failures, shortcomings and failures of the banking system to finance small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Micro-credits, according to this bill, consist of financing in the form of loans up to EUR 25 000 for investment purposes, or capital or leasing products, as well as up to EUR 25 000 for the acquisition of equipment, professionals and small businesses that do not have - and yet find it difficult to have - access to the banking system. The loan is granted under different criteria from those of the banks. There are no safeguards allowed and there is a need for the support of the advisory services borrowers. The bill under discussion was fully prepared by the SYRIZA government without being voted on because of the elections that took place. It was part of a parallel, alternative, complementary economic financing grid, including the establishment of a National Development Bank, but also other targeted tools. You enter it late, one year after the elections, and enter it with some changes that make it partly difficult, bureaucratic and opaque. I will make some comments on these changes. The supervisory authority on financial matters shall be entrusted entirely to the Bank of Greece in spite of the serious objections raised. The supervision of the Bank of Greece must be delimited both in terms of content and time, so that there is no risk of excessive bureaucracy and delays. It is important, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you have recovered from the point of view of the exclusion of the social economy operators, which you will eventually incorporate into the beneficiaries. These are the bodies that under certain circumstances can contribute to job creation, support for vulnerable social groups and, in general, the maintenance of social cohesion. The legal form of these institutions is limited to capital companies or special urban companies. But with this change local authorities, and others like chambers, cannot establish and participate in such companies unless they are explicitly provided for by legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u177	Finish it, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u178	I'll be done. Given the development role of local authorities, as well as the know-how and role of chambers, these bodies should be given the opportunity to participate in microfinance institutions to contribute to the operation of the new institution, to strengthen the establishment of microfinance institutions geared to regional planning and the needs and specificities of local societies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u179	All right, you're done. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u180	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u181	I have to be fair too, just like I did to all the other people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I fear that the situation of the Greek economy is under recession and that unemployment, which will be the characteristics of the next period, will be eroded. I hope that even with a long delay, gentlemen of the government, you will change the line. The present bill is a start. It sends out a link message to society. It's not enough, but it's something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u183	I'll call Mr. Style for six minutes and less. There is a critical meeting at 18.30 ́ and must be held except for ventilation and technical tests. Mr. Gikas will speak. I say this because I see other colleagues going around. Everyone else will go on Tuesday. You and Mr. Gikas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law entitled 'Funding framework, financial regulation and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, social policy is the policy that strengthens the income of the weak. It is the policy that opens a window of opportunity to vulnerable groups. It is the policy that keeps jobs, which encourages many to continue their economic activity, which keeps the country's productive fabric alive and, in times of severe economic crisis. That is the real social policy. Because benefits are well paid, but in an economy without businesses and without micro-enterprises, benefits are a policy with an end date. Because you can't share money long if you don't produce wealth. That's our philosophy. In this we disagree with policies that are pro-familiar in words, but in practice they recycle poverty. The bill that we are voting on today is a bill that increases economic activity, liberates economic forces, gives more choices, is a pro-collegiate bill, as it provides through the institution of microfinance institutions for the provision of liquidity up to EUR 25 000. Who? In micro-enterprises, individuals practising individual business, individuals who want to train in order to get into the workplace, as well as people who belong to vulnerable social groups who, in other words, face liquidity problems, as they are excluded from the banking system due to a lack of necessary collateral. Many of these operations are at the forefront of stopping their activity. The bill, therefore, provides for the financing of all the above through flexible procedures, in terms of absolute transparency, under the supervision of the Bank of Greece. I would remind you that this microfinance institution has already been operating in many European countries for years. The draft law therefore ensures that the microcredit system does not create systemic risks, which are necessary for the proper functioning of the market, that there is no place for illegal activities, and that all conditions are fully transparent. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand the problem of the lack of liquidity at the moment, it is only enough to add the main conclusions of a recent investigation carried out in April 2020 by the Institute for Small Enterprises of GATT on the impact of COVID -19 on small and micro-enterprises. What does this investigation say? Seven out of ten companies consider that the most important problem they face after the lifting of the restrictive measures will be the lack of liquidity. One out of seven companies, about 100 thousand Greek companies, might be thinking about closing down after the restrictive measures have been lifted. To understand the extent of our intervention, when we talk about small businesses, we are actually talking about the whole of Greek economic activity, because micro-enterprises, that is, companies that have zero to forty-nine staff, represent about 90% of Greek enterprises and offer 80% of private jobs. For these reasons, this bill is a very important, very substantial draft law. It is a bill that gives businesses and workers a kiss and no coincidence that its predictions were dealt with positively at hearing the bodies almost all of them and most of the parties currently in the Greek Parliament. The bill on its individual issues has been analysed very well by colleagues, by our rapporteur, by the ministers, by corrections, interventions have been made, recommendations have also been made by opposition. I would just like to mention four points, and I would like to mention that for 2020 we are also extending the exemption of the additional ENPI for agricultural parcels. 25% discount - the second - is paid in late instalments of certified debts, with a payment date within June. There is a 2% discount for anyone who pays the full income tax and a solution is given to a problem that employs seventy thousand pensioners, with retrospectives paid in 2013 which involve money that was all given together that year. A solution is given, that is, for this category of pensioners, which, properly regulated and using information systems from the ADI, releases forces of our society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a few seconds. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law with the package of measures announced by our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis and the Ministry of Finance is moving towards reintroducing the Greek economy on the rails. For this reason, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u185	Good. We continue again with Arta, calling at Step the MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Christo Goka, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's debate at the joint meeting of the two Committees on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, but without market operators, there was once again the great problem of liquidity, but also the lack of a comprehensive plan by the Government for the recovery of the economy and support for labour. The measures have been fragmented since the beginning of the problem, and supplements are still needed. For our part, we have consistently tabled proposals to keep society and the economy alive for the sustainability of businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, support for labour and the unemployed, tourism and the primary sector. Problems are growing daily. A lot of businesses are going to survive. Despite the constantly announced and implemented measures, liquidity remains the most important problem facing the eight out of ten small businesses, with a direct risk of closing one out of seven companies. The aim must be to integrate all the companies in need of financing tools with the minimum basic criteria, with the main criterion of sustainability, so that they do not close and maintain the employment of workers. According to the operators themselves, liquidity in the market was not channelled to the real economy. The financing measures so far have not yielded what is expected. The percentage of applications approved for TIPS II is about 10%. Requests for the Guarantee Fund shall be five times the amount of resources allocated. There are issues both with the criteria and with the conditions. And you, Mr. Ministers, recognize them, but something has to be done. He's in danger of losing credibility. There is frustration and most people do not hope that they will finally be supported and, above all, we are not left optimistic about yesterday's intervention by the representative of the banks, as our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, has explained in detail on this subject, even in the case of financing with public guarantees. Also, with the retention, the commitments, that is, a significant part of the funding as a guarantee, what liquidity will finally reach the market? We need to make better use of the measure of repayable advance. We have repeatedly proposed to increase to about 3 billion over a year and a half, regardless of whether this does not seem as much as it should appear in publicity. We have proposed a zero tax payment for the firms affected and a 50% reduction in the tax advance for all, on the basis of the amendment we have tabled, as well as 40% of the wage for the workers for six months, with the condition that redundancies and adverse changes in their contracts are not made, as well as the provision of unemployment benefit for all the unemployed by the end of the year. The microfinance, the framework of which is currently under discussion, can actually help. The market is waiting for it. We hope that expectations will not be disproved. We're voting on it. We believe, however, that the framework of support should be extended, that limits should be set on the loan rate, that the amount and way of guaranteeing it, but also that the costs for advisory services, as well as the retention as a guarantee of loans, should be specified, so that at the end of the day microcredits should reach the level to which they should reach, that is to say, the citizens and the real economy. And there is, of course, the question of whom and how much they can finally lend. Ladies and gentlemen, we must look into reality. Things are hard. Already, companies choose not to commit themselves to projects with a clause on the maintenance of jobs and there are redundancies. They will also appear in next-stage statistics. Also, a few days ago, in my city in Arta, I had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the Arta Commercial Association. There is a strong concern and anguish, a doubt about the practical application of the measures already announced. They feel that this is not enough. There is a failure to meet their obligations. I am sure they have taken their suggestions. They are too many and substantial. I've informed you in my report. I will only mention the following: the reduction of tax rates and VAT. Suspension of payment of HICPIA. The abolition of the tax advance for 2020 and a 50% reduction for 2021. The creation - finally - of the Special Inconsistent Account for all key business obligations. The immediate repayment of all public sector debts to businesses, without withholding any information debts. The application of the one hundred and twenty instalments adjustment for all their debts. In particular, for my region, Epirus, there are more specific requests such as: the introduction of a transport equivalent for operations in Epirus due to the high costs per kilometre for tolls, about 11 minutes. Subsidy of 50% in electricity as a compensation measure for the Purnier Dams and 12% in wage costs as a frontier region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing up with two reports in a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u187	No, Mr. Goka, shut up now. I cannot be treated differently. Shut up and end up completely.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u188	In Article 30, the tax on retroactive workers who received seventy thousand pensioners since 2013 has been limited to the net extra tax which is due, without incremental increases and without any fines. And for Article 35: it is now enough with the extensions for the non-payment of a supplementary tax on agricultural parcels!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u190	This tax must immediately be abolished and a definitive solution must be found, along with the non-project plots, which as a Change Movement movement. Also. We've asked. Thank you very much and apologise for the time I took.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u191	May I invite the New Democracy MP, Mr. Lazaro Tsavdaridis. Here, Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis, the New Democracy Government is unfolding a series of initiatives that are not merely aimed at supporting the economy, but above all at supporting the society that works and gives the numbers added value, meaning and substance. Because the economy is not and could not be just numbers, it is the people who are planning and programming, who are implementing and forming, investing time, money and dreams, that are adjusting goals and actions. The New Democracy, and with this microfinance legislation, does not only plan ways of strengthening entrepreneurship in the middle of a pandemic. It also sets out the framework for the immunisation of social cohesion and justice, the stimulus of employment, the safeguarding of credibility and transparency, the consolidation of the faith of the middle Greek in a better tomorrow that leaves no one behind, no one marginalized, no excluded, no one wronged. There is no greater right for a government than to listen to the Civic Opposition to consent to the draft law, effectively exhausting its criticism of the argument that it has designed the tools to strengthen the liquidity of enterprises, to which this legislation refers. Of course, they had designed these in SYRIZA too, but obviously they did not even have time to implement them. Our framework for action to support healthy business includes the repayable advance of €2,000,000, the suspension of tax and insurance contributions, household and business liabilities for the whole 2020 period, the interest subsidy of all business loans of firms belonging to affected sectors, the loan of working capital via TIPIX II, for which the sum of € 1.3 billion has been committed, the loans guaranteed by the Guarantee Fund which start through leverage are EUR 7,000,000. Why is the draft law on microfinance absolutely necessary? But because it covers the financial gap that exists in the business activity, setting up microfinance institutions that will enable you to raise funds up to EUR 25 000, without collateralists and with a repayment period of 12 months up to ten years. Who will be beneficiaries of these funds? All categories that had been viewed by the telescope as they could not provide the collateral required by Union banking legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the microfinance bill is not only necessary, it is innovative and that makes it even more important. Because it's not just the ransom lifesaving that flies into the healthy business in the troubled ocean of the pandemic. It is not just the new jobs it creates. It is the climate of confidence that is inspiring between the state and the citizens. It is a small representative mirror of Greece that we want: a pioneer, non fearful, flexible and capable of mobilising all its special collective abilities in time, entrepreneurship, competitiveness, adaptability and dynamism. It is a Greece that, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is finally leaving to the margin the stone years of SYRIZA, the constructions and parades that eroded the political life of our country, the threats, the free maggots, the mud in the fan, the murder of characters, the hunting of excellence, the misery of entrepreneurship, the strangulation of productivity. A Greece that some wanted to make it an exclusive country of benefits, of state-owned logic, of moderate and minor effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too, Mr. Tsavdaridis for the time economy. I'd like to call SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Nikolaos Srmalene. Here you go, Mr. Armachyn, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in SYRIZA's policy, as Yiannis Drasakis said this morning, there were two elbows for liquidity financing: One was - and is - the Development Bank, which was established by Law 4608 in April 2019. And the other elbow was the micro-credits policy. We consulted it in 2019, but it did not have time to vote. To the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and to the Members of the New Democracy I would like to say that we did not have time to vote, as many others do, because you want to compare two eras completely differently, a time when SYRIZA ruled until August 2018 in memoranda, which meant suffocating commitments to our policy and only eight months after we got out of the memorials thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people and thanks to the obscure efforts of the SYRIZA government. So we cannot compare apples with oranges, a time today when no budgetary stability pact exists because of the coronary, no other commitments, no surpluses, at least for 2021, and so you can exert policies without such commitments on the part of lenders and the European Union. This bill that comes today is a bill necessary to enable it to create a parallel financial instrument outside the banks, because if you heard yesterday at the joint meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade and Finance the President of the Association of Greek Banks Mr. Hadjikolaou, you would understand very well why professionals, small businesses, self-employed and why they are outside the banking horizon cannot be financed by cheap loans. Mr Hatzinikolaou considered that all banks are going well and that they are doing well, that they are financing the Greek economy, but he was unable to explain why of the 28 billion that he received at a negative interest rate from the European Central Bank, they have only entered the real economy 7 billion. He also talked about commitments, safeguards, and ultimately, he said that bank lending will not reach the most vulnerable layers of the economy. So all this proves the necessity of the micro-credit tool that is finally shaped in the right direction, after listening to the institutions. Of course, the bodies agreed, but also the conditions, made proposals, many of which you accepted, and that is a good thing, as you heard our proposals and comments and not only the Officerial Response, but also the other Response in relation to the participation of grades A and B and chambers in order to participate in the funding providers, while, respectively, the social and solidarity economy enterprises can be the beneficiaries, thus expanding the flow of funding to a decentralised level. There are still a number of issues, such as checking the eligibility of shareholders of microcredit institutions. We have tabled a relevant amendment. You did some legislative improvement too so we could see it by next Tuesday. We also pointed out the issue of supervision that is clearly given to the Bank of Greece. Our proposal is a form of cooperation between the Ministries of Finance and Economy with the participation of the Bank of Greece, because it is obvious that the Bank of Greece will have the criteria of a purely banking system. It will not have the criteria of a parallel financing instrument, as we want. I shall say two words about the other provisions and I shall end, Mr President. In Article 30, Mr. Besiropoulos did not reply today in relation to pensioners' retrospectives if the debts were written off for financial years for which they were registered. That's not clear. We need to see it by Tuesday. Article 35 for the ENVY continues the same logic of tax relief as EUR 500,000, but also more than EUR 1,000,000, which concerns about 14,000 people, which will have a financial cost of around EUR 24 million. The question is this: What would you say if this tax relief to the high-ranking people and having it headed into this line, for example, an increase in the incentives for doctors we want to go to islands and inaccessible areas? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 24-6-20: "Following the Comprehensive Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Armenia, on the other. Referral back to the competent Standing Committee Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you for your request. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with an observation about the climate of the days. Greek citizens are following what is revealed for the state, the parastate, the outlawing circuits, the shops, the money, the lot of money and all that disgusting. Greek citizens demand that everything be investigated, that everything come out in the light and, if there are legal actions, that those responsible be accountable to Greek justice. I now come to the point. This government may be the only government that in the first ten to eleven months of its government was called upon to face not one or two, but three major crises. The first, of course, is the health crisis that, following the struggle under the direction of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but also of all the Greeks, we have managed to bring our country to the point of being at the moment of a health insurance country and of course a healthly safe tourist destination, which we are opening the country's gates to tourism from the first month. The second crisis, of course, was the crisis that swept away the country's destabilisation plan from Erdogan with the "working" of refugees and immigrants. That is what we have achieved in the past. The third major crisis is the crisis we are currently facing and we will continue to face in the coming months. It is the economic crisis, as is prescribed after the lockdown of the economy, and everything that follows. In this context, the government has legislated a number of laws that make it easier for our economy to be re-established quickly so that the country can be back on its feet. Let's not forget that just a year ago we practically left this ten-year economic crisis in the memoranda. In this context, the government has legislated several things. The truth, however, is - and because, Minister, I come from an especially tourist area, such as Corfu, where 85% to 90% of the economy comes from the island's tertiary sector - that the major problem of tourist businesses is that they have not yet seen liquidity. There is therefore an important issue, because if there is no liquidity, if there is no movement, the economy of the island will not be able to work, and much now it needs it. And I say this because many banks still follow the criteria, as if this were a normal period, as if there were no coronary, as if there were no economic crisis. And I put this to you, precisely because I know how deeply you are aware of the banking system. My second point is that precisely because tourism means small and medium-sized enterprises, a seasonal enterprise, a business that only works four, five months each year, and these months are from May, June and then, you understand that these small businesses have a huge problem. They have no working capital to be able to operate and hire one or two employees who had so far. In this context, therefore, I would like to welcome your current initiative to bring this bill to Parliament. Of course in the past, in the recent past, about two months ago, we had tabled other proposals for the financing of small and micro-enterprises, which I am sure have been assessed by the financial staff and perhaps at some point also form an element of applied policy. I would therefore like to welcome this initiative, because even in this way too small companies will be allowed to take this money as a loan, up to EUR 25 000, so that they can operate their businesses. However, it is very important to see when this process will be completed, when these institutions will be set up and when they will be able to give the first appropriations. Because, badly lies, in a week of today, the country opens up to tourism and most seasonal businesses are closed. I am telling you again that in my own region, which I represent, a percentage of 50% to 60% of enterprises today say they will remain closed. So you understand that the procedures should be speeded up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u197	And that's what you're going to close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u198	I'm closing, Mr. President. Of course, the bill includes other very correct and positive measures, such as the extension of the checks, the parcels and the others, but due to time, I cannot develop them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u199	Mr Gika, you will develop them in the debate on the articles that will take place on Tuesday. At this point, I would like to say that on Tuesday we will have to precede the remaining Members on the list and who are the following: Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis from SYRIZA and from the New Democracy. Anastasios (Tasos) Dessakakis, Charalampos (Babis) Papademitriou, Konstantinos Maravegias, Tsabika Iatridis, George Amyras and George Amanatidis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate here is adjourned on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Statement of microfinance, financial regulation and other provisions'. We are entering the vote at first. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill. Make sure you vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u200	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u201	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u202	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘The framework for granting microfinances, financial sector arrangements and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-24-S1-commons.u203	With the consent of the House at 18.15 the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, 25 June 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "The Single Code of Procedure for the Court of Auditors, an integrated legislative framework for pre-contractual audit, amendments to the Code of Law on the Court of Auditors and provisions for the effective administration of justice".
