ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 17 January 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 359/13-1-2020 by Mr.Athens of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Surveying penalties for infringements in the LEAs strips’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 363/13-1-2020 by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Financing the health needs of Evia". 3. The Question No 373/14-1-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "The dramatic lack of personnel of Lassithi General Hospital based in Agios Nikolaos". 4. The 353/7-1-2020 topical question by the President of the Parliamentary Group Greek Solution and MP Larissa Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The operation of illegal NGOs in Greece". 5. The Question No 358/13-1-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Police arbitrary of the DIA Group against persons treated in 18 ANO". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 364/13-1-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Don't worry and questions about the course of the construction of the new judiciary in Heraklion". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 380/14-1-2020 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Declaration of the Commander of the Architectures that there is an order from the police to attack political crime, not criminal". 3. The question under number 381/14-1-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Enlargement of the poor transport situation in Petroupoli in the last few months'. 4. The Question No 382/14-1-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Expansion of the CYTY/Plan of Race in Area A protection of the term of Aegleo". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1965-15-11-2019 question by MP B2' Western Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Western Attica Hospital "Agia VARVARRA". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Florin of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The procedures for the creation of a freight centre in the former Gonnos Camp." 3. Question No 2014/19-11-2019 by MP Kozani of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Amanatidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Integration of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "AGIOS PAYLOS" in development programmes or the ESDP or in the Public Investment Program (PPC)". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-eight students and students and four teachers, from the 1st High Cesareans. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform you, children, that at the moment in the Chamber you do not see too many people, because today is a parliamentary control day. What's that supposed to mean? Members of Parliament who have topical questions are asking the relevant ministers, who are replying on this. That's why you don't see many Members. We do not have a plenary today where all the representatives of the nation here would be, because there are other occupations in their offices, like the Members who have other jobs. It is therefore a day of parliamentary scrutiny, which is why there are only the Members concerned who ask the relevant questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I have the honour to inform you that the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, by letter, informs us of the following: "To the Greek Parliament, Special Secretariat of the President of the Parliament. With this in mind, we are telling you about the Topical Questions debate within Parliamentary Control on Thursday 16 January 2020, that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: Questions Nos 36/13-1-2020, 366/14-1-2020, 371/14-1-2020, 372/14-1-2020 and 375/14-1-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Brutsis. Questions Nos 365/13-1-2020 and 379/14-1-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou. Questions Nos 357/10-1-2020, 361/13-1-2020 and 368/14-1-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food Mr Konstantinos Skreka. Please, as you take the appropriate steps to inform both the President-in-Office of the procedure and the honourable Members.' We begin with the third with number 371/14-1-2020 in the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The orgy of illegal strikers - terrorist mechanisms at the OTE Group against the struggling workers and the arrests of strikers". The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Stoltides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, OTE workers continue their struggle after a multi-day strike, demanding the signature of a single collective agreement (SE) throughout the group, regardless of employment relationship and equalisation of wages and rights upwards. The attitude of the employer is challenging. In meetings with the OME Federation - OTE again ask workers to support the strategy of broadening the group's profitability, a strategy that to date means huge profits, 1.3 billion euros for 2018, mythical dividends - more than EUR 300,000,000 euros this year - and for fragmentation workers at many different speeds, expansion of credit work, contraction, intensification without precedent, hunger wages for almost half the potential, reduction of staff with 'false' or non-execution. But that's not enough. Pressing on the dissolved labour relations, as shaped by the legislative framework of all governments in recent years, but also by Law 4016/2019 on the government of SYRIZA, which facilitates the anti-corporation framework of break-ups, seeks further hitting labour relations at the OTE Group, with the upcoming - what has been announced - work break-offs, the creation of subsidiaries, which lead to redundancies, etc. At the same time, he denies any debate on the signing of a collective contract of employment in subsidiaries and dismissed the prisoners in the middle of a strike, who have not signed this dismissal, who have not accepted the "ethnicity", while on 12-12-2019 he unawarely closed the subsidiary OTE - ACADEMY in Thessaloniki, dismissing three workers. The OTE's 7-1-2020 employer, devastated by the government's coverage and silence of the majority of the media, as well as angered by the failure of the efforts of social automation and the terror of workers, has gone into an uncovered attack on workers who were guarding their totalitarian struggle. He launched all the strike mechanisms such as homework, extortion of security strikes, co-operation with third party warehouses, hire of contractors during the strike, alteration of buildings, use of buildings of other businesses. He even attacked the strikers with the decisive intervention of the suppression of the state mechanism, the police, and sued and arrested strikers. Ask yourself, Minister: First, what immediate steps will you take to prevent any striker from being fired, as does labour legislation and the Labour Inspectorate from intervening, in order to cancel the employer's strike mechanisms, which are also illegal? Secondly, how will you contribute to satisfying the fair demands of the workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stoltides, I would like to assure you that neither government coverage exists against OTE's arbitrary actions, nor terrorism on the part of the government against workers, nor unnecessarily government attacks on workers, nor repression, using the police, did the government against the workers, but at the end - what you described as a labour law that does not exist in our country. On the contrary, all of this, let me tell you, because you are putting a huge responsibility on the government, describing a landscape of attack by the government itself against the workers, belongs to the area of your imagination. In practice, both the Government and the Ministry of Labour are guardians of labour law and labour rights. In fact, the Ministry of Labour and the Government also respects labour rights and trade union rights, which is a top priority for the Ministry of Labour and the Government, namely legality in the labour market. We have said this constantly, we repeat it and we will say it again: our Government's top priority is legality in the labour market. That is why, as I am about to say in my dentistry, the Ministry of Labour is doing what the institutional framework gives him the opportunity, but the responsibilities also give the Minister of Labour and the administrative bodies of the Ministry of Labour. I am going to mention the OTE issue in my dentext, but I can assure you that, in the whole context of the labour market, for all the businesses, with the bodies that we have in our hands, we are trying to safeguard the rights of workers every day, with the workers themselves in the Ministry of Labour, in all administrative forms, from the ADR to the employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. If you think that all this is in our imagination, which I, as a former employee in OTE and a participant in mobilisations and others, have seen with our eyes that we have dealt with all the mechanisms of employment and the state, well. However, complaints in the Labour Inspectorate have been made. He didn't move a finger. All methods used by the employer were mentioned in the complaints. Not only have you defended the workers from these illegal and blackmailing democracies of the employer, rather than - I say again - the complaints made, but you have not shown any doubts about the use of repression forces. In almost every building or shop on the days of the strike, and several times a day, they were even patrolling, which you ordered them to press, to ensure the individual right to work, namely the uninterrupted use of the ergonomie mechanisms of the employer. The same thing was said by the employer. And not all of this is enough, but in the group's versatile profits you have made sure to add other gifts: the reduction in taxation from 28% to 24%, the dividends from 10% to 5%, and then the reduction in insurance contributions. By their own, these three as a sum could cover all the claims of workers. This is your state, however: the whole service of business groups. And how else would it be? I would ask you, would any luck or any employer in confrontation with determined and organised workers without its state? No way. The struggle of the workers at the OTE Group, despite the fact that the popular "pads" of the media were automatically put into radio silence, shattered your development account for everyone, with "pieties" growing and everyone eating better. Turn your record down for the workers positive developments in PPC according to OTE standards. It helped many to understand, people who hadn't understood. We welcome the fair and courageous fight for the resistance of OTE workers to their future, a teaching test for the whole working class as a whole, especially now that, before it, it has to deal with the consequences of your development plan, which abolishes the collective labour agreements against a demand for BSE for an average wage on the one hand, and on the other hand, they will also face the re-signation of the majority of GSE for the maintenance of this disgusting minimum wage, which undermines all the collective labour contracts that have been left, every average wage that exists, every worker's struggle, as in the OTE Group, for a collective contract of work. Finally, we call on the OTE Group to turn its back on the compromise and subordination calls, which are called for by the employers' government union, your trade union forces in the group, in this regard. We call on the workers to continue their struggle. The struggle for collective bargaining is a struggle for the whole working class. Through this battle OTE workers have been equipped with all the necessary experience to lead their struggles to victory. The whole working class keeps track of them. He welcomes them to the militant division of the working class in France, which is in multi-day mobilization. It is at their side the popular layers of our country, which proved it on the days of the strike everywhere, throwing social automation into the bench of the unusable. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u8	Minister, please, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stoltides, there's someplace confusing, I think. Are you accusing us of government terrorism, supposedly because you saw police cars moving? This is a democracy, Mr. Stoltides. There are laws here. We are safeguarding democracy. This government is loyal to democracy, to the institutions of democracy. I don't know where you're talking about, what state behaviors you're talking about, but what you're saying isn't there. In any case, you started your position in your dentistry by memorizing us and criticising that we are reducing taxes and contributions. That's our ideology. That's how it's done in the world. That's how jobs are being created. This creates wealth, so that there are workers who enjoy resources and wages. I don't know which state you're referring to. Can you show me a state that depicts your own faith in the world? One. Say it. I'm going to paraphrase you all the developed world. Can you point me out to me a state, or are you just coming here and making a quote, which is nowhere in the world, the environment that you describe, at the level of the economy and society? But I'm actually going in. I am informing the College of National Representation that on 14-1-2020 in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under the chairmanship of my Secretary-General, Mrs. Strandakis, a three-way reconciliation process was carried out, in which representatives of primary unions, the secondary union and the GSE were present, OTE representatives, and four of the six dismissals. The Ministry, having always been concerned about safeguarding jobs and labour rights, has carefully investigated the demands of the workers and whether the employer side has exhausted any other means before it ends up in the most dismissal of all, trying to find a solution and to restore the work peace that we seek and is a top priority for the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry was informed on both sides of both sides of the voluntary exit programme, but on which the fired did not wish to join them for different reasons. In that context, he proposed to the employer, on the one hand, that he should review his re-entry to OTE by investigating the existence of any position for them, i.e. until yesterday's workers guards, who have ceased their positions and the operational need they had, i.e. guardianship, were treated as surplus personnel. In any case, and based on good faith, the Ministry also asked OTE to review whether there is the possibility of maintaining the voluntary exit program that it gave from about EUR 60,000 to EUR 180,000 cash in the employees' pocket and at the same time a guaranteed job in another employer with a related activity of the dismissals in case one of the decontaminated people has changed his mind and now wants to make use of it, so that in any case they can regain all options. The dismissal of a trade unionist for whom the provisions of Law 1264/1982 should be applied was also noted. So, you see, Mr. Stoltides, we are doing everything we can to restore working peace between OTE workers and management. And this is our pursuit and our effort. I therefore look forward to the final decisions of the two parties. In any case, the Ministry encourages the parties to take immediate action to initiate effective dialogue and negotiations on a new operational collective agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Confidence on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union'. In addition, with the Communication to Parliament dated 16 January 2020, the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Health, Justice, Home Affairs and State tabled a draft law on 14 January 2020: ‘Abolition allowance and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the United Arab Emirates for Mutual Recognition and Exchange of Driving Licences’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Albania on the mutual recognition of driving licences’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Federal Authority for Land and Sea Transport of the United Arab Emirates for International Road Transport of Goods and Passengers’. Also, Greek Parliamentary Group President Kyriakos Velopoulos and party MPs tabled on 15 January 2020 a proposal for a law: "Declaration of Exclusive Economic Zone unilaterally in the absence of agreement with neighbouring states". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the topical question under Protocol No 4/3 and deposit date 9 December 2019, sixty-eight Members of the Radical Left coalition, the responsibility of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, on the subject of ‘Continued police violence phenomena and increased crime’, scheduled to be discussed on Monday 20 January 2020, is, at the request of the parliamentary group that tabled the topical question. New Democracy Member Konstantinos Karagkounis asks, at his request, for permission to be absent from the President of Parliament from Monday, January 20th to Tuesday 21st, in order to attend work abroad, at the European Jewish Association for the seventh fifth anniversary of the liberation of the captives in the concentration camps of Auschwitz and Bernham. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u11	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also, the MP of the Radical Left Mrs.Happy Ahtsoglou, at her request to the President of Parliament, calls for a short-day leave from 24 to 29 January 2020, as she will be absent abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Finally, MP Laconia of SYRIZA Mr Stavros Arahovitis asks for authorisation for a leave from 29-1-2020 to 30-1-2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We enter the following three topical questions, which will be discussed at the same time, as they have the same subject and are the following: The first, with number 375/14-1-2020, is the second-round question, by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sultana Eleftheriadou, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The violation of workers' rights in the Kavala Fertilizers industry by Laurentis Laurentiadis". The third, with number 372/14-1-2020, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Fiscal Fertilizers industry Kavala and the unacceptable methods of Employers' Rights, the new attack on workers' rights". The fourth under number 360/13-1-2020 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament for Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “At the immediate treatment of the explosive situation in the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers industry”. These three topical questions will be discussed at the same time without affecting Members' rights. The time for Members will be the same, two and three minutes respectively, and for the Minister will be three times, nine and nine minutes, in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. We will therefore begin on the same subject, with a more specific title: "Backing of employee rights in the Kavala Fertilizers industry by Laurentis Laurentiadis" and the reason is the question of the honourable Member, Eleftheriadou Sultana, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u14	Minister, in politeness when you entered our Chamber you told us that you are one-offing Members' interest in tabling timely questions. I will answer to you that the attack on labour rights and the workers in the last six months, the first of your administration, with the bills you have voted on at the suggestion of BSE, has given employers a signal that they can do what they want and next are our topical questions to be directed towards your face and to your ministry. Of course, in this case, the case of Mr Laurentiadis and the country's only compost industry should perhaps be made topical questions to all ministries, namely the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development and Investment, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, as Mr Laurentiadis' tactics deal with all these ministries, and perhaps the next time I have given a personal reply to all these questions from myself. As far as employment is concerned, I am glad you said before that it is your duty to safeguard employment and trade union rights and to strengthen legality in the labour market. In short, as time is limited, I will tell you what has happened in this case. Mr Laurentiadis has decided to win only from the country's only compost industry hundreds of millions of euros a year and not to pay its debts. Since 2015, through the creation of adolescent companies, always of interest, it has received millions of euros each year and does not pay its debts neither to PPC nor to the Greek State, nor to the banks. Inside this pursuit he has decided not to have an undetermined worker within the factory. By fidelity in 2016 to hundreds of employees, he fired without compensation for dismissal of all the workers who did not agree to be fired by ELFE and transferred without any right to the parent companies created by Mr Laurentiadis. SYRIZA, through the Ministry of Labour and the Secretary-General of the Ministry, Mr. Nefeloudis, was a brother to the workers and under his supervision at the Ministry of Labour, were signed on 1-2018 private contracts, with which the workers returned to work and all the companies created within the factory until that time, accepted that they would continue to work on contracts for indefinite duration and that any company in the future and if it takes the operation of the plant, the workers would be transferred to it by contracts of indefinite duration without having to sign anything. On 31-12-2019, on New Year's Eve, workers go back to work and Mr Laurentiadis refuses to accept their work. In fact, they are "dismissing" and at the moment hundreds of workers are either out of work without knowing what is going to happen and asking your Ministry urgently to take their place and make a trialogue with the company where they will be given a solution, whether they are in the factory having signed fixed-term contracts with the "new" company and having renounced all their working rights. You ask yourself whether the government intends to condemn Mr Laurentiadis' illegal practices and intervene so that the thirty-five employees will return to work under contracts of indefinite duration, but also to restore the working rights of all workers at the factory. You also ask how you are going to deal with the continuous appearance of 'new' companies' of own interests, which are aimed solely at decommissioning 'ELFE' from its debts, operating the plant and gaining hundreds of millions of euros of debts. The fact that the new companies are members of and of the same interests has already been demonstrated by dozens of judicial decisions by the Monomele Court of Kavala and the Court of Appeal of Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u15	Mr Mulkiotis has the floor on the same subject as his question specifically: "Immediately dealing with the explosive situation in the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers industry". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, following on from what has been said, it is no accident, of course, that three parties have a timely question on a major issue, which I would mention from the outset is being deaf. So in the industry of New Karvalis Phosphoric Fertilizers in Kavala, which is the only industry, as it has heard, of phosphate fertilisers that operate in the Greek area, a region where its survival and healthy functioning become imperative for a large part of the population, there is an explosive situation. The property resorts, as it has been said, to continuous creations of adventurous companies in the knowledge of the state, which sees to pass through such companies every day and deaf the property, after this action, is inaccurate with clear working rights in order to obscure traces of economic turbulence. With deliberate manipulation, the property of Laurentiadis seems to be ignoring and indifferent both to the rulings of the courts, but in particular to the position of the employees of the company, setting up new companies, in order to circumvent the obligations arising from individual Labour Law, as provided for in Greek and European labour law. The ownership of the plant, Mr President, and Mr Minister, and the real owner of a multitude of parental jobs - I repeat many - is calling for hundreds of thirty-four workers and for their families to accept loans to a newly-approved company with no guarantee of their working rights, but as has in any case been stressed and without taking into account the standards of respect for the health and safety of workers at work. Indeed, as a measure of pressure for accepting these requirements, he has used a ban on entry and employment to those who are calling for self-evident safeguards, that is, their rights. Moreover, despite the request of the Greek Chemical Industry Federation, it has not yet been decided to hold the tripartite meeting at the Ministry of Labour. Minister, on 17-12, there is a request for a reconciliation procedure from the Federation to the Ministry, which states that the whole process must be carried out and, indeed, that the other participating companies, such as HELPE SA, the New Carval Fertilisers, the PFIC LIMITED, the ELAGROLIPA SAVE, CENTROFARO SERVICES LIMITED ATHENS, companies of interest, as you know, Laurentiade, which, of course, in the sense of 'limited', find where they are and where they are. An open letter on 9-1-2020, again of the Greek Chemical Industry Federation to you, Mr Minister, says what you are doing and what is not yet the establishment and process of reconciliation. However, the Ministry is still deaf. Society in Kavala is revolutionary. The Municipality of Kavala and all entities unanimously - all entities! - apart from the New Democracy Members, with their exceptional absence, they have been on the side of the workers and they are also calling for the conciliation procedure. I therefore ask you in particular - and I ask you very much to respond to your protology, so that we can respond to what you are going to say - when does the Ministry intend to plan, why is it delaying - if not refusing - a trialogue meeting? Is the Ministry concerned with the hostile behaviour of the employer toward workers? And if so, what additional specific actions do you intend to take in order to settle the dispute? We have also asked you, Minister, and I will expect you to answer today how many checks have been carried out over the last three years in relation to how heavy industry operates next to the homes of the people of New Carvali. What immediate action does the Ministry intend to take in order to ensure the protection of working rights, to respect the health and safety rules of workers and to avoid possible negative effects on the environment? And we've been talking before about the holidays in a hundred and thirty-family families who continue to be prey to the interests and intransigence of Laurentiadis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Ioannis Delis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor on the same subject, with the most specific wording: "The phosphate fertiliser industry Kavala and the unacceptable methods of Employership, the new attack on workers' rights". Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in Kavala the only fertilizer factory left in our country is now operating. Let us consider the liberalisation of the fertiliser industry, a policy which has been served by the European Union and by all governments. After his release, then, this factory from state bonds, as they were saying at the time, was found in the warm embrace of entrepreneur Laurentiadis. He was supposed to have bought it in exchange for the payment of the company's debts, something that never happened. At the same time, with the pass of the factory at the hands of the operator concerned, the design of the so-called "rehabilitation" of the plant is unfolded. Reconciliation medicines are very well known, you are serving them, not to say that you are already giving them, Mr Minister, and you and your governments and your current and previous reductions in wages and rights, the recruitment of fixed-term contracts to contractors, the so-called 'employers' - this disgrace! - constant pressures on debt arrangements and so many others. And so, the attack on workers from this businessman, like all businesses, broke out fiercely. Those who were under indefinite contracts had serious wage cuts in 2012, lived their borrowings - yes, workers are borrowed other than material goods, that's where we've arrived - in a new company. Since then, this trick starts with the participating companies in 2015 and, of course, with the first attempt to completely abolish collective agreements. Of course, workers reacted - and very well they did - to mobilisations, to strike. What did they meet? But what the OTE workers now meet, what they meet in the port with 'COSCO'. The employer's response was vengeful redundancies, bracelet violence, as well as state violence by MATs. The workers insisted, continued their mobilisations and after a court struggle to which they were entitled, the employer was forced to retreat and apply the terms of the previous contract with the private contracts signed with everyone. All this until New Year's Eve a few days ago. So in New Year's year's time, the employer proceeds to the next step of her new attack, with the new company's method, as we have said. They leave New Karval Fertilizers and are now renamed Kavala Fertilizers. The company is trying to end what was forced by the court ruling on the employees and attempts to get them to sign a new loan agreement. We should not say here that what the workers have conquered did not give them any Nephrouds and no SYRIZA government. Employees won them with their struggle and with their judicial jurisdiction, and they were obliged and the government and the employer to implement it. And this judiciary is now trying to override it. The question is very specific, Mr Brutsi. What will you do for the thirty - five workers who are being blackmailed off by the employer to reduce their wages and rights? Will you tell us something about the so-called change in the production activity of the fertiliser factory? You understand that if that happens, and the last remaining compost industry in our country won't exist. And in any case, what are you going to do? How are you going to deal with this particular employer's tactic, but others - it is not just a policy that this individual applies - with the creation of so-called 'parents' companies? Will you, too, proceed to graceful arrangements for the debts they say, creating the phenomenon of indebted business and businessmen? We wait anxiously to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 9th Primary School of Korydalou (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. Don't bother you guys that today doesn't have a lot of people, there's not many Members here. Today it is a procedure called parliamentary scrutiny and it is only the Members who deal with up-to-date issues of everyday life and ask the relevant ministers. We do not have a plenary today where all the Members are. It's just that you don't mind being a few MPs. It is only the honourable Members concerned who are concerned. Minister, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, before I put to the questions you have raised and before I identify exactly what it will do - the Ministry of Labour and what the Ministry of Labour is doing on this particular issue - because just before the other question on OTE I think it seemed to me that the Ministry of Labour is here and protects the working rights of workers and contributes to the work peace and reconciliation between workers and employers - to make an introductory contribution to what I have heard mainly from the SYRIZA MP. And I say this because I think it is a pity to the intelligence of both the workers and the Members present here who are listening to the debate that SYRIZA of today's government has suffered the flag of safeguarding labour rights. I would remind you this way of history - something that we agreed on, we were not opposed, but in your own area you say that the flag is being sent down - that for the first time in the history of Labour Law the complete release of redundancies was done by signature SYRIZA. Your signature became the release of redundancies, which never existed. May I remind you of "50%+1" in the strike with the signature of the SYRIZA government? And you give up on us and they call it the workers? Anyway, the jobs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u21	Tell us specific things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u22	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u23	I know you're upset now, because the truth hurts. The truth hurts. I know, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. I know the truth is annoying because it's irritating. But you do, but you vote. At the end of the day, we are six months government. You request the government for Mr. Laurentiadis with all that you describe. Four-and-a-half years, what have you been doing about this whole framework which you described just now and you are responsibilities for Mr Laurentiades' economic behaviour, as you describe it? Four and a half years you've been government. What did you do? So when we come here and place ourselves in public, we should be careful, serious and responsible, Mr President. We cannot suddenly wake up one morning and think that the world has changed, while we have had this world's responsibility for many years because others have taken over the bitch. We don't eat gossip. Everyone remembers - and memory remains - your political, social and economic behaviour. In any case, let us be judged by those who are following us. Let me get in a little bit. I would therefore like to say to the honourable Members that the Ministry of Labour is present not only in this case which we describe and I will tell you what action has been taken, but in total the Ministry of Labour is present in the problems of workers. He is a custodian of safeguarding labour rights. Above all, Labour Law. The workers are in the soul, the pensioners, the weak people. This is the government's social policy. That is where we stand, realistically and responsibly, but not in words, not with theories and vineyards, but with realism and responsibility. So only you can support the worker. It's not about knocking his hand on his back and closing his eye. It's not to be nice to him. It's to be useful to him. To raise his wages, wealth needs to be created and wealth must be created, business must be created and growth must be achieved. What you are saying, your worldview is a shrinking economy, an increase in redundancies, a reduction in employment. We're different worlds. We see them more realistic, more responsible. In any case, don't worry. The Government and the Ministry of Labour are doing its job very well as far as possible. Of course businessmen are not angels. Of course, there are unacceptable and abusive employers' behaviours. There were, there are, and there will be. There's no one who can put a hamburger on. But it controls the Ministry of Labour, it has control mechanisms, and that is where we, as government and as the Ministry of Labour, are next to the workers who are affected by labour rights, and that is what we have done and we will do emphatically and with great intensity. In this regard, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, following closely the issue raised concerning workers in the Kavala Pseudomonas Fertilizers Industry and in the context of information to the honourable Members, I quote: First, for companies operating or operating on the premises of the Phosphoric Fertilizers Industry, many checks have been carried out and continue to be carried out by the inspectors and special inspectors of the AAR, at times by detecting labour law infringements and imposing fines and sometimes not, where no infringements are detected. Secondly, in the last two years no complaints have been made at the local agency of the APRC and always the body is fully prepared to investigate any complaints from workers, whenever they are made directly. Thirdly, and also in the last two years, according to the data from the APRC competent authority, the accidents that have taken place have been of a light form, except for one fine of EUR 30,201 due to a lack of security measures. And fourthly, some workers are in a long court proceedings against their employer, many of whom have been justified and for whom the court ruling is being enforced. In so far as it does not respect the proper enforcement of judgments, however, justice is the responsibility of the Court. In any event, to judge any infringements of a derogation from the compliance that it imposes, justice shall be responsible. I note here that several of the workers - some forty - left their jobs following a voluntary exit programme or applying for retirement. Some of the remaining - about one hundred eighty two workers - were fired and brought to justice. In fact, many of them have been judiciaryly justified for their re-entry. I reserve my second word to answer the steps that will be taken from now on - and we have already started - by the Ministry of Labour, waiting to hear Members' questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u24	Thank you too, Minister, especially for keeping time. Here, Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for two minutes for your dentistry because of the interest of the subject, although you have exhausted almost all your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u25	First of all, I wanted to ask where this document you just read to us from Kavala S.A.? Can I have a clarification? Is it from Kavala S.A.? Because in the Kavala RCF over the last three years because I happen to be the worker's lawyer and I know the slightest aspect of this case, there have been dozens of complaints from workers and, of course, they have never been investigated. Even today we are talking about the Kavala SAR are hundreds of workers and make a complaint. As far as accidents at work are concerned, we know from Kavala that the employer is blackmailing those who have accidents at work and does not let them go denounce them. And if anyone denounces them, it has the consequences of the law. This is also known in the Kavala SEA. There shall be a judicial decision. In response to the JRC's colleague, I would say to him that there are, of course, legal decisions that judge the employer's tactics abuse and illegality. But always, when the employer does not respect judicial decisions and when he asks the government concerned to help it, the government in question should take a political position. The Members of the New Democracy, the Governmental MPs, recently attended a meeting in favour of Mr Laurentiadis to sign a memorandum - a resolution and put it before Mr Laurentiadis at the court that he had against the DEPA, in a court that the DEPA is asking for its money. The New Democracy MPs led by Mr. Garyros Lazaridis presented and signed this resolution in favour of Mr Laurentiadis. They do not come to support the workers whose judicial decisions have been justified. In Kavala in particular, Mr Lazaridis says that Mr Mitsotakis' position is not to support these workers. He refuses to come to any debate with the workers, Mr Lazaridis, and, indeed, forbids it from anyone who wants to attend meetings in favour of workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, there is Ministerial Decision 46/2012, according to which contract workers within the factory are banned. There is Presidential Decree 178/2002 on protection measures for workers in the event of the transfer of the operation. There is Presidential Decree 81/2003 which talks about fixed-term contracts. There are Community directives. These are laws of the Greek state, laws that you have not yet made - fortunately - abolish. All these laws are being circumvented by Mr. Laurentiadis. The Ministry of Labour must take place and its position must be only one, that the workers, who have been made redundant, return to their jobs again and within the factory, all those who work with fixed-term contracts, become indefinite. That's not what SYRIZA or the workers say. It's the law, Minister. And this law, you have to not violate him once.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u26	We will now give Mr Mulkiotis the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. We were following the theory of the Minister and we noted, Mr President, that he did not in fact reply to the questions raised, saying at the end that he would respond to the steps taken by the government in his second language. So I ask you this: what will the honourable Member say now in the timely question he has asked specific questions in dentistry? What will the Member answer to the prototype? We must respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. It is a rule which the Minister, in my appreciation of his face, has to observe rather than treat this method. It is a permanent methodology of the Ministry of Labour to refer to the denology of what the government is doing. And the role of the congressman who is he? So, what's he gonna say? What should I answer now in relation to my question? The same goes for my fellow Members who will in fact be unable to answer why the Minister has said nothing. Nothing has been said by the Minister in his prototype, and the Bureau should at one time raise some specific questions about how responses are given. In addition, Mr President, I say this because you see it, but there is no comment on the way in which it is answered. What the Minister wants, but to answer the questions, why now what can I answer, because he said nothing to protology? He says very clearly to everyone that he will respond to the denology of the steps taken by the government. So what's the matter? The topical and urgent debate on the subject is incomplete, and it is in the sense of coming today as a topical question. Mr Minister, after this, and what you say, it is clear that in the last two years there has been no interference by the Ministry's services with regard to compliance with the health and safety rules, because there has been no complaint. Do the services of their own accord have no power to carry out any checks and in a chemical fertiliser industry, of phosphate fertilizers which have the meaning in the field of compliance with the health and safety rules of the Seveso Protocol? Is there no mood, no procedure or any sensitivity to comply with these rules and to whether they are respected? I wonder about the document which you have been given to the House and the reply you gave to the House that over the last two years they have done nothing and that there is no complaint of workers. Where did this come from, called such a thing in the House from the services? I wonder, and I don't know how you handle it. Seveso. Health and safety is a Seveso level, not a simple process. In addition, Mr Minister, you have not responded because the conciliation procedure is being delayed. The Federation of the Chemical Industries of Greece has raised a matter. Why is the reconciliation process delayed? Since December there has been a request. We've arrived in Genoa. Open Federation letter to you. No answer. Why is he delaying a month? What else was supreme, when a hundred and thirty-four families are on the street, and anxiously they're looking to see what's going on and you're deaf? What's your role, what's the role of the Ministry? Will it intervene or apply the logic of Pontius Pilate, well with them, but also with them, or do we leave all the rest of it like that? In any case, Minister, was the absence of the New Democracy Members from meeting all actors in Kavala, or was it appropriate for these Members not to take a stand on such a procedure? It is regrettable that we are dealing with and seeing today in Parliament about how to deal with this issue, because we are not talking about a mere case of employers' arbitrariness, but about a flagship sample of the anti-developmental logic of the 'business'. That's the only way we can call it. It is part of an extensive network of corruption and opaque transactions. This is a very serious case, Minister, at work, developmental, energy, environmental, as everyone wants to say. I would ask you very much to know in particular. Today the House needs to know when the process of reconciliation will take place at the Ministry and what reasons it has been delayed so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Delis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that I fully endorse Mr Mulkiotis's point of view on Mr Brutsi's paralysing tactics, saying that he will not answer the question, that he is reserved for dentistry and that he will make some introductory remarks. No, Minister. Here you are obliged, you have come to answer. Introductory comments you can do whatever you want in interviews or wherever you think otherwise. In relation to the words you said, the big and fat words that the Ministry of Labour protects workers' working rights and laughs at cement, look at them. These, Minister, go tell the OTE workers who are fighting now. You should go and tell the workers of Kavala fertilizers. Tell the workers at the port, 'COSCO'. You should tell the hotel staff who have dulled them and literally disgusted them by the big-timers. You can tell all those who have contributed to the abolition of their collective agreements. You remember, to answer SYRIZA - because you see it's a very convenient opponent - SYRIZA's anti-virtual measures. But, if I remember correctly, Minister, you and all the other Members of the New Democracy were happy to come along to vote for these measures and say so. So I don't have to ask you whether you're going to remove them. You think it's one of the prisoners, you have it, and you move forward. Now we have asked you - and we will ask again, unfortunately, why did you not give any answers - about the so-called liberalisation of the compost industry and what is going to happen in relation to this factory? Will this also have the luck of the ‘Thessalonica Fertilizers’, the ‘Principles of Drapetson’? What is the effect, Minister, on the agricultural production and the rural economy of our country? Below, we have told you, we have asked you again whether you and your government will go ahead with regulations, as all governments regulate, while respecting these traditions of the great capitalists who charge the debts of their businesses, of course in the backs of the people. However, what we have asked you - and what we are asking you and is the main question of our topical question - is what is going to happen with these attending companies, some companies like the dolls of the Russians, the bamboos, which come out of another two years and carry the workers as well, constantly compressing their employment rights and wages downwards. Is it or is this method not lawful? It is, Minister. This was the right of this businessman, Mr Laurentiadis, and he has it with New Democracy, as he had it with SYRIZA, as he had previously with the PASOK governments. No one banned him from doing it. Who gives them that right? But your policy, the policy of all governments. Who gives them all and Mr Laurentiades and all the Laurentiades, throughout this class of capitalists, to move forward and change workers with a permanent and stable employment relationship with contractors? But their governments, your governments and yours and the previous ones. Who reduces wages? Who's reducing rights? Who's reducing pensions? Who is caring for the workers and who gives incentives, exemptions, large capital for the "Laurentiades"? In short, you and all your governments? Of course, you have confessed that this is your ideology. You do not deny it, at least you are honest, because - he says - you seek work peace so that the workers are fully subjected to cemetery silence and the "Laurentiadis" literally perpetuate. Because we must also reply to an observation made in our party, to say that the attack of this businessman, like everyone else, has not started on these rights in the last six months, it has certainly continued these six months and this attack has been intensified. But this attack existed and occurred in SYRIZA years before, because all these parties serve the same policy and strategy. In any case, Mr Minister, your governments, your governments and you personally, like previous governments and ministers on labour, are not neutral and you may appear as Pontius Pilates. You are collaborators in the attacks on workers, since your policy, the one you are serving, arms the employer's hands with a bunch of legislative weapons to literally perpetuate and find a thousand ways of attacking workers and bypassing even those decisions of the courts, such as Mr Laurentiadis now. The workers have a road and we are now addressing their unity, their struggle. This is their only guarantee if they want to keep and increase their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Minister, for your second-guess you have nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delia, I'm starting with you, MP of the Communist Party. If you want us to ideologicalize the conversation, we can do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u32	I recognized it for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u33	When did we hide our electoral convictions? Of course, the New Democracy is a liberal with a social party. We are a party, which represents responsibility and logic and at the heart of our policy, we have man. That's why New Democracy was created as a political body to serve the man, the worker, the weaker one. And what we do and where we used to be governments, you see they happen all over the developed world. There are achievements, beyond the problems, pathogens. Wherever you look around you in the world, there are matchings of our policies in developed countries. I will ask you one question: what you say, tell me a country in the world that exists. You have not answered that question! There's no question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u34	Can we answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u35	What the Communist Party says about what part of the world is being implemented? You come here and you're sniffing in favour of the workers... It's not for the workers, you know that. If, the unborn, you ruled for one day, we would have millions of unemployed or poor unemployed or people who would be raccoons and would be with the allowance and the chess.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u36	The first one would be you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u37	Don't worry about it, then! Respectfully, in your consequences. Okay, our democracy works. We're listening, but up to a limit. You'll get answers when you have to. So let's go to my next colleague. Mr. Mulkiotis, I'm here and I'm constantly answering questions. I would remind you - because you were not a Member - in the previous parliamentary procedure, SYRIZA was absent. They did not even come to answer the current questions. They weren't coming to answer. And you see here the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and the entire government every Thursday and every Monday that is parliamentary control of being present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u38	In his dentistry, the Minister must respond to the Members' philosophy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u39	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u40	You won't force me and how I speak. You came to this House to say how I am going to place myself in this House, that is, the procedure, how I want to speak in this House? Oh, no. Listen, say that where you can go. I will speak to you and answer you in the same way as my political formation and strategy imposes. I move to SYRIZA's MP, Ms. Eleftheriadou. Mrs Eleftheriadou, I would like to tell you that the three Members of the Kavala Prefecture of New Democracy are always on the phone with me. They have the same sensitivity to the workers, both to their prefecture and to their town, to the whole prefecture. We are constantly on the phones and are interested in the same, with the same passion for the workers and overall for the entrepreneurship of their prefecture and are fighting every day for the benefit of their country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u41	They're hiding it from us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u42	And it is inappropriate for you to show your fellow Members on their fingers because they care and I confirm that today in the House. But I want to ask you. I was surprised to hear that you were a lawyer and represented the workers before becoming a MP. I heard you say there were accidents at work that covered them. And you as a lawyer who represented them, what did you do? Were you allowed to cover up the accidents at work? So let's get serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u43	But now I have to answer that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u44	I enter the procedure for the matters concerning the steps we have said and the actions of the Ministry of Labour that is present. It is present and fights every day on the side of the workers, the unemployed and the whole country's rights, looking after labour rights. Before Christmas, on December 12, 2019, the secondary trade union representative - just before Christmas, right? - a three-way conciliation procedure was requested, before which an informal meeting had been held with representatives of their workers and trade unions, with our Secretary-General, Mr Mulkiotis, Ms. Strainakis. You know Mrs. Strainakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u45	December 17th.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u46	With our general secretary. It's over. You know what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u47	On 17 December, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u48	However, the two issues that were already under way which concerned the employees of Piraeus Bank and OTE, together with the permissions of officials and the Ministry and the celebrations that were on the request, on the holidays, prevented their timely performance. Christmas Eve!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u49	December 17th!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u50	Today, I inform this House, in the questions which have been raised, that it has already been scheduled - and note the tripartite conciliation procedure for Tuesday, 21 January 2020 at 14.00 at the Office of the Ministry of Labour and the Secretary-General's office. In this process, the specific issue that has arisen will be investigated in depth and the Ministry of Labour will assume as it is its responsibility to restore working peace, interfering with the limits laid down by the law to find a solution, exhausting all the means that this law gives us and aiming at safeguarding workers' working rights and guaranteeing their non-exhaustiveness. Therefore, in the context of the reconciliation process, the measures to be taken will be clearly defined, after the Ministry has listened to both sides to secure jobs for the hundreds of thirty-four employees in the Kavala Fertilizers industry. So that's what we're about to do at the Ministry of Labour, prevalenced, Mr. Mulkiotis, what you said just before that we're inactive and that the Ministry is from there. The Ministry is present and indeed shows its determination to all the questions you asked about the protection of workers' rights. We're here, we're responding, we're taking action, we're protecting the workers, we're moving within the law with a difference: Because you weren't a MP last time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u51	From 9 January... (not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u52	...to know that this seat was not honoured by SYRIZA ministers in similar cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u54	There's no personal matter now. Estimates are made by you. He did an appreciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I was treated professionally by saying that we are folding accidents at work. What more personal? I want to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u56	He made a judgment, just like you did. I remind you that the staff have two legs....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u57	It wasn't a crisis. He misunderstood my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u58	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u59	If it wasn't personal, then what was it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the sixth question under number 366/14-1-2020 on the second question by the Member of Parliament for a second cycle of Boeotia of the Change Movement, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'The compulsoryity of the sectoral collective labour contract between employers and workers in all kinds of tourist and food shops in the country'. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Brutsi. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware of the fact that, on 12 December, you have also signed a press release between the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers in Food and Tourist Occupations - as workers - and between the WTO and GATTE - which are employers - a sectoral collective labour agreement involving about three hundred thousand employees in food and tourism stores throughout the country. On 18 December, therefore, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, you, published a press release celebrating the collective labour contract, saying that it is immediately being implemented, but without specifying whether it is to be declared compulsory. Indeed, in the light of the provisions of Article 56 of Law 4635/2019 - whose resolution raised a storm of reactions from both workers' representatives and opposition parties - the responsible agency asks workers to justify the need to declare the contract as compulsory. So invoking the press release - which I will also present in the Minutes of the House - you said, Minister, that it is one of the largest sectoral collective labour agreements in Greece, as it concerns thousands of workers, that it provides for increases in the wages of workers and, indeed, it is the result of negotiation rather than of an arbitration decision. This is an association of your Ministry in relation to the sectoral collective labour contract signed between workers and employers. [[At this point, the Member Georgios Mulkiotis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] However, so far no other procedure has taken place and this collective agreement is on the air. Questions are clear, and I would ask you to know your answers in order to answer my denunciation. What, then, do you intend to do with the largest sectoral collective labour agreement in the country? Do you intend to act on the obligation of the collective agreement to regulate the conditions for remuneration and work in the food and tourism sector? Also, in what way, Minister, will you take care to ensure that businesses in the food and tourism sector do not compete unfairly and that the consistent employers and the four hundred thousands of employees, distributors and waiters who expect the government to make a practical contribution to increasing their standard of living? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I am challenged by Mr Mulkiotis and it really is causing me, because Mr Mulkiotis may be a new MP, but it belongs to a party which has history and history, Mr Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u64	Since when, Minister... (not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u65	You, in the way you ask me today, after you are criticising the procedure I have been in, I would also criticise you for coming here with your question, indirectly but clearly, to ask for the law that has been in breach of the party that has been in support of it for decades. It's Law 1876/90. That is what you say indirectly but clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u66	You're misinterpreting, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u67	But what are you doing, wicked? "You close the eye" to the workers, you mock them and come sloppy and wicked, now representing the Movement of Change - and I do not think that the level of the debate should be that - you say that "violate Law 1876/90 in favour of all workers", that is to say, "I close the eye" to the workers, "but there is also Law 1876/90". That's hypocrisy. Mr. Mulkiotis, that's what the definition of hypocrisy is. So I'm actually going. Indeed, Mr President, the Ministry of Labour has received a press release. Say hello to the branch contract. And she basically welcomed it, because it is a very positive step, as well as the Government and the Ministry of Labour are in favour of sectoral agreements, but also for an even more important reason. It confirms in practice that the recent law we passed did not abolish the sectoral conventions. It did not abolish the collective agreements, as three months ago in the House there were several MPs from the Officerial Representation, both from the Eleonne and the Major. All of this has been disproved. Indeed, this is a very large sectoral collective labour agreement involving hundreds of thousands of workers and disputing the arguments which we have had in this House over the last time about the law on labour market reform. So sectoral contracts exist. I would like to inform the House of this, so that all the parties can be cleared up. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: First, it encourages, supports, supports collective negotiations and fruitful social dialogue. Secondly, it acts as a guarantor of jobs and a custodian of labour rights. Thirdly, with concrete measures, actions and policies, it hits undeclared and undeclared work, imposing sanctions and fines on the diagnosed infringement of labour and insurance legislation. Fourthly, it modernises the framework for implementing the rules on labour law by simplifying procedures and reducing bureaucracy, but always in the light of transparency and the non-exhaustiveness of labour rights. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Fifthly, with arms and bases for the timely question you have asked, Mr Mulkiotis, I would remind my fellow Members that under the recent law, Law No4635/19, and Article 56, we have improved the framework of the institution of expansion so that it is now required to extend a sectoral convention to 50%, rather than 51%, which was before, of the workers in the sector who are employed by employers' organisations signatories to a collective labour contract. To obtain a documented confirmation from the Ministry of Labour to cover the above percentage, according to the figures in the Trade Unions' Register of Workers and Employers' Organisations, which for the first time we have established, modernising the whole framework of our country's Labour Law, by safeguarding trade unions and workers and employers, which we first introduced in the same law, in order to ensure accurately the truth and transparency for the accuracy of the data. The conclusion of the consultation of the parties to the Higher Labour Council on the necessity, but also the consequences of extending to competition and employment is something we are doing at the moment. In addition to this, for the first time, we have introduced the possibility of exemptions from the extension of companies in serious financial problems and are in a process of bankruptcy or extrajudicial conciliation, as the Committee of Experts proposed in 2016. The criteria for making such exceptions, as well as the certificates or other evidence required, shall be regulated, in the light of the opinion of the Plenary Assembly of the Labour Council, a timely institution of high prestige and value, involving the social partners, taking provisions to ensure jobs. This is the procedure, Mr Colleague, which we have to follow. That's what the law says. I understand from the question that this is where we close our eyes to the workers, trying to manipulate them or cheat them and take their vote or mock them and say, Mr Mulkiotis, the honourable Member, that you should apply the sectoral collective labour agreement to all, without being evaluated, without the law being applied. We are guardians of the laws, rules and institutions, Mr Mulkiotis. We will respect labour legislation everywhere. What I have described is now predictable. It is the law that has been passed recently, but it is a law which starts with Law 1876/1990, the Supreme Labour Council. You, as a party, have previously respected this law and the expansion of the sectoral collective agreement. And you're coming with your question to tell me to violate him? Oh, no. The government and the Ministry of Labour will not violate the law. They'll keep him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u68	Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u69	Minister, we have to say what we have to say in relation to what is happening. There was no sloppy question or a deliberate question. There was a clear and direct question. You have a sectoral collective agreement since 12 December, and you are celebrating with a press release that is of major importance and value and that has so far not moved, as required. That is the major question. You can quote what the legislation says and what is provided for. Yeah, it's all known. But why is this bureaucratic malfunction and the delay and this collective agreement not being declared enforceable? Why are we letting these workers be the prerogatives of a situation uncontrollable? And what do we say to you, Minister, since we must not avoid mentioning what is happening and what is regulated by this convention? That it regulates the rights and obligations of over four hundred thousand workers. The food industry has been declared, on the basis of SETE controls, a champion in both black and uninsured work and falsely declared work with part-time contracts and workers working for 10 and 12 hours a day. And all that you see, you know it and you let it pass. The train passes through so many illegalities and violations and you refer to theories and, more generally, to predictions of law. Legal provisions are well known. However, the result of this real situation, Minister, is the terrible evasion of taxation - you know it - the evasion - that you know - of public funds and also of workers. Waiters, how are they getting paid today? Are they paid in accordance with Article 54 of Law 2224/1994? Oh, no. You know that. That's what the contract says today. It solves topics for decades. It has ten years to sign such a contract. You see her, you know, you celebrate for your own reasons, but you don't do anything direct. And you come to the House today and say 'we will observe the law'. We didn't say you weren't complying with the law, we didn't say you were breaking the law. Stay away from us such procedures. Legislation must be respected, but it must not be obstructed and we must not go into a bureaucratic way. Because that is how the Ministry treats it, completely bureaucratic and in contradiction and contrary to what you mentioned very clearly in the press release that was tabled in the Minutes and you celebrate. So we said about the waiters. Should I tell you about the delivers? You know it. You know what these people are pulling. You know that they are paid at 2,70 per hour and the costs for the dicyclopedic are again borne by them. You know these things and we leave them prey right now, and there is a contract that gives them immediate rights to find solutions, to secure their rights and to be decent in their work. So all this is solved by this collective labour agreement and by the article which refers to this many specialty I have mentioned, that of the dealers. It is indicative, Minister, of the working jungle prevailing in the area that this year's Christmas gift is paid to workers only three of the ten businesses, and of course there is no mention of bank payroll and proof of bank deposit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For these reasons, this collective agreement must be concluded. That's what we're asking. We're not asking for anything else. And you should not address the questions that are being asked hostilely. These are questions which contribute to this process. Labour relations need to be upgraded. I don't care what the previous government did. I don't care! And should I say one more thing? What's he gonna say you're a new congressman? I didn't expect to hear it from you. Each Member has equal rights. It is not a new or old issue in the Rules of Procedure regarding the voting time. Minister, I'm on my way. Proclaim immediately, yesterday, in relation to the behavior you have shown and the documents you mention... Don't get a press release. Say you'll judge it and see it later, after you sit down and study and face what this contract says. He still hasn't come out with the data we have today. I believe that for the month of December this would be the Christmas present for these people, this sectoral employment contract. That would be Christmas present. And that would be an act of bravery on the part of the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u70	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u71	Let's start with agreements, Mr. President. I am pleased that we both agree that we are in favour of the sectoral collective agreement in the field of foodstuff. You're in favour and we're in favour and we're glad you're supporters of sectoral conventions. It's a reality. It was defended by the Ministry of Labour, defended by the government. That is why the press release was also published to welcome the sectoral collective agreement in a workplace with the symptoms and pathogens that you described before, which no one really can question. But, at the same time, this issue is an issue that we welcome as a government and finds us in agreement that there is a sectoral collective agreement. It is something we welcome. It's a huge place on the labour market. And it is very positive that the sectoral collective agreement was created. I repeat it is very positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u72	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u73	But be careful, Mr. Mulkiotis. I now don't understand what you are. Are you in favour of breaking the law? So do we have to make the sectoral collective agreement compulsory or comply with the law? Because now on the one hand - be careful - you tell me to preach the mandatory, close your eyes, go to the Ministry and sign, while there is the law. What are you doing? Isn't that hypocrisy? And you tell me at the beginning of your position. "Not far from me hypocrisy. Compliance with the law’. That is the definition of contradiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u74	Don't paraphrase what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Mulkiotis, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u76	In your question you ask: "Will you sign it? Will you make it compulsory?’ Isn't that a mockery toward the workers, Mr. Mulkiotis? Aren't you making fun of the workers? Is there any law or isn't there? I'm asking rhetoric now, because you don't have the right to speak in the process. I ask you: are you for or against the law?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u77	I said it very clearly, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u78	You did not say so at all. You have hypocritically said so, and we must observe the law and declare the contract compulsory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u79	Don't misinterpret!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Mulkiotis, don't interrupt! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Mulkiotis, you can't make fun of the world here. Double games you can't play! And one more thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u82	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u83	That's all!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u84	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, you're not the respondent. You are an experienced parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, it is confirmed here that the sectoral agreements exist. Because Mr. Mulkiotis voted against the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u86	Is that an expression you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Kegeroglu, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u88	Is that a phrase? ‘Subrogator’?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u89	Easy. Why? It's hypocritical. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u90	The law is incomplete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. Do you want to interrupt?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u92	The law of SYRIZA suits you. That's all. Say it! The law of SYRIZA suits you. It's just things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Kegeroglu, you with such experience, don't interrupt. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u94	You should have intervened, Mr President. There is no hypocrite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u95	That's the Minister's answer. That is the way Parliament's control is done. What can we do? But you can't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u96	He can say it's political hypocrisy, but not that he's a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u97	That's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u98	What's that? This is personal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u99	This is the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny. Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u100	No matter how much Mr. Kegeroglu is trying, the truth can't fade her. It's hypocritical, Mr. Mulkiotis' attitude. It mocks workers by saying that yes, we want this sectoral collective agreement to be compulsory, which we support...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u101	Well, of course you have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u102	...and the next moment it says no, the law is respected. It can't be both.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u103	Don't misinterpret what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u104	You misinterpret what we say, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u105	Look, to make it clear, there is another thing, which I consider to be very important. I think it is very important - and this is what we say - that the sectoral collective agreement exists, that it concerns hundreds of thousands of workers. We welcome it, we are in favour of it and confirm that, according to the recent law that we passed in the House three months ago, you can also make collective labour agreements and free collective bargaining and that the convenings between workers and employers are also achieved. This collective agreement confirms this, the sector we are talking about today. So I'm hanging up with this. It cannot be made mandatory because the law must be complied with. And the law has specific steps and procedures. This law, which has been in question since 1990, has been in dispute with him, a law of 1990, which has been observed both in PASOK and in the Change Movement and is observed by all governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u106	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u107	The hints, the hypocrisy toward the workers don't fit. No one can make fun of the workers. There is the reality, there is the law, and today the representative of the Change Movement came to say, with his question, that the law was violated and made compulsory by the way I want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u108	Don't misinterpret. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u109	That is how you said it in your speech ten times and in your question. Your question is breathing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u110	Minister, don't misinterpret. I understand you're deadlocked. You're losing your temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u111	Please, Mr. Mulkiotis. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u112	So, Mr President, at this time we are saying before the National Representation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u114	Wait a minute. But how will you take the floor? Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u115	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I address the Bureau. These behaviors never existed in the past. And you know why they didn't exist? Because when one time on SYRIZA happened there was an answer from the Minister of SYRIZA, the behaviour of the Members of the New Democracy was always worldly. Now, to interrupt the honourable Member, which is not provided for in the procedure and which was just invoking the procedure, that goes beyond every limit. So on the substance of the matter, to conclude. Your question was a failure, because it was essentially intended to undermine workers' intelligence. We are in favour of sectoral collective agreements. The law will be respected in February by the Higher Labour Council, as planned by the law for decades, and will assess the possibility of compulsoryity and expansion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u118	Wait a minute. First of all, I don't think there's any staff. Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure is very clear. If the Minister or any MEP said something exaggerating about you, about the speaker, it is one case or if he altered the content of what he said. Here and here you have made a criticism, and the Minister made a criticism of what you said, interpreting the legislative regime that already exists. If the legislative regime needs to be changed, it is another matter. The plenary is responsible for changing it. Do you now insist on talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u119	I insist, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u120	Good. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have the floor for a minute, to tell us what the staff consist of.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u121	The Minister made a personal statement, considering my question was hypocritical. I therefore come to the Greek Parliament, presenting a timely question as a hypocrite. It is the staff, which is declining for my personality and for a political and professional course for decades. I don't allow that to anyone. He cannot answer that if the Ministry is politically affected for a question which is being asked. The irritation of the Secretary-General is pleasing to me, because the question is that it really affects him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u122	Wait a minute. What's your staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u123	I think that the designation and phrase 'as a hypocrite', and I ask the Minister for political criticism, too, to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u124	Good. Before moving on to the next question, ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, the Minister did not reply. I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u126	The Minister's not answering the staff now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u127	He didn't say it himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u128	You said what you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u129	What position do you take as the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u130	It's known in this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u131	You are in line with the logic of the Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-four students and students and four teachers, from the 8th Municipal School of Nice. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The Workshop of Democracy", organized by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, twenty-eight students and students, and two attendants of their teachers from the "Chrysostomos" Municipal School of Nea Izmir. The House welcomes you. Let's tell you guys, today's Parliamentary Control Day. What does that mean? It is a fundamental process of the Greek Parliament and of our democracy, which MPs are dealing with topical issues that concern society and everyday life and ministers are coming here to answer. That is why it does not mean that there are not many Members. Members are doing a great job in committees right now, working on legislative work and preparing legislation. That is why not all the Members are here today. This process is fundamental, top and deals with the current issues that generally concern the whole country or the local parliamentarians of the provinces. The first question will be discussed under number 365/13-1-2020 in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafa, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The risk of lack of personnel in the "Athens Andreas" Paedopolis in Alimos. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna Michailidou. Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Today's topical question, Minister, is at the same time an urge to resolve the problem of St. Andrew's "St. Andreas" in Alimos, which is supervised by your Ministry. It hosts at least thirty-two children on a permanent basis, between four and twelve years of age, and at the same time seventy-five children on a takeover that must be covered psychologically and socially from a child's point of view, a children's town, which - I repeat - operates on a 24-hour basis and must be covered by at least two shifts. There are three issues which I want to raise briefly. The first is the big problem and time-consuming, I would say, of the staff - I repeat - which I ask about by urging it to resolve. Since the period of the SYRIZA government, there has been a call for tenders through an APA to cover three hundred and ninety-three permanent posts and additional recruitment has also been launched. It was also foreseen to extend the contracts of the already employed workers. I would like to point out that subsidiary staff and staff who were a matter of renewal of contracts, this issue went on and that is a good thing. However, it is still unresolved of the great problem of permanent posts, since a proclamation that has been advanced by us - I must admit, without knowing why - it has been cancelled, a year has passed, and at the same time it has been reduced in a strange way, arbitrary, I would say, without documenting the planned number of three hundred and ninety-three seats in three hundred seventeen, so that, when the seats with the officials are covered, we will again have very great shortcomings. I tell you traits, for example, that as it works without an organisation and an organogram, paedophile and possibly other structures, they cannot benefit from mobility. That is, while they are losing staff from mobility, with the application of the law, I mean, at the same time they cannot get from mobility. Thus, all this great need is covered - the double shifts, children, assumptions etc. - only two social workers and a psychologist who serves the pedophile part time. There are - very soon I shall refer to two other issues, related. One is Law 4538/2018 on adoption and assumption. I think you agree, too, that it has gone too late. It is about staff and the need to speed up procedures for the very serious adoption and assumption process. That was the second. Thirdly, a special issue, but also an important one, is for children over twelve years - and indeed for boys - who do not have structures in the wider region of the capital to cover these children. They must either go to the province - it is problematic, you understand, out of their social circles - or be covered by a non-governmental organization, if they are able and invited to do so. So I would like to say again that I would like an answer. I ask you, and I urge you to deal with the problem. My position has to do with the need to increase permanent staff positions. I would finally say that there should be an establishment plan, an organization for this structure and for the related structures. We also need to see - see - the issue of promoting, speeding up adoption and assumption procedures and the specific problem of boys over twelve years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u134	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish you all a good year. I think we will agree on identifying the problem. I will, however, begin by being quite specific to three issues which you have raised and which I wish we had found in a different situation. The first mistake, to which you referred, is the notice of competition, which you "watched" through ASP for three hundred and seventeen people. Unfortunately, that did not happen. If that were the case, our situation and position would have been much easier. Because what has happened is that you in 2018 legislated three hundred and seventeen permanent staff in the welfare centres throughout the country. But even if you legislated in 2018 and predicted that the notice had come out by February 2019, you did not get it out. So what you did is you modified the law, which you made yourself to get out of the notice in June 2019. You again didn't get the notice in June 2019. So, on the first day - and indeed - we took over at the Ministry, and since we understood how important these positions, which you have made, declared and come out, we have'removed' them. Thus, there is already the notice from the AACC for the three hundred seventeen posts. If within a year and a half that you had legislated, you had already done it, you would have made it easier for us, but in particular all our fellow citizens who are in the welfare centres would have facilitated them even more. So, what do we have? "We've been running" in five months already this notice of the AACC for the three hundred seventeen posts. Of these three hundred seventeen - if I'm not mistaken - the seventy-four are in the Attica Social Welfare Centre and eight of them in "St. Andreas". Beyond these positions, organic positions have also asked for sixty-four - if I am not mistaken - the Attica Social Welfare Centre for 2020 this year. Then, as you quite rightly said, it follows from the Social Welfare Centre Agency to identify just how many places they need, so that they can be officially registered. As far as the agencies of the welfare centres are concerned, which is a very high priority, I would remind you that it is planned to issue agencies by means of a Presidential Decree from 2013. All the years of the previous government, that is, 2015 until 2019, these agencies have not come out. And, as you yourself admitted, and commonly understand both, they are absolutely necessary for the effective functioning of all welfare providers. I come to the second point, that of adoption and assumption. It's very important to us. I understand it was important to you too. I also understand that it is important for everyone in our country, for all our fellow citizens. There, you were right to launch Law 4538/2018, which for political reasons - if you wish - is to say that it is in the right direction too. But being in the right direction, unfortunately, there is a lot of divergence from starting and implementing properly. And while you legislated, on the implementation side, we have been far behind all these years. What is the key to implementing this law? It's the electronic platform. How's the online platform? It makes the so-called matching, identifying, if you want, the association between the prospective parents or the candidate contractors and the children that exist. There you have stayed behind on three essential issues which we have resolved, the two in whole, the third at the end of this month. The first is that you hadn't registered and we registered all the applications that were in place so far for adoption and assumption. So we registered them, they're already registered and they're there. The second is that you hadn't registered me - and with my own personal, very great effort, telephone number many times - we registered all child protection bodies. There are more than ten public bodies and over seventeen private-law legal entities. I say more than forty-seven because they are forty-seven legal persons together with their annexes, and I stress that it was a great difficulty to register legal persons under private law, who, unfortunately, did not want to register their children and on my own initiative many times I took an institution - an institution to say to them: let us put the children in. We all have to go to this effort together. It must be whole from both the public and private sectors. And thirdly, we managed to register a child-child in these institutions. This ends in January 2020. But we do not just want to move on to the foundations. What we care about is the whole policy of decoupling. That is, until the children from the institution go to a parent or foster parent, what we want is to ensure that these children are not in the institution, no matter how good the circumstances in this institution are. Because that is why we are here to ensure the framework and the functioning of these treaties. Is that why we're doing this? Two things. Firstly, we inform people of the ascensions, because the ascensions to many of us are simply an initial stage in adoption. No, the assumption isn't that or that's not all. The assumption is the care taken by a child, until the competent body, the public prosecutor, decides that his physical family is fit to be re-occupied. So we strengthen the ascensions and through the information of the world and through the creation of a geographical network of candidates, so that the child is close to his physical family and does not need to be removed from it. I conclude with this. Child protection and this framework are a very high priority for us, hence, and as you have seen, the Prime Minister took it as his personal initiative at the event we held on assumptions - adoptions in December. We know that you and everyone in this Parliament have similar concerns. So we are waiting for your views, your proposals, and I also want to see the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs working together on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u136	Madam Minister, you have also covered the time of dentistry. I would ask you both to be a little shorter in view of the fact that you have exceeded the time limit. Here, Mr Balafa, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Despite my very good intention and despite what the Minister said, I must admit that I am not very quiet. I understand what you're saying. I know the difficulties, or I think I know, but we're definitely not calm. I will also study the Minutes, what you have said, and we will insist on the way in which the problems are solved. I just want to make two comments and raise a point which I think you did not raise and try, perhaps, in your second language. The smallest number, the reduced number in permanent positions creates a problem in itself the function of children within the structure. There are several examples, namely, the very small number of caregivers, the very small number of staff responsible for the issues that should be dealt with better, that is, only nine social caregivers. There's a staff problem with specialties. We need to see better. And that is why we insist, and I would like an answer to that, that there should finally be an organization, an organogram, because you will know what you are expecting, you will know what you have, you will be able to exploit, say, or use for your benefit, that is, pedophilia, the issue of mobility, which at the moment cannot be exploited. Secondly, I would like to say that efforts are being made to take over and adopt them. I don't think you're satisfied, too. It's about the staff and other procedures. Because you know, dehydration is the master, not to stay children and put in the foundations, the little ones growing up, etc. In this sense, please, give us an answer on what to do with the agencies and how to speed up the issue of adoptions and assigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u138	The State Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you and I will try to respect what you have asked for, Mr President. As to the fewer positions. The law was yours. The legislature was SYRIZA's, in 2018. You know - and perhaps better than I do - that when you legislate and anticipate positions, part of these positions must go to special population groups, namely, in multitudes, in the families of disabled wars, in our fellow people with disabilities. So, given the number you've been proclaiming, we've come up with the three hundred seventeen, because there's always so-called, if you want, reservations on these special population groups. About the agencies. I fully agree with you. However, I imagine you will agree, when the need to establish organisations in all welfare centres and institutions that we supervise existed from 2013 when the composition of welfare centres was predicted, your previous government had done nothing in this respect from 2015 until 2019. We've already made moves with the new leadership of social welfare centres to look into it again. And the deadline we put them was until the last Friday of this month, to ensure that the organisations that have been submitted are the ones that we as political leadership have to press for their completion. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Last and most important of all: both the issues you raised were issues which you legislated in 2018. In other words, both the legalisation of organic positions, but also of Law 4538 on adoptions, was in the right direction. But for a year and a half you have done nothing about it. And I say to you that both, that is, in six months' time and a half, we have already received the notice of the AACC for the three hundred seventeen posts. But also in the law on adoptions and ascensions we have managed in six months and we have done three things: firstly, we have registered all the applications that already exist electronically, secondly, we have registered all operators, private and public, within the electronic platform and thirdly, by the end of January - and I commit myself to this - all children with their own files each within that register will have been registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, too. Happy birthday to those who didn't talk about it. I think we've only been found with the ministers. Joy and happiness to your families! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers from the 9th Elementary School of Korydalos (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. Happy birthday to you too. Good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The fourth question, with number 379/14-1-2020, will now be discussed first cycle of MP B2 West Athens, Mera25, Mr. Kritonas - Ilias Arsenis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject of "Social dividends to SMEs with insurance and low pensions". Mr Arseni, you have two whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I wish you, too, in my turn a good year to all and those who are watching us right now. The issue of supporting people with disabilities should be a common place for all of us. It is an issue that I do not imagine in this Chamber, to disagree - and I hope no one in society - that it must be a priority and that we all need to do everything possible to solve the mistakes, many times, or the abuses that exist in the laws. In this case, I am referring to the social dividend, which even though it has been shown that it concerns all disabled people, we keep track of exceptions and omissions. In particular, persons who have insurance or persons who have a low pension are often excluded from the social dividend, although their total income is lower than those who receive it. I will also submit to the minutes the table showing a disabled person 67%, with a delusion, which is uninsured or insured public, a monthly grievance and CRL, totalling EUR 930 benefits, and is the beneficiary of the social dividend, while a disabled person with 67%, with the same disability rate, and with the same disease, grievance, insured to the ECA, receives monthly extra-institutional allowance and CRL benefits of EUR 930, that is to say, exactly the same as the other person, and is not entitled to a social dividend. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I should like to end by a half a minute in this part. A disabled person of 67%, with cancer, is uninsured or indirectly insured, receives a monthly benefit and CRL, a total of 513 euros and is entitled to a social dividend, while with the same disability rate, a pensioner receives an invalidity pension, a total of 288 euros, and is not entitled to a social dividend. It is an obvious injustice and I think you too will agree that we need to correct it and I would like your commitment to that. I give you the table in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna Michailidou. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. We agree on the need for more effective policy with priority for our people with disabilities, and I understand the question that you are putting before the National Representation. It's perfectly reasonable. Our decision to give social dividends and indeed the limited financial space we had, given the previous government's decision to exhaust all the budgetary space that existed as a result of the overtaxation of the Greeks for the previous financial year, giving the so-called thirteenth election pension in May 2019, left us much tighter budgetary margins. So we had to be very specific about the population groups that we would find with a social amount - hence the social dividend - in order to give this dividend. That is where we made four very specific decisions. To be granted to families with two short-term unemployed or a long-term unemployed member with an income of up to EUR 15 000 and at least one dependent child, to households with four dependent children with an income of up to EUR 20,000, and finally to households with at least one member with an invalidity regardless of income and regardless of age. There goes your question. To be specific in this respect, I will say what the difference between the two is. The difference is that those with social security took part in the so-called social dividend with the tenth pension paid by the previous government in May 2019. So we considered it fairer and given that there were budgetary limits on how to allocate the money that was available from the overtaxation of the Greeks, to give those who had not taken it. Who were our people with disabilities who hadn't? Those who weren't retired. Therefore, pensioners with disabilities received a social dividend, according to the decisions of the previous government, in May 2019, and to inspire a sense of justice, given that our fellow people with disabilities who had not received the social dividend in May 2019 were those who were disabled beneficiaries of the Social Benefits and Social Security Agency, we considered that they should also receive a reasonable amount, which could help them. That was the logic. Nevertheless, you know that the issue of disability is not an issue that we are dealing with in budgetary terms alone. It is not a matter that we are dealing only with in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs but it has now taken it as a priority, and the Prime Minister and Minister of State himself and we are looking budgetaryly and financially at how we can help our fellow citizens, in particular with health care services and measures to integrate or reintegration them into the labour market, but also with an overall plan to destabilise them and their independent living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, we agree with the findings, I fear we disagree with the priorities. And I am sorry to say that because I heard your previous answer and thought that you will be more essential to the LEADER issues. You said there was no financial area. However, the government has chosen to give minimum social dividends and, for example, to give EUR 99 million from the tax-free budget area, by reducing HPAI to people with real estate of more than EUR 500,000, which was really unjust social. Also, many hundreds of millions of euros have left the budgetary margin for the horizontal tax exemptions you have chosen to do in big businesses and in small and medium-sized enterprises, and very large could not have this tax reduction. So it's already a matter of choice. What is very critical, however, is that the situation in Greece is very bad and described by the UN. I will read to you the note, the recommendation of the UN to Greece. Recommends Greece to reform relevant legislation and practices concerning privileged allowances, pension benefits and tax exemptions for disabled persons by harmonising existing rules and repealing discriminatory rules and practices. It identifies the UN that there is a distinction in Greece as regards these policies, that we are making mistaken and unfair discrimination among citizens, including those in the disability certification system. The Committee recommends that Greece ensure the effective implementation of the existing social protection framework and develop further measures to ensure an adequate standard of living for disabled people. What is crucial and - if you want - is my question at the end of the question is that there should be income criteria, so that there are no injustices at first, that someone who has less benefits and who has more needs not to take, but, above all, that I am honest, because these are the crumbs that we share, that we are honest - what is needed is to increase the allowance and to increase the benefits to these people who really have no other means of biopoliticism. So the main thing is to put a change of priorities into policies so that money really goes to those in need and increase the social dividend to all disabled people. And, of course, the least we are asking is that there should be no unfair distribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. Mr Domna Michailidou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Priorities of our government - as far as I understand - are two. One is growth for all Greeks, and the other is social protection and social protection, especially for the most vulnerable of us. Therefore, over there what is needed is a very good balance in terms of social and development expenditure. I understand what you are saying, but on the other hand you understand that in order for the state to be able to protect and care for the most vulnerable of us, budgetary resources must be from somewhere. So, the government's development policy, which is partly designed to make sure that it is possible for the most vulnerable, and that it is able to raise - if you like - the standard of everyday life for all of us, especially those who are most in need, so that public services are at a much higher level, requires that a tax policy, a mixture of fiscal policy, can make investments from the outside, create internal investment, create internal demand, make the available income higher, and then allow the government, with the right - above all - to channel resources towards social care and social policy, which it also creates through the Ministry of Labour. There are therefore income criteria over there. Whether we can and how we can provide more targeted, more effective and in a wider range of social benefits and in kind and in money, it is something we are trying to do as best possible. The government's aim in terms of social dividends was very specific. There I think you will recognize that it was much more specific and careful about the most vulnerable groups than what had happened in previous years. So where did we go? The government's social priorities. Who were these? Our fellow people with disabilities, the multitude of families with a very large financial burden, but they are also absolutely necessary to resolve the demographic issue of the country, which is a very serious problem, but also the unemployed, the short-term unemployed, the long-term unemployed, with priority, if you wish there, to the single-parent families, who unfortunately have a special relationship with the rates of extreme poverty. We started with a specific targeting, and as far as I understand what you said, I think our priorities are in the same direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-seven students and students and three teachers from the private high school "The Greek Education". The House welcomes you. Happy birthday and good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The following topical questions, which deal with the same subject, will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, in application of the provision in Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure: The second under number 357/10-1-2020 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament for the Change Movement, Michalis Katrin, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Aid measures to support olive growers due to adverse developments in the olive oil market". The fifth under number 361/13-1-2020 is a topical question of the second question of the MP Argolis of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Indirect measures are needed to support olive producers'. The seventh question, number 368/14-1-2020, is a second question to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on ‘Support measures for olive oil and olive producers’. All the honourable Members will have the floor for two minutes each and then the Minister will answer. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today we are discussing a topical question for which you see the interest of all colleagues and the Change Movement. We believe that you should already have taken initiatives and responded to an issue which is of great concern to the vast majority of the regions in which there are oil producers who, unfortunately, are facing dramatic conditions. In both Elias and many other regions of the country, unfortunately, we see this year that olive oil prices have been the lowest in the last five years. It is the second year in which producers see their income falling further for different reasons each time, while production costs remain quite high. This year we had a very low price in the product at the outset. There is a tendency to import olive oil from countries which have secured duty free under agreements with the European Union and due to the imposition of duties by the United States to these countries trying to bring oil into our country and to pass it as Greek. Of course, we also had a failure to activate the storage mechanism of the European Union for our country, because of the very bad year of last year and small stocks. We in the Chamber of Deputies last year - for example - had a financial loss close to the sum of EUR 50 million. Of course, we have different problems: low verticalisation, lack of promotional campaign, lack of manufacturing units and a high level of olive oil circulation. Of course, at the same time this year we see the price falling as the weather passes. We fear that there is no control and, of course, at the same time, unfair competition. Last year's leadership, Mr Arachovitis, the Minister of Government SYRIZA, said that he asked the European Commission a question about EUR 30 million in compensation, due to reduced production, and we want you to tell us whether this question has been formulated and what is the fate of this and whether you have updated it if this has been submitted. Of course, you will tell us whether you will ask again for private storage and what initiatives you are prepared to take to support the large percentage of producers in the country who see day after day, week after week, the price to reduce their income, the cost of remaining high and, of course, all this will lead them to a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much Mr. Katrin. Series is the fifth under number 361/13-1-2020, a topical question by the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "We need immediate measures to support the olive producers". Mr. Poula, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, strong concern and anxiety are causing the Argolida oil producers and the whole of the country the price of olive oil which in our country is stuck at historically low levels, even lower than in other countries. This is mainly due to the chronic diseases of the olive sector, the lack of a national strategy and the problems that our country has in comparison to the competitive countries. Although production is increasing internationally to meet growing demand, in Greece production is well established at low levels and in addition, prices of oil are extremely low, so that producers are in a difficult economic situation. For example, Spain's great production, especially last year, changed internationally the supply and demand relationship, and this is evidenced by the fact that last year's producer prices in Greece did not rise, despite the small production, but fell. In Greece, which is the third country to produce olive oil in the European Union after Spain and Italy, from the high-quality olive oil produced, unfortunately only 30% arrives at the standardisation stage. The remaining 70% are sold in bulk, mainly in Italian industries, to be used in contaminants of different types of olive oil and to be sold as Italian. In fact, we are unable to sell our oil on our own. Today, Italy continues to buy oil from our country, but not exclusively, as it has done all the previous years, but takes from Tunisia and Morocco, but which have significantly improved the quality of their oil. So at the time that the other countries are taking steps forward, we invoke the only weapon we have, which is the excellent quality of our oil. But, as things are evolving, we will also lose this comparative advantage. So the great weakness we have in the area of standardisation is also a serious factor, which keeps prices low. It is well known that both cooperatives and producer groups are in difficulty to invest in bottling and standardisation of the product. Another major problem that exacerbates the already difficult financial situation of producers is the very high cost of production, which is higher than in the competitive countries. In particular, I shall refer to Argolida. We have a matter. Our big theme is water, Anavalus. This project, which has been cancerd for so many years, must be completed at some point, so that at least producers can get water and get it at a low cost. On the basis of what I have said, I would ask you, Minister, what measures you intend to take to reduce production costs and what measures you intend to take to restructure the olive oil market and strengthen producer and cooperative groups in order to move forward with investment and increase the added value of the product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u152	And we thank Mr. Poulla. Next, the seventh, with number 368/14-1-2020, is a topical question for the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Support measures for olive oil and olive producers’. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the cursor of Greek olive oil in recent years has been the tragic situation of this year's crop. We have a decline in production from extreme weather and other causes. We have a deterioration in the quality of certain quantities precisely for the same reasons, which have to do with extreme weather patterns, but this is now unprecedented in all years. The quantities of olive oil, which are quite important, I would say - which are of excellent quality, of course, for olive oil from all of the country and Crete - are being sold and demanded at degrading prices. I use the word'requested' at degrading prices. The causes are mostly two. The first cause is the possibility of importing into the European Union for a large increase in the quantities of duty-free goods from third countries, which is the threat. Regardless of how many quantities are imported duty-free, this compresses prices downwards. The second cause is the harmonised practices which exist at European and national level. Of course, we must emphasise what has been advertised very much, success, and it was something positive for us and negative for others, which probably continues to apply to what was the case in previous years for us: duty-free olive oil for the United States of America, and links were imposed in other countries. That's probably working negatively. And it probably works negatively, because there are no controls, and why there are the issues that I have told you with harmonised practices. What seems to be happening? What's going on in the street? What is denounced by producers, but also by people involved in marketing and standardisation? Quantities of Spanish and Tunisian olive oil are baptized Greek and are exported to the United States as Greek. This means that the unclaimed lives ours or they only take as much as they need for the name and the invoice to show that it is Greek oil. I am making an official complaint, based on what producers and people of the market tell me, and we are asking for specific things. What are we asking? Apart from accelerating decent compensation for olive growers - it is not only this year's year, but it is all three - four previous years, you must take it into account - apart from everything that needs to be done to the European Union, in order to activate all funding and compensation mechanisms, from de minimis to PEAs and other mechanisms, you must finally make three moves. The first concerns a request to the European Competition Committee on the subject of harmonised practices at European level, the Greek Competition Committee on harmonised practices at national level and, thirdly, laboratory testing on samples of all quantities. To check laboratory to determine the origin of the olive oil. There is this possibility through science and laboratory testing. It has these possibilities and you must make these three moves, which I think will put a stop to unfair practices, unfair Greekizations, and they will immediately give a boost to the price of Greek olive oil, which is really about Greek producers, who, unfortunately, have to bear, while they are trying, see that this year the price is about seven, eight and ten years ago. Excellent quality olive oil and it says there is no demand. That is why I said'requested' at this price, because the quantity is covered elsewhere. It is not so dramatic to increase the volumes this year at a global level. The toys are, unfortunately, all converging to hurt Greek producers. Thank you, Mr President. We are waiting, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas at the same time. Here, Minister, you have nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members of the Change Movement for the timely questions they have put to us because we have the opportunity to have a serious debate today in the national Parliament on the basis of your questions about the most important agricultural product, which the country produces, which is olive oil. I would very quickly like to put to the essence of the questions, which are, in principle, about the very low prices on the market today when it comes to selling olive oil in bulk, so as to say so, in a 'bulk' situation, at wholesale prices, which are indeed much lower than in previous years. Of course, I must say that the answer I am going to give you has been included in what you have said and in the text of the questions you have put, but also in what you have referred here to the Greek Parliament. Why do we have lower prices for olive oil this year than in previous years? I replied - and Mr Pulas, Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Katrinis said so - to how the price of olive oil is shaped, but also to all products, within a free market. It is, of course, shaped by the law, by the rule of supply and demand. What do we have this year, unfortunately? We have a bigger offer than the demand there is. Mr. Kegeroglu said that attributes. Products requested at prices too low. Can the Greek state do anything to increase the sale price today on the free market? You are all aware that within the European market and within the world market, where the rules of the free market and the rule of supply and demand prevail, a country cannot price the product, i.e. set the selling price for the product. How, then, is the prices of the products determined? They are perhaps identified by demand and by supply. When we have a great deal of demand and a smaller supply, then prices increase. When, on the contrary, we have a great deal of supply and less demand, then product prices are falling. What has happened today in our assessments at the Ministry of Rural Development? We have large productions in all the main olive oil producing countries. We have a very good year in Spain, which is the largest olive oil producer in Europe, which has, together with its stocked quantities, more than seven hundred thousand tonnes, which is almost two and a half times more than Greece produces on an annual basis. We have a very good production in Italy. We have good productions in countries outside the European Union, such as Tunisia or Morocco which has been heard, but Turkey too, so we have a greater supply of olive oil. You say you have complaints that there is an attempt to Greeceize imported olive oil on the grounds of the intention of the United States, which is a great importing country, to impose duties on certain European countries producing olive oil. First of all, let me point out the fact that by personal intervention by the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Greece is exempted from imposing duties on olive oil and on edible olive. In fact, as far as edible olives are concerned, Greece is the only country - after that, I repeat, from the personal efforts of Mr Mitsotakis, but also from the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, namely Maki Voridis and I personally - exempted from the customs duties they wish to put - or are going to or are planning to put - the United States of America on these products. So you understand that it is explicitly and categorically forbidden, a country or a producer outside Greece, to try to exploit what Greece and the Prime Minister of Greece have achieved and to sell a product that is not produced in Greece as Greek. That is why we have here and the data from ELGO - DIMITRAs who carry out these checks and the next period will intensify the controls as regards what you have complained about - we do not have any such incidents and complaints at this time at the Ministry - please since you really have such complaints to file them with us so that the services responsible can take over and stop what is going to be illegally, paralysed, probably as you say from some other producers outside the Greek area. This is dangerous to happen. You understand that taking advantage of another, not one producer, what the Greek Government has achieved poses risks even for the Greek producer. I want us to be careful, therefore, of what we are saying and what we say and to be haunted by concrete evidence. I would ask you very promptly to present them to us, so that we can deal with this if there is indeed one. The same is true of harmonized practices. It has been heard that there is a cartel within Greece and outside Greece that keeps prices low. Please, if you have such evidence - because here we have the official information from the Greek Competition Committee, which is responsible for monitoring complaints, to investigate whether they have a basis and to impose fines in case these complaints are actually proved to be happening - to bring us the information to the Competition Committee in order to deal with the facts. However, if we exclude these risks, such as cartel or illegal Hellenism, let's go see the essence of the matter. Finally, what can the Greek government do to ensure that in the next few decades, in the next few decades, Greek farmers continue to grow, produce oil and produce decent income, which will ensure their survival and the survival of their family, but also the possibility of them continuing to remain in their fields and their lands, to cultivate, maintain, take care of their olives and olive trees and invest in their jobs? What the current government and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development has planned: interventions in two areas. The first is the reduction of production costs, the safeguarding of the good quality of water, which you said, of the soil, of course, but, as I said, the low cost of production and, on the other hand, the achievement and safeguard of the extra value added, which must be added to the Greek product produced, so that producers can obtain a higher income. Let's go a little to the production cost. We voted a month and a half ago, which is really subversive with regard to both Greece and Europe and all over the world, that is to say, the possibility of reducing the electricity used to irrigate its crops and its surroundings and its olive trees to zero off the cost of electricity and not just to have an additional revenue from the sale of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, and not only from PVs, but also by removing the cost of electricity, once its investment has been amortised to remain in the fields. What did we vote for? The possibility for a farmer to become an autoproducer of electricity, that is to say, to build a photovoltaic which by 25% the electricity he produces to meet all of his own electricity needs and 75% which the photovoltaic produces can sell to the electricity system and have an income and that this revenue, which comes from 75% of the electricity produced, will give it as collateral for the loan received from the financial system, from the banking institution, and thus depreciate his investment and once he is amortised, that is, once he has repaid the loan over a period of six, seven years, then 75% of the energy he will sell and receive income, to remain at his own discretion. Why did we do that? Because you know that the vast majority of the workers neither has easy access to the financial system nor can it get loans and probably their property is mortgaged on previous, former loans. So, in this way, we give the opportunity to have additional new safeguards and new income, which the bank can guarantee and thus do what we have already adopted and is the law of the state. The other thing that we are planning is a national plan for water management and savings. Greece today spends almost three times more than Spain per acre, water. This increases the cost of cultivation on the one hand and on the other hand, as in Argolida for example, it creates a huge problem in the underground water horizon, we destroy underground watercourses, there is the phenomenon of refractory, the risk of desertification and if we put in and the consequences of climate change, you understand that these phenomena will be intensified in the coming years. On the one hand, we have severe weather effects in short periods and long periods of drought in other periods, which naturally has an adverse effect on agricultural production, which is first and foremost the sector affected, is a prejudicial to weather conditions. From there on, what do we do to help increase added value in agricultural products? Two measures: firstly, a processing plan to enable investment projects to be carried out and to standardise their products. Secondly, improvement plans, so that they can modernise their production, buy machinery for new, spraying, tractors where necessary, irrigation systems. Two billion total expenditure, 1.2 billion European money stuck, frozen for four-and-a-half years, has been dismantled within four months for processing projects before Christmas. The first payments started, the system has been opened, and those who have approved investment programs to enter and can either submit requests for advance payment or requests for payment for investments they have already made and costs they have done. It has opened the measure and they can go complete their investment projects. Many of these also concern the olive-growing sector. The improvement plans shall also complete evaluations. Already in the Attica Region, the evaluations of the improvement plans have been completed. A final table has been drawn and integration is expected in the other regions of Greece. Total expenditure of 1.2 billion, 600 million European money, which will help our farmers modernise, analyse their production and drop production costs. The rest, Mr President, will be discussed in second place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u156	Sure. We'll start again by MP Ilias, Mr. Michael Katrin. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in most of the findings you have made, we cannot disagree. But I really do wonder whether the viewers, and if the Greek producers, who will be able to attend this debate, will be wiser or whether they will gain that the Ministry of Rural Development has already decided to do something specific and effective to support this year's difficult year. Three months ago, as you said, the Minister for Rural Development came out in diremams to say that we saved the tariffs with the United States in relation to olive oil and edible olives and hoped that this would mean much more competitive treatment of Greek olive oil, so much better year. We now see, three months later, that, as long as the weather is over, the situation is getting worse and worse, without there being any concrete plan to address this problem and to make up for lost income. Obviously, the Ministry and the government in question cannot interfere with the free market, but must do promotional extroverts in order to be able to support a national product. You did not answer what I asked you before, with regard to last year, when your predecessor and the previous government said that they sent a request to the European Commission for compensation of EUR 30 million. You did not answer if there was this request, if the previous government had forwarded this request for compensation for last year, and if you are thinking of energising last year's request because of climate change and various mycological conditions and for this year's year's in the areas that this is being identified. Secondly, in relation to the provision of liquidity to producers, who are forced to sell as much - as oil as oil as for both the costs of production and the workers' hands and are unable to store, in order to negotiate better periods of time, better prices. Have you even thought through collaborative schemes and cooperatives to proceed to low-private lending, so in a liquidity supply to producers, so that they too can negotiate their product in better conditions and prices? Thirdly, you said and said my colleague, Mr Kegeroglu, on the agreement between the countries in particular of Africa and the European Union on importing oil for duty-free purposes on the basis of these agreements. Have you considered that all of this at European Union level should now be reviewed and agreed with the other rural development ministers in the countries of the South to better negotiate European olive oil prices and in the countries of the North, but also to prevent imports of olive oil from other countries without duties, without charges, which is making our own oil primarily extremely uncompetitive and which is certainly being moved to farmers? And I want you to tell me in relation to the Agricultural Development Programme 2021-2027, in relation to the part of the processing, in relation to the part of certified and organic farming, olive oil, geographical origin, all these incentives which must be given to producers through cooperative schemes to go to standardisation, marketing and marketing of olive oil if you really have made such decisions and initiatives, which the Greek olive producer will feel today, that the Government is also next to it and supports it in the loss of production and with further controls. And explore this for the import of foreign olive oil that exploit our so-called advantage for duty-free oil in the United States, which may return boomerang. I think - and I appeal from this Step - that you look at this issue in greater detail and give a perspective for next year, so that producers can grow safely and do not run every year just to get the broken ones out of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition "Volumes of the Greeks: the one-way stations of almost two hundred years" organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd General School of Vyrona. The House welcomes you. We wish you many years, good year, good progress. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] This is an excellent report, and those who see us on television and can visit it, definitely visit it, will do well. Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u159	Minister, I have listened very carefully. I have listened to my colleagues, and I think it is not a matter of recycled and the same, to say the same demands my colleagues have made in the Change Movement. I would like to put two more issues to you, which are very important to me. The first important issue is the lack of a national olive oil strategy. We haven't managed all these years to have a national strategy, and that's what it looks like. I am monitoring the data available in the European Union. Portugal was a country traditional in olive cultivation. Until two - three years ago he had about seven and a half thousand tons of production. Now her production has reached ninety thousand. How did that happen? They made some models, became a dense plantation of the olive and its production at the moment has reached ninety thousand tons. This shows that people had a target. This objective must not be at some point and we, as a country, place it and start it, so that we can see what is going to happen in the coming years? Because, as the situation goes, we will be again next year and next year talking about the same problems again. Furthermore, there are some other things that are heard in our villages, in other prefectures, that there are trasts, that there are foreign investors who come to buy the olive trees. We're talking about forty thousand olive trees. They want to buy in the area of Laconia and Messinia. Does this ministry know about it? Has he been aware of whether there are such interests that want to take advantage of our own olive oil? Because it is very easy for Chinese to come, for example, and buy areas either in Argolida, in Laconia or in Messinia and produce olive oil and export it to their own country. It is an issue that we need to see very seriously. You also said earlier about water, about water policy. This policy on water has been heard for the past twenty years. Anavalos, you know very well, is a case that starts since the 1960s. We have arrived in the third decade of 2000 and still do not have water. That's our big deal. And that's why I'm making my agony, and I'm saying some things that need to be done right away. The most important issue is the quality of oil. Over the past few years, we have had a huge problem with the torch. This year I hope you have anticipated the relevant funds, at least not to notice the same phenomena that we had last year and last year. Because some areas had toast, others didn't. This resulted in what? To reduce quality. And the prices must be humiliating. Thank you very much and I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, we are keeping the time. The Minister has analysed a plan. Of course, I was wondering, 'Where have I heard it before, where have I heard it before'? It is the same thing you have said in the programme statements, Minister. But here, we must look at the specific problems and how we are dealing with them directly and, of course, we must also see how a medium or long-term plan is being developed to support the olive-growing sector. Because he's strong, but he doesn't have support. We have time with the time of depreciation and the collective bodies that used to operate on the site and contributed to the support of the producer. We have everything you have said and you accept what we have pointed out to you. But in the economy and many others, of course, it counts the result. We have an issue here, of course, concerning the incomes of producers and the price of olive oil. That is our point, which, as we have seen, is caused by certain causes and we want your answers to address these causes. You cannot tell us what you are going to do with compensation for lost income and for previous years and now. Of course, whether or not Mr Arachovitis submitted the file or not, or whether he was lying to us, or whether it is true we have to know it, so that we know: are the European Union taking advantage of the opportunities? Mr. Katrinis told you twice. I'll bring it back, too. Do we want an answer: did the file finally occur or not? Have you asked or intend to request the use of regulations such as those of de minimis, in order to compensate for other reasons than what ELGA pays? And I come to market issues. You have developed a theory that 'this is the free market, well, children, what to do, does not create prices for the government'. Look. This is not the free market. It's the unconscious market. A free market with rules, such as the Social Democrats, we believe, and we have identified it, with specific institutional principles, is not inconsistent. He's got a huge difference. As far as the free market is concerned, by rules, from the state, the same goes without saying that cartels are not treated as cartels. I will not come to name the companies, but, if you want to do so with a new written question, we will tell you that the phenomena that lead and keep prices low, both at European and national level, have to do with harmonised practices at both levels. That's proud. We therefore ask for your order or your question to be addressed to the Competition Committee and to the other. The Competition Committee alone with the information that will officially go from you that prices are being kept low - very low in relation to previous years, to unacceptable low levels - and for a long time, it has been in the process of monitoring. We don't need to tell her that you know that company with the same company. It is the situation on the market, which is enough to justify the institutional role of the Competition Committee in order to move forward. There is a need, of course, for other things at European level. As far as laboratory tests are concerned, you must do so, especially this year. And be careful. The International Olive Council took out a communication and said that Greece has no quantities of these qualities this year. I do not know whether this was real or whether it was too much what the International Olive Council did. He said, therefore, that Greece has these quantities available. It cannot be found with this quality, with huge quantities over the next period. Producers of strawberry, without money in the pocket and some have fruited the greatness of the title "Greek olive oil" by means of the agreement if you want, if it works, I do not know at which level it has worked, negatively for the other countries. So here we want your mobility and your initiative for the Competition Committees, European and national, for laboratory checks and more. Look. The previous government also had the failure of the murder program, for which there is a continuity, and the state is responsible for the producers, because this is the collective body that took over the murder. I didn't take care of it, the state has taken care of it. He's taking the contributions from the producers and making the tacosy. If he doesn't do his job well, the state is responsible. Of course, we do not need to get to the point where we can get producers to bring actions to the Ministry of Rural Development in the Greek state and request compensation. You need to see it in advance. You inherited it, yes. The people were operating in such a way that they didn't ultimately care and it seems that you had this as an update, the first legislative initiative by the Ministry of Rural Development was to change the system of tampering. I come to something else more serious they did. They signed a great increase in duty-free quantities from third countries. There is, in other words, the possibility of very large quantities of duty-free goods coming from Tunisia and then, once the relevant involvements have been made - and the legal, there are all the legal, all those listed, or as provided for in the regulations - that this should be exported as Greek to the United States, plus the suspicions of Spanish and Spanish. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I close by saying that we want answers to all this. Furthermore, because it cannot now be raised in the European Union to return and reduce these quantities - it would be utopian to ask - what Greece must put is the timing of imports. Imports, for example, will not be allowed until June, when there are several Greek quantities - and not only Greek, but Italian, Spanish, general, European oil, when available - will be allowed. Why would they come? This can be done by timing. Yes, we agreed for seventy thousand tonnes, for 100 thousand tonnes, I do not know how much they have agreed, but since July, from August onwards in a regulatory way. So the free market wants rules so that it doesn't become unconscious. And these rules no one else puts them but the state and the European Union which also has European regulations to support the product. He's got a threshold price. It may now be on another level because of low prices, but there are some mechanisms.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u162	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. So, as a logic of minimum protection, there is in the free economy. Don't get into the logic of the unconscious economy and don't get your hands up easily. Don't surrender! You have weapons, such as the Competition Committee, laboratory controls, European Union regulations. Activate them now. You can support the farmers, the Greek oil producers who have lost income for many years, but this year they have suffered enormous damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much. I knew something, and I pointed out three times! Mr Konstantinos Skrekas has the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u165	Very quickly, Mr President. First of all, as far as the torch is concerned and the damage they had last year and this year in Crete - you know that very well, Mr Kegeroglu - no one raises their hands, no one is delivered. We have barely lifted our sleeves and worked, which had not been done for four and a half years in this country. Of course, because you are talking about cartel, you are talking about harmonised practices, you are talking about pathogens of previous years, you have also been part of previous governments. And since you say there are, why have you not made these complaints or, as you say, did not send these requests to the Competition Committee in the previous years? We don't want if there's a cartel, it keeps working. We have to break it now. If you have complaints, please very much now, after this debate, I expect you to bring the complaints to my office tomorrow, and we will immediately initiate a procedure under the law and legislation of Greece. Of course we must not leave the weak Greek farmers in the sharks who see their production not to be sold at satisfactory prices, and they cannot continue to produce products. But we're a long way from this. We're exactly the opposite. We want to support the Greek farmer to continue, stay in his fields, stay in our villages, stay in the countryside to continue and live his family there and contribute to the national economy and contribute to national defence. How? Through ensuring food security, which is also a part of national sovereignty, namely the adequacy of food products in a country. What have we done and what has the Minister of Makis Voridis done with regard to the damage caused to Crete this year? He has set up a scientific group, head of which is the professor of the Agricultural University of Athens - you all know - to conduct a study in detail, scientifically, to determine the effects of climate change on the damage suffered by producers. And so that we can implement and mobilise Article 220 of European Regulation 1308, so that we can support Greek farmers. A three-page sketch report, as always, had been sent by the prior administration of the Ministry - the Minister you mentioned, Mr Arachovitis - to the European Commission without any documentation. And he got an answer from the Commissioner to look for money from the state budget. That mocking's over, though. And we cannot continue to mock Greek farmers. We must at last be substantial, be effective, take into account the problems and give a solution. That's what we're gonna do. No one has lifted their hands, exactly the opposite. As far as storage is concerned, I need to explain what storage means. It means giving an incentive or compensation, an amount of EUR 50 per tonne, so that the person concerned can keep, if possible, in tanks for six months the product, the oil, the ready-to-sale product, so that he can sell it after a period of time, as he says, six months expects to have a better price. We're looking into it. So far, I have to say that no mass institutional body has made us an official request. Nevertheless, the leadership of the Ministry, Macys Vorides, before this matter is raised, is considered and examined, because we are considering all the tools available to us as a state. We can't set prices. We cannot put duties on imported products. We cannot do more than European regulations impose, but we are looking at all the weapons at our disposal. One of these weapons is storage. There are concerns. We're talking about it. We're looking to see if it's gonna be effective. If Greece, which is a small proportion of European and world production - I mean neighbouring countries - a few thousand tonnes, will the price change? Let's see. If it's effective, we'll do it. Is the price of olive oil even worse after six months? We expect it to be better and they all hope so. Who can ensure that the price will be better when Spain has not yet started to have the products, has it not given prices? And we are talking about a million thousand tonnes, which are going to be placed on the market in a market less than that, because it seems that at least so far is not possible to export to the other countries on the other side of the Atlantic. So all this olive oil must be on the small market, with the exception of the United States, for Spain to be promoted. So what's going on? More supply to a smaller demand. These are the problems we face. You understand, I'm sure. We all want to solve the problem. Is it solved overnight? Oh, no. We are looking at all the tools we have in order to be able to alleviate and support farmers. But it takes a lot more, because all this time we're talking about what? We are talking about the price of the bulk oil. This whole conversation we've been having for half an hour is about the price of bulk. We need to start talking about the price of the standard, so how to sell, how to standardise and how the consumer, to whom the standard product will be addressed, will give the above money to have a better quality product: pure virgin olive oil. This work can't be done in six months, but it's now planned to be done at some point. Only 30% said you said that it was sold as a standard, 70% sold as bulk. This has to change. How can we deal with incoming competition? We also want to be able to sell our own products without duties in third countries. So we cannot want to sell duty free, for example in China, in large markets and, on the other hand, put barriers and duties on other products when they want to import and sell in Europe. We must ensure within the European area that we are talking about the same products, so higher-class quality characteristics, as you have said quite rightly. There are these in Greece. Tracing, ensuring, communicating these quality characteristics. Is it organized? Oh, no. It's done by some. It's getting fragmented. We want to organize it. That's why we want the gathering. What do we mean by concentration? One and a hundred olive trees cannot be left alone with a thousand olive trees. What do you say? Cooperatives and cooperatives of cooperatives. That's the only way it's gonna happen. If it is not possible for our farmers to cooperate, they will never acquire the critical mass, the volume, so that they can achieve the added value. That's why we bring in a new law on cooperatives. It is already in the consultation, which is being completed and in a few days' time we are bringing new law on cooperatives so that we can have a cleaner legislative framework so that it can feel security that he is involved in cooperatives and can thus become more competitive. It's a big deal to do. We have an open dialogue with everyone. We invite you, too, to present your proposals and, together, to sit down, because I think we all care. I don't think any representative of the nation care less than the other. We all care about who? For those citizens who have sent us here waiting for something from us. We invite you. We have an open dialogue. You saw what happened to the interprofessional feta. We managed to put them all together. There are inter-professionals. We want to strengthen them, strengthen the producer organisations, cooperate with producers, strengthen the cooperation of the parties, find a strategic plan for olive oil, the main national product, so that it does not change every time the government changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, our question was about producer price.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Kegeroglu, you know you don't have the floor. Don't worry about me, because I appreciate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u169	Mr President, our question was about producer price. Producers are interested in us. You talked about the price of the trader. It's a different matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u170	No, this is about the producer who standardizes, not the one who sells bulk... (not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u171	It's 2,20 the price of olive oil and you're not interested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Colleague, we're saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Kegeroglu, you can say it privately. He already told you that you can tell them tomorrow morning at the office. The second question under number 354/8-1-2020 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Larissa Movement of Change, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "The Ministry of Justice "deadens" the case of Domenico Holocaust" is not discussed, after consultation of the Minister and MP. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-16-S1-commons.u174	With the consent of this House at 12.51 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 17 January 2020 at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and legislative debate, and b) legislative work, on the agenda that has been distributed to you.
