ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[Due to the large volume of text the above finding is found in a PDF format file at the following e-mail address:]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Centre of Culture and Creation Acropolis and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Giannis Loverdos, I will make four communications to this House. All four announcements are from 16-7-2020. The Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Centre of Culture and Creation Acropolis and other provisions". The Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping and Island Policy, Tourism, State, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 15-7-2020: ‘Simply a framework for economic activities of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. The Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination on the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos in the performance of his duties," submitted on 15 July 2020 its findings to the President of Parliament, which is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and which reads as follows: http://www.hellenicparliament.gr/UserFiles/510129c4-d278-40e7-8009-e77fc230adef/ORG_pagenumber.pdf) Ladies and gentlemen, at this point will the electronic record system be opened and I would ask the second rapporteur, that is to say, until the end of the speech by Mrs Christidou, the SYRIZA rapporteur, to sign up. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis - Michael Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are discussing a bill on culture in our country. There is a great contradiction here, I would say, between the views of counter-population and ours. From an ideological point of view, it's not bad. You have a different perception of things. We have another vision for culture and you have another vision. It is acceptable, in democracy we live, that the views are free and that everyone should be presenting them. We believe that culture is not dictated by the government, by the state or by the Ministry of Culture of course. I personally, without wishing to touch on Mrs Méndonis - not to deprive her of her work - would not even like there to be a Ministry of Culture, if we were to go to that level of operation of the artistic and cultural space, because he must be independent of any governmental activity. The artist and creator are by the nature of the anti-determinationist. It cannot be reconciled with norms, and that is why, in my opinion, there is no and there should be no military art, as I said yesterday in the committee. The great creators, the great artists live, because that's what comes out of them. Whatever the state tells them, whatever the government tells them, Picasso did not make him any Ministry of Culture, Kazantzakis did not make him any Ministry of Culture, so did Hatzidaki, Theodorakis, Tsarouchi and all the great Greek and foreign artists, who are honoured and well honoured until now. We also have a different approach with regard to what the Left says - I remember from my youth - marketing art or sport. But there must be fate too. The great artist is recognized by society. Society rewards him and rewards him financially for it. I do not understand why this view of alleged commercialisation exists. That makes sense. Theodorakis wrote amazing music. This music was purchased by the citizens of the world, and Theodorakis made it, and well earned a lot of money. So too many artists coming from the Left. Why, is it bad for someone to get rich in his creative and artistic work? On the contrary, I would say, it is because it is popular. The popular artist must be rewarded, but not by the state, and that is our great difference. We want it to be rewarded by the public, by the people who recognise the quality of their work, not by the state. We do not want privileged artists, we do not want to be fed by public Korean artists. And to a certain extent, I would say to a large extent, is the result of this draft legislation which we are debating today in this House. And I have to agree with Mr Philis's view yesterday that we need to be more in plenary and not so few of us today, because the House has to stand up to the situation. I recognize it. When I hear something right from the side of the counterpopulation, I'll say it. I'm coming to the bill. I heard the Minority rapporteur at the inaugural meeting of committees trying to identify her and her party as pluralists. Her right, of course, to say her opinion, I fully respect her and neither distort her words, as she accused me yesterday. I have no purpose like that. On the contrary, I respect every elected Member in this House. It doesn't matter what you say you are, but what you are and especially what you do. This is what people see in a democracy. You'll allow me to start a little backwards. On the basis of the provisions of the second part of the draft law on the establishment of an independent public relations and a formality department at the Ministry, our SYRIZA colleague accused us of setting up a grouper. It's gonna be a good word, especially from SYRIZA, not to say it, not to shops or to party. It's good to avoid such words because the hanged man's house never speaks of rope. You know, it's really funny to be blamed by Census Anti-Civilization, especially after the last revelations, that we're setting up a gangster. I certainly understand that in some cases the best defense is the attack, but to do so, you must have the weapons. And in this case, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you do not have them. If you want to talk about the paragagon, I would remind you - if you have forgotten - the case of the Greek Space Agency, the Minister of the Dear Mr. Nikos Papapas, when you went out on resignation of Mr. Krimizis, an internationally recognized scientist, due to the authoritarian interventions of the then Secretary-General of the Ministry, which had nothing to do with the subject of the organization. Of course Mr Krimizis was neither a party of the New Democracy nor a single party. Nor can I comment on the zeal with which the Minority rapporteur has served to its opposition rhetoric, but has been lured to such an extent that it can spread mistakes. So, for example, Mrs Christidou, in protesting about the content of the bill in her opening speech in committee, argued that last year's bill, which has not been submitted - as much you have not been able to do, as you claim - would offer support, infrastructure, technological assistance and funding to artists, while in his enthusiasm there would be open rehearsals, seminars, participatory meetings, exhibitions, performances, conferences, festivals. Exactly, that is, the same things that are included in our bill. It was enough to read the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, the one invoked by your comrades to claim that the public interest is allegedly harmed. But I understand you. Because the New Democracy brings it to the vote, of course it is to try to react on what the government brings to the vote. You know, there are a lot of opportunities to counteract, on too many major issues. In this particular bill I see little such opportunities and, indeed, I regret that you speak so strongly against this bill. Opposition to the opposition must not be carried out, nor do I intend to oppose opposition to opposition. What's the point? The essence is that this bill comes literally at the right time, immediately, i.e. after the great economic blow of the artists, culture, creation due to the health crisis, to provide as far as possible the necessary conditions for its recovery. It is, in fact, the part concerning "AKROPOL" a JEP for the area of culture and artistic creation. There is nothing dark that is concealed, nor is there any difference in interests. It is simply and clearly a bill that aspires to make the lives of all those involved in productive, artistic, cultural creation easier, especially now, after the blow. The aim is to develop artistic and cultural creation in which, as I said before, all I said is to organize actions, events, exhibitions, the implementation of educational programmes, the award of scholarships, the hospitality of artists, participation in international festivals, financing the production of artistic works, the establishment and operation of an information node for members of the cultural sector, etc. We do not want, while there are funds that can be exploited, cultural creators fall because they do not have time, knowledge and skills, because they have other skills and skills, to approach programmes, to file files and to compile technical bulletins to claim them. This will be done by "Acropolis". It will help the artistic and creative world to get the resources that exist. Apart from its establishment, it gives a solution to the problem of the development of the former “ACROPOLE PALACE” hotel, which is owned by the Ministry of Culture and which is characterized as an art project. And this must be exploited as a work of art. The Left may have seen ACROPOL as a self-managed dock. Mrs Christidou will tell me again that I am twisting her words. I don't twist them. That's the perception of what I heard him say. He said "hidden osmosis of artists" and other very nice, as words but without any content. We do not want to make ACROPOL a self-managed new "BOX" or "EMBROS" with state money in addition. We're not that logic. At the difficult times we are in, we want, as a government, to give real help to the cultural sector. And this cannot be done by leaving him to his fate or by exercising a cultural policy by seizing public buildings from various so-called 'artificial groups'. An organisation and a coordinate way of strengthening all those involved in this area is needed. This is what this bill is about to do, which will be passed by the Greek Parliament this evening. The grid of activities covered by "AKROPOL" relates to arts, music, visual arts, photography, traditional arts, books, audiovisual and interactive media, design and so on. and benefit, as are natural, legal or natural persons, regardless of their form, who are engaged in the production, creation and distribution of the above goods and services. So you will allow me to continue with Article 20, which has raised most opposition reactions on the part of the opposition. I have to point out first of all that it does not begin with the amendment of the provisions on reproduction and dissemination to the public of illustrations and copies of monuments, but also the conditions for visiting and granting archaeological and other associated sites. So let me remind my dear colleagues in the Officerial Representation that in the relatively recent past we had become common to the well-known bureaucratic obstacles raised by the public administration in cases of filming ancient monuments and archaeological sites. The Ministry, recognizing the problem, introduced the relevant regulations of Article 20, for which the Minister responsible said so to the committee, and I suppose he will also say so in plenary - can identify you more fully than I do. For my part, however, I would like to point out that the 2018 incident, which I personally - and I think most of the honourable citizens - offended me as to whether or not to be the long shot of the 'Small drummer', the 'BBBC' television series at the Temple of Poseidon in Sounion, and the extremities that followed have merely highlighted this serious problem. However, it cannot be ruled out that two years have passed since this incident. In 2016, again, we had another similar event, again with SYRIZA governments, with the "BBC" series "The Night Manager", starring Hugh Laurie - if you were to see "House MD". What did the government then do to resolve this problem? Answer: nothing. Nothing. Because yesterday Mr. Squarcialos told me that this was provided for by the laws of the New Democracy. Let me take it. There was a bad thing about these laws. But now don't we have to change it? Should we not give this opportunity, as in all the civilised countries in the world? There is also a lot of talk of the non-invitation by the Commission of the Hellenic Association of Archaeologists. And what we did not hear from the Qualified Opposition, that they were not called because they were feared by the Minister, that they were amazed that they had an opposing view on the disputed provisions on the licensing of illustrations and copies of monuments. The truth is that they could send their views in a memorandum, which they did not send from what I know and from what the chairman of the committee said. SYRIZA claimed falsely, distorting - I will not say "stopping", but rather because he did not understand it enough - the spirit of the arrangements that the loss of revenue for the public and unauthorised and unauthorised commercial use of copies and monuments even for malicious use is institutionalised. It has even been argued that the proposed provisions allow companies to print in trash bags with the Parthenon or even with the House Hall. Mrs. Mendoni in yesterday's speech has shown you that this is not the case. In order to return to the seriousness that our role here, in this House, all of us, would like to point out here, as well, a deliberate distortion that is being made and is intended to be disoriented from the essence of the proposed arrangements. In particular, with the current status of any citizen drawing a monument, he must obtain permission from the Minister, from each Minister, and proof of payment of a fee. And why? Because his painting is a monumental imaging and is subject to the layout. If he doesn't have them, typically at least, he can't legally draw the monument. If he does, he's an outlaw. The same illegal is the simple visitor of the archaeological site that photographs him or videos him with his phone. It may not happen in practice, but that's what the law says. As you can see, these cannot continue. That is why we have taken relevant initiatives with the introduction of the provisions of Article 20. The opposition, on the other hand, swept away from its opposition ostrich once again discovered darkly hidden interests of individuals hiding behind the article at issue. In fact, he did not hesitate to attack my dear old friend Nikos, who was a friend of mine, Mr. Philis, who was a member of the Minister on a personal level, leaving her implying her honesty and integrity. Even that we will give the Parthenon to 'COCA-COLA' we have heard. The other provisions of this draft law contain very important regulations which have almost gone unnoticed. In the short term - I will not take advantage of time, Mr President - to make a very brief presentation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The free concession for 20 years of Fix Building at the National Museum of Contemporary Art solves the question of its preservation over time. Especially this very important arrangement has gone almost out of business, while it gives a solution to a long-standing problem of the museum. I think it deserved better treatment. For operators in the theatre and cinema sectors after the great financial damage caused by COVID -19, a self-just prolongation of the leases of those places is foreseen by Article 19, without an increase in the rent up to 30 September 2021. SYRIZA, of course, by making an easy opposition outweighs, asking for less rents, as if this could be solved by a ministerial decision. It is also a problem that has arisen as a result of cancellations or deferrals due to the pandemic, in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 16. This article enables the organiser to offer the customer an equivalent credit note by 30 September 2021. The provision of Article 24, now, for the setting-up of an administrative director's post to a legal person of private law with an artistic director, was a request from the artistic directors themselves. I do not understand why he has so much reaction from the opposition. The artistic directors rightly want to remain distracted in their physical competence, free of all sorts of administrative burdens. So the objections of counterpopulation are unsatisfactory...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Loverdo, please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President. Inside this bill, other provisions are contained in the existing legislation for the Greek Film Center, the Thessaloniki Film Festival and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not seek to find ghosts, conspiracy and dark spots where they do not exist. ACROOPOL has one single purpose. Make the life of cultural creators a little better, a little easier. This, along with the other provisions of the second part of the bill, is a coordinated effort to upgrade the cultural sector and artistic creation in a way that can only have positive results for our country. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u6	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Christidou Rallia, is called in Step. Please keep the time - this is to all the speakers - in view of the fact that the day is very assured. There are successive committees and in the Conference of Presidents the choice of Vice-President of the Supreme Court and many will be missed. Just keep the time, without that, of course, meaning that the position of the rapporteurs will not be exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the New Democracy chooses its rapporteur, unfortunately, to be out of the question. And today out of the question. And today, most of the time has been consumed to opposition to major opposition. If I personally assume that I can't read, you, Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy, certainly can't hear. I'm sure your ears don't listen well. You continue today to insist on fantasies, to stick to your ideas. And finally, we are amazed and amazed, and we wonder if you are so attracted to the anarchist autonomous space that you are barely putting it in the conversation. It's impressive, really! Do you have any issues with this, some repellent? And yesterday and the day before and the day before. As much as you're trying to disorientate the world, you're not gonna make it. With the distortion, with the irony, with the system "I oppose the opposition to opposition", with the staff insults you will not hide the substance of the bill. I should like to end by saying that I am sorry to have done so, and I am addressing the SYRIZA Members and the other opposition parties. The fact that the rapporteur of the New Democracy thinks that it would be preferable within the framework of liberalism that he supports - and he wants to convince us with the effect that he is liberal - that there is not even a Ministry of Culture that we think that is indicative. I'm closing the parentheses, then. Thank you very much for giving us this opportunity to say a few things and we will now actually get into it. And I've only wasted two minutes and eleven seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to plenary today to discuss a bill entitled 'Centre for Culture and Creation' and other provisions', and it should be called 'Centre for Commercial Promotion of Culture' and 'Centre for Culture' and other provisions', where in the other provisions, of course, some very serious articles are included, which have never really been put into public consultation and which we really have very serious objections to. I shall begin with the first half of the draft law on 'Acropolis'. The fact is that you have brought Parliament a draft law that is completely different from the draft prepared by the SYRIZA Government. Yes, it is! But what points? And I won't speak with fantasies now, I'll talk with facts. The importance and interest of the government's proposal for the ruling party was shown at the four meetings of the committee. Of the twenty-eight New Democracy Members who are part of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, not one single speaker has spoken but the rapporteur, of course. And why are they doing this? What for? It is so miserable and so small your plan for "ACROPOL", which is not offered for defending speeches or, of course, for political dialogue. When we as SYRIZA in the spring of 2019 submitted our plan to make use of this wonderful building on Patisia 51, the ownership of the Ministry of Culture, which has already been characterized as an art project since 1991, when we designed and submitted to Parliament our own project, we proposed a center, a hospitable space with use infrastructure for artists, a public node to support modern independent artistic production without discrimination, with a view to strengthening the new voices, a meeting point of young commons, innovation and experimentation. ACROPOL was intended for SYRIZA as a public body, as an adjunct to a field where its conditions today - and it is important to hear this - are formed on the one hand by the businessmen of art and on the other hand by the private large cultural institutions. I wonder - and it is good to ask you and the people who see us and listen to us: do we not need, in other words, as a place from such public intervention? Do we not need public intervention that is not protective, guiding, but will be truly liberating, an intervention that will allow a thousand flowers to bloom, on the reverse of the logic that seeks to cultivate only certain artistic products and by-products that are harmless and obedient? That's what we visioned. What are you bringing us? After announcing the unification of "ACROPOL" with the Archaeological Museum and the sites of the Polytechnological School, an announcement that you have been rushing to collect, when you saw a celebration that is contrary to articles of the Constitution, after announcing works of underground unification "ACROPOL" and archaeological projects that no cultural strategy reveals - apart from anonymous impression - and other projects that, because of costs, will be left on paper again, since you have said and expended again on "ACROPOL", you are bringing us a draft law that is visible to transform artists into grocery stores. I would like to say, however, that grocers, who are particularly sympathetic and as a professional group, are doing a completely different kind of job. Who's that? They calculate the products they will place on their shelves, first and foremost on the profit. This is not the case with artists. Creators first deal with their art - first to express their own concerns, but also their social pulse, even when they do not forget him. Part of their souls, that's what artists share. They don't care in first time whether they sell or not. They're interested first to produce and then that's where to get, in some ears, in some eyes, in some souls. The phrase 'all the great creators' has been said several times by New Democracy. And the great creators and the smaller creators, starting with the personal experience, touch the collective project. What do you say to these artists? What do you say to these people with your bill? You say: “Okay, very nice all about art. Come on, let's train you. Come on, let's tell you how to sell your product to the public. Let's show you how to find sponsors and how to pierce the NRP programs." This approach shows firstly ignorance of the artistic field. It is a source of light years from the true needs of artists. It does not take into account the fact that there are already university departments, from which young people and young specialists are graduated from what you are planning to teach them through seminars, envying Mr Brutsis' achievements with the age skeletons, etc. in the middle of a pandemic. At the same time, of course, dealing with you demonstrates that there is a limit of the relationship with culture. The Minister told us in her last speech. He spoke about jobs, about international reports of economic consequences from the developed cultural market and saying all of this, very simply proved that he does not realize that everything he said is quite right, but it is not the first issue. It's not the point. What he said is secondary consequences that presuppose the raw material. And the primary material of culture is the people who need space and time to be dedicated, experimented, deepened in their art and not space and time to learn what the market wants. The point is that everyone has access to the production of cultural work, to the production of artistic creation. That's the point. That's where we have to give it a base. The rest will come later. You're the one who reverses the priority. And who will benefit? Of course, those who have resolved this will benefit, ladies and gentlemen. They don't need to. They have resolved this in terms of production. They'll go further. Let me not forget that all the bodies that submitted their views to the Committee on Educational Affairs were all against the bill! They almost all explained that another thing is the artist and another thing is the manager of art. Everyone also asked experts and mainly institutions that facilitate the contact of creators and audiences, explaining very simply that this is what they need rather than converting the intellectual creator to self-manager! Furthermore, the fact that the Board of Directors and the Minister appointed by the Board of Directors is not even required to have anything to do with either art or culture is in some way one of the reasons for this bill, which is the logic of the market alone. These are articles which only aim at this ambiguity of leadership is to have the hands of the leadership squeeze, so that they can place anyone they want - in fact, any friend they want - as they do everywhere, ladies and gentlemen, this one year of the governance of the New Democracy and not just in culture. The "AKROPOL" bill is the logical consequence of a policy that we have seen unfolding the Ministry over the last time, especially during the pandemic. After the complete indifference for the artists, who had to come out dynamically, came to the Ministry, announced measures that were inadequate in both institutional and economic terms, as they involved a few artists, once again, as well as subsidies that were opaque without criteria, without any invitation of interest, in order to break down and sprinkle the division between funded and non-funded. Again the same pattern, again social automation, one group against the other. Same play. We're seeing the same play again. You try to impose the doctrine "be quiet, be quiet to be included in the favored". We are neither forgetting the Ministry's attitude to Mr Kronakis nor the attitude towards Mr Delivoria nor, of course, the attitude to Mr Xarchakos, whom you do not call him under any circumstances. ACROOPOL is therefore the logical follow-up to all these previous policies. But we have to talk - and we will talk and we will be able to talk - about the second part of the draft law. We could talk about things, about the newly established Department of customs, for example, which is subject to and is directly managed by the Minister, having all the responsibilities, operating not rationalizing, as the Minister claimed, but centrally. And rationalization would indeed be an element of liberalism, which you so defend. But authoritarianism is not an element of liberalism, it is of realism. And I insist on that. Do not try to convince us about things that appear and appear in the world that do not necessarily understand the differences. There has been a centralization of the Ministry's policy in relation to its employees throughout the last year. Concentrating and authoritarian. What to report first? The removal from the "good morning" of the Acropolis sergeant and his replacement by a member of the AACC? The change of composition in the C.D.S.? The expedition of the Deputy, lacking Chief, of the Antiquities Department of Thessaloniki, because he dared to express another opinion on the ancients at Venizelos Station? The transfer of the director to another address without justification in breach of the law, a case for which an appeal has already been made to the administrative courts? The pause of the head of TYPUS? The list is not complete, ladies and gentlemen. In all this, the creation of a new section directly by the Minister is unfortunately a reasonable follow-up. I must refer to Article 24. It provides for the setting-up of an administrative management position for the persons supervised by the Ministry. This is an article - because you are in a hurry - to which we are not opposed, but on the contrary we could vote in favour. However, ladies and gentlemen, when the position and procedures for selecting an economic director to the persons supervised by the Ministry are referred to ministerial decisions, i.e. decisions outside parliamentary control, we cannot consent. I deliberately left to the end the unacceptable Articles 20 and 25, which are an open-ended scandal, a smuggling of public funds, which we still recognise - and we insist - and the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, which states that there will be a possible loss, the amount of which cannot be calculated. It sought the Ministry, with the help of the Chairman of the Committee on Forumsical Affairs, not to hear the opinion of the experts on these articles. Despite our persistent requests, the call of the Association of Greek Archaeologists was hampered at the hearing in committee. In fact, once again with the well-known system of the Stepma modelling system, two proposals appeared selectively, three proposals from the Association of Greek Archaeologists, which had been formulated two years ago. I shall therefore read to you three words, because contrary to what the Minister is accusing us of, we know and understand what we are reading. I therefore read to you what the Scientific Trade Union Association of the Ministry of Culture says: "With the proposed Article 20 there are substantial changes in Article 46 of the Archaeological Law, Law 3028/2002, which, according to the report of the State General Accounting Office accompanying this bill, will result in a reduction in the revenues of the EDF. Article 46 of the Archaeological Law, as it stands to date, preserves both the public's revenues from reproductions or representations of monuments or findings for direct or indirect commercial purposes and ensures exemption from corresponding fees for artistic creation, scientific imaging and educational material as well as non-profit events.’
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u8	Finish, my colleague, please. You've been in the seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u9	Yes, Mr President, I will need a minute. "Article 46, as it stands, provides for authorizing provisions to regulate the details of these matters and if the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture has diagnosed malfunctions or delays in these matters, he claims, could adopt new ministerial decisions to regulate them. Instead of doing so, political leadership brings about an amendment of the law that leaves room for circumventing licensing and payment of fees. In addition, it replaces the existing authorisation “for the production, reproduction and dissemination of the public in any way and means...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, am I not entitled to a dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u12	But you've been in eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u14	Fifteen minutes is the top.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u15	A little tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u16	Excuse me. Show some tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u17	I understand, but we will limit the time to the MPs at six minutes with a tolerance. There's no other way. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u18	It would have been over now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u19	But, as you know, we're not interrupting anyone. Just shorten them up. The content is beneficial.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, the timer is running.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u21	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u22	"Instead of doing so, therefore, the political leadership brings about an amendment of the law that opens room for circumvention of licensing and payment of fees. The proposed provision replaces the current concept ‘for a direct or indirect economic or commercial purpose’ in the very restrictive meaning ‘for profit’. In addition, it replaces the existing licence ‘for reproduction and dissemination to the public in any way and means, including copy and image communication technologies’ by the very restrictive proposed provision ‘Memory imaging’ means a faithful capture of the existing image of the monument as a whole or in part’. "This leaves a wide range of monuments, such as 3D representations or illustrations, increased reality creations and other technologies, without permission from the Ministry of Culture. It also leaves it open to an undertaking to be able to argue that its actions are not profitable, on the grounds that it uses a non-faithful monumental display and also to take promotional actions, by linking its name or products to archaeological monuments or findings without being checked, but without paying fees for this case.’ They continue: ‘Unfortunately, fundamental rights of the public are being circumvented in the draft legislation under consideration for the benefit of private interests, as a restrictive interpretation is applied to the term ‘minorities’. They continue: ‘Direct or indirect commercial purpose shall be replaced by ‘for profit’. That is to say, it limits further all the monuments for which licence and fee are required, as anyone can claim by means of a monumental display that it does so not for profit, but for educational purposes.’ I shall close, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - with something I shall be tabling in the Minutes. It's an image of 1992, this one here. I also want to submit to the minutes and the memorandum from the Association of Greek Archaeologists and the Single Association of Officials. [[At this point the Member, Mr Rallia Christidou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The latest picture, which I have tabled, is an image of 1992 on the government of Constantine Mitsotakis. It is an ad at that time, a very well-known multinational soft drink brand, in which the Parthenon columns have been replaced by bottles of that soft drink. That ad then, as you may recall, was withdrawn after a huge squirrel. With the archaeological law, as was the case to this day, such advertising very simply could not exist. However, with the draft law that comes here today from the Ministry, such advertising will be entirely legal. It will neither need nor be prevented, since the monument will not be accurately depicted, but its imagery will be limited and tempted. Such practices were in her mind, possibly, the Minister and the Ministry, when, by misleading this House, she also spoke to us in committee about school calendars with pictures of Parthenon and photographs of tourists in Sounio. I am addressing the Members of the Com mittee of Inquiry, mainly and I wonder how it is possible to accept this legacy, which belongs to everyone and everyone, free of charge, which they will not even ask for, which has so far been allowed to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what you will answer tomorrow to those who love and respect the history and monuments of this place really, when they ask you how you voted for such a shameful arrangement. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u23	With the permission of the special speakers, Mr Constantopoulos, and because he has a committee to which Mr Gregoriadis must go and a few Members must lead? Is that you? Mr. Gregoriadis, could you speak after Mr. Constantopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u24	No problem, Mr President. I have no problem, even if I am given the floor at only twelve o'clock. That's my request. We've got more than an hour till then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u25	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u26	I asked to precede the Greek Solution, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u27	Good. Mr. Constantopoulos has a committee, so right after...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Delis, before you can Mr. Gregoriadis precede, why does he have to go to a committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u30	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u31	Good. Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u32	I'm gonna use my dentistry now. At least the same time as your colleague. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Culture: 'Centre of Culture and Creation'. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is composed of two parts. Part I concerns the establishment of an entity, "Acropolis Across", which will be supervised by the Ministry of Culture and which will have administrative and financial autonomy. Part II deals with arrangements on the events that were postponed due to the koroni pandemic, by posting workers, with the operation of the Museum of Contemporary Art at the Fix building and other important issues such as licensing for the production and reproduction of illustrations and copies of monuments, as well as the setting up of an autonomous public relations and customisation of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. First, I would like to mention, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that the use of Acropolis is imperative and is a positive step. I'd say he's already late. The creative and cultural sector is still immature and we see this every day both at national and at European level and while there are increased profitability opportunities, it remains inextricably developed due to the absence of a holistic national strategy. And since the committee responsible discussed the bill has already seen an ideological controversy between SYRIZA and the New Democracy, I would like to say in view of the plenary that for us, the Change Movement, which we are working hard to keep democratic extradition up and continue the creative work of PASOK, culture is a public social asset. At the same time, however, the economic sector that is formed around it can be a key, if not a central pillar of the development of our national economy. That is why we consider, Minister, that the use of ACROPOL PALAS, the former flagship hotel on Patisia street, and its conversion into a centre of culture and creation is an important exercise, but it must be done on terms. What terms? Transparency and clarity everywhere, as well as objectivity. Ladies and gentlemen, his property "ACROPOL PALAS" has been owned by the Ministry of Culture and has been classified as an art project since 1991. It is located in the center of Athens, next to the National Archaeological Museum, next to the Polytechnic Museum and can incorporate - I would say - an over-local natural digital reference point for both creators and producers. So let us not spread to disastrous small-party interests and, in particular, to issues relating to culture. Ladies and gentlemen, after a ten-year economic crisis, and in the uncertain reality we are living, because of the pandemic, at least within Parliament, all the forces to exert creative, fruitful and programmatic opposition. Then we're also useful. And not opposition to the opposition! This requires, as I have said before, political culture and, in particular, culture. Madam Minister, as I have said in committees, this important and great project is the 'Acropolis'. However, the description of the objectives of the new body in the bill is one of its weak points - and this should be kept - for which other colleagues have criticised and also by the bodies. We understand, Minister, that the creation of new bodies may serve creative ambiguity. But at the present juncture with the pandemic being dramatically affected by the cultural sector, there is a need for more clarity. Also, there are examples of the past that began with majestic plans and on the way they did not fail miserably. Here I would remind you of the Vulgarakis National Theatre and Dance Centre, which ultimately created huge operating expenses which have been deprived of resources from modern culture, without, of course, offering the slightest and, of course, not giving responsibilities to date. As far as the management bodies of the institution are concerned, Minister, we have also proposed to the committee the participation of a representative of the workers in the board of directors. You said you would accept our proposal. If that is the case, we find it positive. A guarantee must also be made as regards the appointment of members of the Board of Directors. For, ladies and gentlemen, their definition is laid down by a decision of the Minister, the Minister concerned. But that is problematic because it does not guarantee objectivity and does not guarantee dignity. I mean, it reminds me of some other times with the blue interviews. Another weakness is identified in the unclear description of resource extraction. Report, Minister, vaguely general accusations. The special report mentions an annual cost of EUR 547 000. An analysis shall be made of the amounts intended for regular operating expenses, the remuneration of the Director, the salaries of staff, legal advisers and the remuneration of the auditors. In any case, with regard to annual expenditure on the organisation of events, actions, etc., you need to set a maximum limit, Minister. We told you in committees too. We understand that it depends on real events, but the maximum limit could work as a safety net for the proper management of public money. To sum up, I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that the broad range of resources and revenue proves a lack of a specific strategy. Because, Minister, it is not a question of creating another body without clear powers, without clear funding, without clear objectives, just to create it. Let us avoid mistakes of the past. It is important that this body operates for the benefit of artistic creation. After all, whenever you leave the wrong path, it is beneficial. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned it at all the committee meetings, I feel the duty of me to say it in plenary too: the artist's profession is a very special and precarious profession. Most artists live in poverty, live in uncertainty and need our support for their livelihoods, as well as support for their everyday lives. We saw in the pandemic what happened. In order to obtain a special allowance, since they gather the meanings they need with great difficulty, we know that on the producer market there are working-age practices, that is, undeclared work dominates. Many hours of rehearsal, as I said yesterday at second reading - why? for a badge. High performance requirements, but there are cases where their wages are not even paid. We know the complexity of industrial relations in the field of culture. We know that there are many issues. There are strong controversies about copyright and intellectual property. In particular, in the new digital age, a modern framework is needed to safeguard and protect them. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the major problem faced by artists regarding their degrees. It is a huge problem, without any response to this day, of 'vowed voice in the wilderness', of course. Artists, actors, dancers, directors, musicians receive a degree that is not recognized by the Ministry of Education, but has strict examinations from the Ministry of Culture. And not only, I would say here, they are excluded from the ability to teach in the middle of education, but they are excluded from other possibilities, such as following postgraduate studies or seeking their luck in another sector, a job as graduates. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, throughout Europe, for diplomas to be recognised and in Greece not. In other words, there are two standards here. Madam Minister, you will have to see it and contact the Minister of Education to give a solution - finally - to this problem. You said, Minister, that the excellence of their studies is being examined by the Ministry of Education and will come to a separate bill. When? That's what SYRIZA said last four years, four and a half years, he said, you didn't give a solution. So, "in a separate bill", you said. We'd like here to let you know when. We expect this, Minister, because it is unreasonable that there should be neither a corresponding grade in the Ministry of Education nor a procedure for the recognition of these diplomas, that is to say, the hostage of graduates should finally be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, 'ACPOL' is a positive step, I said yesterday and I told the committees as well. So I say again that we do not have to make opposition to the opposition. It is not enough for the opposition to develop culture. After all, as I said yesterday, we need a holistic approach and, above all, we need to start with three fundamental steps: Firstly, we must ensure higher degrees for artists. I mentioned earlier. Secondly, to limit undeclared work in culture to a minimum. To set up a framework that guarantees decent jobs with fair pay for the entire cultural sector. Thirdly, artistic courses should run all the curriculum courses from preschool to tertiary education. Melina Mercouri said, in her vision of introducing theatrical education into schools from the first grade: "If children's awareness of culture is achieved, we will create another society, another culture, another culture, another policy." That is, culture equals education. That is why artists, people of cultures, need our support, especially now, in the pandemic that has shown many of its problems and many pathogens and the Ministry has to find ways to respond and give solutions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Centre for Culture and Creation is needed, but it is not enough for the development of culture. A comprehensive strategy is needed, which will be served by specific tactics, support for artists and artistic education and arrangements to ensure transparency, dignity and objectivity. I come to the other provisions. I shall refer to the leases of cinemas and theatres which are automatically extended until 30 September 2021. This provision, Minister, states that it is not permitted to increase the rent from the publication of the law until 30 September 2021. Please note, however, that we may have to see the retroactive force of this device. Also, as regards the establishment of an independent public relations and customs department in the Ministry of Culture, it should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that there are still generalities in the wording and that its staff and budget are not clearly provided for and that this should be taken into account. Finally, with regard to your amendment to protect intellectual property rights on the Internet, it is clear that we are standing on the side of the creators against any insult. However, the procedure provided for by the setting up of committees, the drafting of an opinion, etc., I fear that it will be time-consuming and, of course, ineffective in cases of piracy, which are carried out at a certain time, because by the time the committee meets, the attack will already have been and will not be reversed, i.e. if we come here, we will be late. Finally, we tabled two amendments to support seasonal workers and workers in the 'House Help' programme. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it cannot be left out of support measures for workers who have guaranteed the right to unemployment benefit for eighty-five days and not eighty days. That's funny. Let's get serious. You need to see it and do it. I would say that you will accept our amendment. I close with a reference to the Museum - Brandenburg Oil Train in Lesvos, which we are waiting for immediately to adopt by the Ministry. I would remind you that this museum comes from the donation of the great Nikos Koundouros. We know that the Ministry has processed the regulation, but we are still waiting for it to be implemented. What needs to be stressed, Minister, is that this is the oldest and most remarkable industrial museum in Greece. So bring it soon for institutionalization. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL twice had been set up and it was not possible to institutionalise it. Set it up. Finally, Minister, I expect to hear your position and I will vote at first and then on the motions for resolutions at the end of the sitting, of course awaiting your answers to our proposals and to our points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The State Secretary for Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis, has the floor to develop the amendment by a general number of 400 and a special 8. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to support the amendment by a general number of 400 and a special 8. It is an urgent arrangement concerning, in particular, the extension of the contracts of workers hired under the Act 25/2/2020 of the Legislative Act in the EGE. This staff are necessary to meet the needs of the EGE as a result of the coronary pandemic. The same amendment also deals with an issue concerning the National Health Services Agency, which has also been called upon by the EEAS to meet the emergency needs for the treatment of the coronary and provides for the extension of the EEAS service contracts relating to the archiving and management of the Agency's archive. Finally, we regulate the possibility of moving nursing personnel from hospitals, health centres or multi-purpose regional hospitals to EAEC and Civil Protection at all the points of entry of the country to deal with the emergency of public health from the elevation of the coronary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u35	The amendment seeks to give the floor for a minute to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendonis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[TAKE PAGE 92-93]] Mr Secretary-General, we will consider the amendment and we will then be placed. However, I would like to ask you, because the amendment then refers to health efforts to tackle the pandemic, what will happen with permanent recruitment to the National Health System. Because extensions, good efforts, where you have seen that we have been responsible for health care too, but I think the crucial issue is the long-term support of the National Health System, commitment and finally the government's implementation of the necessary recruitment of medical and nursing personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u37	The President has the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Xenonanakopoulou, thank you for the comment. It's very important. We have stressed that many times that there must be permanent solutions to the National Health System. We have repeatedly said in this Chamber and in the context of parliamentary control, but also in bills, that our planning for the implementation of notices and the filling of permanent staff is progressing. In the next few months, until the end of August, the crises of nine hundred and forty-three medical staff will be completed. Already in the past few days, we have called for eighty extra positions of medical staff, mainly to meet the needs of the atrocities and remote areas of the country. The next time we finish our preparation for the proclamation of more than four hundred permanent posts of medical staff. The majority of these positions concern health centres in the country and, of course, hospitals in the country. There is, of course, a design for next year where the lion's share of the recruitments scheduled for next year will have them by the Ministry of Health. On the other hand, we have stressed by an oral Prime Minister that, where necessary, especially in the nursing sector, the recruitment of subsidiary staff will be converted into permanent recruitment and the positions of subsidiary medical staff will gradually turn them into curator positions, so that we have permanent posts in the National Health System and through a crisis procedure to pay these posts. Of course, the National Health System also needs other positions and other staff, such as those injured, and so on. We are considering the possibility of strengthening the system as well with these positions. Already in the process of proclamation by the AACC, the thousands of other personnel are already in the process of calling. The 2K notice from the AASP that was launched at the beginning of 2018 and we are in progress and - we also have it under parliamentary control - the four thousand OAED contractors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u39	Mr Gregoriadis, we have troubled you, but this procedure was necessary. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, you have given me so many positions. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much to all the colleagues who have been offered. Ladies and gentlemen, the current bill of the Ministry of Culture, which we are discussing here in plenary, is entitled 'Centre of Culture and Creation Acropolis and other provisions'. This bill is composed, as you know, of twenty-six articles, the first fourteen of which refer to the establishment and operation of the legal person of private law "ACROPOL ACROS", while the remaining twelve concern various issues of the Ministry of Culture. I will not give you the articles again. I think, after four meetings of the committee responsible, we have all done well and there is no point in moping you up. I shall proceed directly to the substance of our thoughts as a PARTA25. A great deal has been said and heard during the consultation, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Culture. With regard to the establishment of the private legal person "ACROPOL ACROS" the explanatory memorandum describes with rather enthusiastic - I would say - how the initiative to take advantage of the important building "ACROPOL" in the context of a partly subsidised private-law legal person for our culture. In studying this explanatory statement, one finds that this draft law places the promotion of culture and cultural management in a context of purely business, commercial, final, neoliberal, where the manager has a central role and not, unfortunately, the artist. Here you will allow me a reference to yesterday's report at the second reading in committee, which I was glad to say, I am very afraid that if the famous Van Gogh, the greatest painter of all times, had read the explanatory memorandum of this bill and even if he had taken it seriously, I fear - frankly I tell you by looking at you in the eyes - that he would have stopped painting. We wouldn't have Van Gogh, who, as you know, was not profitable at all while he was alive. I said yesterday he managed to sell a project of his whole life only to his brother who bought it from pity to his brother. I remember very well that I had the luck of playing in the theatre thirty-four consecutive years ago co-ordinating next to her very important, perhaps the most important Greek actor in life, Mr. Rennes Pittakis, in the "Virtual of the Arm", then replacing Stratos Georgeglou. It was a success as two days before the premiere we had the huge loss of our teacher Charles Kun. Success, therefore, and due to the very touching loss of the teacher, had made the theater almost full for the whole year. So when I replaced Strato, I was in a full theater. You know, "Groundland" is like a squeeze of Epidaurus in a basement. The three diaspora and the side was always full. One day, something had happened, who knows what-- there wasn't a coronary then-- I go into the theater and it's almost empty. So it's just the middle sediment and the other two licenses. I run a panic in Mrs Pitaki and say to her: 'What is that?' He says to me: 'What?' I say: 'It is an empty theater'. He tells me: "Not empty. We have more than a hundred people." I say to her: "But I won't be able to play like this. I'm not used to it." He says to me: "Oh, my child, the actor is as he is used to. We have not been able to play for years when it began to fill." Do you know why I'm telling you this? I'm telling you why the very great theatre man, the man who professed Peter Brooke, Peter Stein, was moving the theater around the world for twenty consecutive years, had become accustomed to having an empty theater mostly, especially in his searches. I remind you he had the luck of getting the first Jonesko in Greece. Only in Paris had Jonesko climbed up in the 1960 ’ s, when he himself uploaded him. We had the honour of bringing the author of "Pothos" Tennessee Williams to this country first. As a homosexual at that time, he was about like a bad witch who had to be killed on fire. I'm telling you all this to tell you that really linking the artwork to its economic efficiency is criminal. It must make no difference whether it's going to like it or not. Unfortunately, once again the government and the Ministry treat artistic creation as a commodity with market and money measures. The gaps, shortcomings and omissions that have shaken our space for decades, the area of culture, cannot - believe me - be solved by magic by setting up a body which will operate primarily in the commercialisation of art and will use the artist - let me say - as manager, as someone who will communicate the work of art with the fund as his first concern. Cultural management needs complex management. It needs a complex approach and open concepts that will not demarcate artistic production. State cultural management must provide equal opportunities for all artists in all fields. To support the whole of the artistic world without discrimination and segregation and to put aside red tape, sterile trade, mediation of art and artistic creation in terms and practices of neoliberalism, where the result of artistic work is always just one product. What does a product have to do with art, ladies and gentlemen? We are very concerned about the aim of the Ministry to transform artistic creation and the artist himself into a commercial product. It is a constant and imperative need - which is also intensified after the crisis of the coronary pandemic nowadays - for our culture to move away from its market competitive version. The ideal of excellence, believe me, does not fit in art and culture. We don't need another body that gets under his head just the elite. That's the kind of thing we already have. We have the «Stavros Niarchos Stavros». I'm not saying it's bad they exist, but they've got the elite underneath them. Let's look at the rest of us. We also note that the Ministry of Culture reserves the right to use the spaces of "ACROPOL" for its own events whenever it wants to. Does this mean that, in accordance with its intentions and intentions, the Ministry will also be involved in the planning of this legal person of private law at the appropriate level and in accordance with its needs? In fact, as mentioned in Articles 4, 5 and 7, on the Management Board, the Director and staff, we note that it is attempting to create a small amount of administrative staff. The five-year and three-year term of the Board will be appointed by the Minister of Culture, will be decisively involved in recruitment, supplies, financial management, etc., but will not be paid. And while the lack of remuneration of the members of the board of directors seems positive, at first hearing, I think we are falling into a trap. And I think that we are falling into a trap as, ladies and gentlemen, those who have the right to make a decision, in our view, in Mera25, especially when they manage public money, with this right, must be paid to strengthen their accountability, as well as to the feeling that they are carrying out a project rather than a'social offer'. Contrary to the board of directors, the director will be paid on the basis of a public invitation of interest, he will also be appointed by the Minister. All the features mentioned, for example typical features and the responsibilities it has placed, unfortunately - and I say with sincere grief - directly refer to private speculative managers and not to a public cultural director. It follows from this provision that the purpose of the director of the "AKROPOL ACROS" is to maximise the profits of the centre and not to promote culture by giving as many true artists as possible an expression, presentation and assistance. With regard to staff, I would like to say that in the centre there are seventeen full-time private-law posts of indefinite duration and two legal advisers. The positions shall be filled by a decision of the Management Board at the initiative of the Director. Here there is a strong boom odor of "the other side", if I'm not mistaken. I wish I could. An international advisory committee, set up by a decision of the Minister for Culture and Sport, is set up in Article 9. The International Advisory Committee shall be five-member and its members shall be individuals of known standing in the field of arts, letters, technology and science in general. Take a little note of the wording because it is interesting: the chairman and the members of the committee are appointed by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport. There is an attempt to internationalize the centre for attracting international producers, as well as foreign producers. That's good. We fear, however, that staffing will follow the Marckinist - apologise for the expression - of the whole bill. We sincerely hope to disprove. In the wider context of excellence policy, the draft law also speaks clearly about the extermination of the region of Acropolis. It is, therefore, reasonable to think that if such an outrage automatically means establishing an elite, a small community based on advertising, one would say, as the New Democracy Government imagines in most cases, which will work there and attract other 'experts' members of society who are not confronted with each other. Do all the other places - theatres, music scenes, galleries, art sites - which are not in such areas that the government intends to extinguish, will be left to their fate without any support from the state? What is really going to happen, ladies and gentlemen, with all these people who have been struggling every day for years to survive themselves and their sites, while they are vital points of cultural action and artistic creation in various districts in Athens decentralised and while they have been firmly outside subsidies or other state support, despite the fact that they meet all the standards? All of these are certainly not ‘perfect’ according to the government's standards. Specific reference should also be made to Article 20 on arrangements for the display of monuments and the Directorate-General for Restoration, Museums and Technical Works of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. This article, although part of the other provisions, is not related, i.e., directly to "ACCOPOL ACROS", moves precisely in the market context with which the New Democracy as a government treats culture, whether our modern or cultural heritage. In short, what this provision is trying to establish is to trade the rights of culture and to stand on the glory of our ancient ancestors, with a view to economic gain, both both both both in and out of hand, without a plan, without any vision, without any sensitivity. I chose to close my report with a quote - and, in my opinion, it is the most important thing to hear from me here today - from an interview that was only published two days ago. An interview by Haine, by Mr. Dimitris Apostolakis in the world, after calling in advance for diligence - not yours - of Mr. Apostolakis, since the word "hain", which comes from Arabic "hain" means "revolutionary", means "the one going back to the mountains", while the china, as you probably know, were the Christian rebels who appeared in Crete after their island was conquered by the Turks. Perhaps he also feels that his words should not be confined to walls, let alone between the walls of a parliament. However, his word is here, he is present, and he is the reason for an artist and an intellectual gathering. Because the artist, ladies and gentlemen, is also invited to perform the role of intellectuals at a time when, unfortunately, the intellectuals of the country seem to have been silent for some time. So hein says Mr. Dimitris Apostolakis: "After all this adventure of recent months, quarantines, fleeing, recordings, I understood once again, in another way, the wealth, simplicity, depth of municipal poetry and our folk culture. I realized once again that people are the living books. I realized once again that everyone is unique and irreplaceable. How sad to see it when it is left! I realized once again that the magic of life is in the synergy to make with appetite something that answers an unexistent question. Why, really, who needs art in a world where people seem more and more like computers? Once again I understand that the absolute, the god, who was persecuted by the churches, the parliaments, the courts, hid himself 'tired' in the souls of some of his minimal artists every day. That's why power has always been hostile to art. He wanted to blow up God's last sanctuary. Modern gods, such as profit, reputation, growth, security are spectacular. Every day, human sacrifices. Power means hierarchy, subjugation to social law. Art means freedom and harmony with natural law. And yet, power treats artists as the proverb says "I died to love you and not to want you". It's going crazy. Our money and national pride draws them from the works of some ancient and younger artists, tragedies, sculptors and so on. And don't forget that power is you, dear fellow men. The job of the state is to beat up artists wherever they can find them. But you? You, musical, theatre-friends, what are you doing? Is it not your job to protect arts and arts - I don't know how - like the vault of freedom, culture and historical memory for your children? What about us? We, ladies and gentlemen, have the sanctity and courage to live from the solidarity of those we inspire, as the priests should do and what proud trainers do? I also realized that the illness of a person or group means arrhythmia, a lack of harmonious wave between additional quantities. The planet has been acting like a rabid, male predator: Profitability, growth, progress, purpose, pursuit, success, conclusion of the ecosystem. Few people learned something from even imposed immorality and slowness. Few people dared to travel in the inner unfilamented universe. The majority lived in the lie of the screens and looked forward to returning to the former, sick, normality. But the feminine qualities, the basis of each warrior, can only move a flawed and unbalanced planet. Once again, I understand what a terrible crime we committed to relying on in the tertiary sector - services, tourism - and we deported the primary - monocultures - we deported our material and intellectual goods. The shortest way a people can lose self-sufficiency, independence, freedom. In the day of quarantine it seemed clear that fantasy is more valuable than real. The soul was saved only by the few people who were dived into the secrets of an art and swallowed with a ransom detail. Our lives have a mythological basis, since her key question will remain unanswered. The unspeakable pragmatism is dystopia, loneliness and misery. Art is the ark of the myth. I realized that health is not the most important asset, it is not an end in itself. Health is a means of moving on to the path of freedom, harmony, justice and dignity. Before you rock me for what I write, consider the following mathematical proposal: No slave is ever really healthy, no one really healthy is a slave!” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u41	Very interesting, Mr. Comrade! The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor now. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Government of New Democracy and the Minister of Culture themselves never lose the opportunity to proclaim their faith and promote the commodity side above all, not to say exclusively, of art and culture. So yesterday, with the position of the Minister and in order to defend this position, she invoked international literature in general and indefinitely, after a study by the Bank of Greece of 2014, as if the bankers could see the world and otherwise, seeing them as goods and profits as well as a study by UNESCO, but forgetting that all international organisations are ultimately reflected in international correlations. And everyone today knows who these connections are and how negative these correlations are for the people and their rights. In short, the government takes the view that art is a commodity and, therefore, what should concern us is how this commodity will become more profitable, how it will contribute more effectively to capitalist development and to the upgrading of the international position of the Greek bourgeoisie. All of this is enclosed in a few sentences in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. I read it: "The cultural and creative sector supports economic growth, is characterized by high-intensive work, offers jobs in a wide range of professionals and contributes substantially, both in the daily lives of citizens and in the international impact of the country, as proven to be a source of mild power." No, that's not a quote from a lesson lecture at some financial school. It is the introduction of the current bill of the Ministry of Culture! And all of a sudden, where you don't expect it, SYRIZA shows up against the merchandising of art and culture by the New Democracy. I'll put aside the glove of the whole scenery. In fact, who's showing up? Who? SYRIZA. Who, as a government, served faithfully and deepened the commercialisation of culture and art, as demonstrated in his attitude both on the issue of sinful GDPI and in general on the issue of copyright for authors. Who? SYRIZA. Who did not hesitate to sign the alleged transfer to the so-called superstition for ninety - please! - the years of all archaeological sites and the cultural monuments of our country in order to exploit them commercially. In fact, in the New Democracy and SYRIZA culture they remind of that known proverb "one hand washes the other person together", i.e. entrepreneurship, which means the commercialisation of culture. Of course no one, nor do we, of course, deny reality. We - you know - are struggling to change this reality without ever subjugating and bowing to it. A reality which says that in capitalism everything is considered or everything is converted into goods and certainly neither art nor culture are excluded from this capitalist rule. But you also know that there is a fundamental question here: what is the purpose and the reason for culture? When does the true function of art actually take place? When it is subjected to entrepreneurship condemned to become a profit machine for a few or when it humanizes man, when he cultivates his soul, when he reassurs his feeling, when he shows him the truth of life and reality, when he helps him understand his power, change this reality, change this world for the better, that is, according to his current, modern needs? And that's what you know, Mrs. Mendoni, it's not just a report of ideas, like you said yesterday, but it's the big one, it's the real dilemma of our time and in culture, as in all social phenomena. And the answer you give to this dilemma has very specific practical results, especially for people, the people. So here is why the treatment of culture as a commodity is disastrous for culture itself, not because, necessarily, commercial art is bad, but because it is marked by its very purpose, as commercialized art is not a freely growing art, but is an art that defines it, which is guided by the maximizing profit for the businessman and for the capitalist economy. And if now the content of an art project is fake, it's harmful, antisocial, that's not at all, but it's not of interest. All that matters to the perception of commercialized art is this work to sell. And when we talk here - you know - about profit not only in its narrow economic sense, but also in its broader, ideological sense. It is with this spirit that today's bill is soaked up to the metro. Its only concern is the creation of conditions for maximising the profitability and competitiveness of investments in modern culture through the quadruple: entrepreneurship, extroversion, digital transformation, public-private partnership. What's the sign of the bill? The establishment of the organization called "Centre of Culture and Creation" which will have the task of becoming the tool, becoming the vehicle to direct small artistic production - which still dominates our country - to the tentacles of great entrepreneurship. It would be enough to vote against this, but to look at it a little bit at its most basic points. The choice of ‘ACROPOULS’ as a legal person under private law is explained by its objective. Since this centre of culture is placed in the service of entrepreneurship it is very reasonable to operate the same on entrepreneurship terms and for the benefit of increasing its revenues, and let it be mentioned in the bill, absolutely hypocritical, that it is a non-profit-making institution. ACROPOL, therefore, appears as a body that seeks to help self-employed artists and small groups become successful entrepreneurs by offering them - listen - and subsidies, but above all know-how to find funding, business skills, information nodes, opportunities to promote their work, methods of exploiting modern technology, hosting structures for exchanging artistic experiences, great residences, interconnecting possibilities among themselves, but above all interconnecting possibilities - and here is the essence - and opportunities for partnerships with the well-known and well-populated institutions of the capitalists, who have in fact undertaken, with the undeclared everything, the issue of culture in our country. Names we're not saying. According to the draft law, the aim is to make small and micro-enterprises in culture sustainable. But is this only a matter of business skills and appropriate know-how? Of course not. Proof? Even business colossians - please - of the cultural industry, with huge know-how in marketing and public relations, are seeing a collapse under the pressure of capitalist competition. Another is the real objective and let us not expressly mention it. The aim is to stop so many small businesses and individual self-employed artists, that is to concentrate in and out of the activity of ACROPOL - not only through it - artistic production in larger enterprises and those small businesses which prove to be more resilient in order to do what? Satellites of the large cultural area and the well-known institutions set up by almost all the major capitalists, institutions that are not renowned, especially for their primary artistic production, despite looking to find it ready. Likewise, the direct aim of the bill is the most massive attraction especially of young artists - who are being thrown away at this time of pandemic, without even for most of them the slightest aid from the state - so that all these young artists can see the entire project of the center "AKROPOL" as a board of salvation, but since first these young artists pay a very expensive price for themselves and for their art. What's the price? Their obligation to embrace and ferment with the polluting values of the capitalist market, to incorporate the strategic choices of cultural capital and to integrate them into these options. Who, with whom, a purpose? At best, for most of these young artists, to be useful for profits and consumable cheap labour, the north of the great business interests and the fuel of the so-called cultural economy. This is the true meaning of the phrase in the draft explanatory memorandum on growth, as it says, 'a framework characterised by sustainable labour models'. There is also reason in the bill for the public of art and culture, which, according to the bill, is seeking to grow. That sounds good. And one would expect first, this effort to start systematically from school, to raise the cultural level of the popular strata, so that they can understand, be able to capture and enjoy every form of art. But what do we see? In the same government, on the one hand, the Ministry of Culture speaks of increasing the artistic audience and, on the other, of the Ministry of Education to downgrade and abolish the artistic courses in schools. Well, hypocrisy, reading! One more thing: It is well known how necessary free time is for someone to have contact with art. But where are they going to find him this year, the free man, most of the spa workers and irregular hours? Where to find him this year, young girls, young women running with their souls from home to work and children, and what remains with them is being exposed more and more to the trash of the sub-cultiva? No, he doesn't deal with anything and none of that bill. And then how does the government plan to increase this audience of art? But with marketing and new digital distribution techniques. So, to remind us again, art as a commodity in capitalism is aimed exclusively at buyers and not socialists. The bill leaves no doubt that the deeper control of the ideological directions of art will be attempted through the centre, with a selective expression and funding of very specific and virtues in the system of artistic perceptions, such as the last-type postmoderns, but also very specific artists, respectively. And if national resources are too weak, where will they be? However, the European Union's resources will only be available if the actions supported by ACROPOL are consistent with the political, economic and ideological objectives of the European Union. As you can see, then, in such a cultural centre, which will operate in business, and its board and director, but also its advisory committee will consist of patented representatives of the business perception of art, with its corresponding, of course, ideological content. And, of course, there is no place on the board of directors for representatives of the people of culture and arts, even if they are state bodies, such as the Chamber of Arts, which is excluded, as is all of course, from this centre. For the second part of the bill, I may need two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u43	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. There are many heterogeneous provisions and there are more or less what we have said about the first part. We shall vote, of course, on the provision of Article 15 which provides for the extension of the extracts of the workers to the state tents, but we shall not consent to the provision of Article 17 for the Museum of Contemporary Art, since it does not provide a definitive and permanent solution to the question of the accommodation of the museum in the area of the former "FIX", i.e. where it is housed today, which is now part of "ATITIC MERO S.A.". The best solution - we said yesterday - is this provision to withdraw and come up with a new one, which will stipulate that today's building facilities, used for the housing of the National Museum of Contemporary Art, go into ownership as its asset, which I would remind the Prime Minister himself. We left for the end of Article 20, the cherry in the business cake of the bill. Although the Government claims that it improves the existing legislation on the protection of monuments - mobile and immovable - in fact with what is written in point (b) of paragraph 4(d) of Article 20 on imaging and imprinting - it distinguishes these concepts - a monument, it opens them to wide-ranging speculators in the bill to exempt from compulsory licensing or the planned fee for the imaging or use of monuments by all kinds of businessmen. We are not talking here of a painter, of course, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, who will have a classic monument. We are talking here about a multinational company, which, with a mere alteration of the image, which will also appear as an artistic intervention, will escape from the licence requirement and will be commercially exploited, as Article 20 says - and I read it precisely - will be imprinted which has as its starting point the existing image of the monument, but which goes beyond creatively, prosthetically, prosthetically or in any other way, such as by scientific interpretation, artistic creation or fantasy inspiration. So, there's no way, we're expecting, of course, very soon to see the Parthenon's columns take the form of soft drinks or beer bottles and maybe that's the least. And that is now to be viewed by the law as I read, visual intervention or creative intervention in the image of the monument. We've opened and we're waiting for you, the government says to the business groups. Come for business with our monuments. We relieve you of the unnecessary bureaucracy of protecting these monuments. Take advantage of your profits all the endless archaeological wealth of our country. We are not simply voting against this article. We're denounced. One of the evils, Minister. It could be a hub of cultural creativity, exchange, communication, enhancement and promotion of artistic creation. Instead, you are setting up a directorate for the management of cultural money on the basis of commercial criteria, the entrepreneurisation of artistic creation ultimately within the limits of the political feasibility of the European Union. Of course we are also voting against most of the articles in this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u45	The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Sophia Asmakopoulou, is called in Stepma. After Mrs Asimakopoulou, the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on culture is always timely. Especially during the days that have affected almost all of its appearances, it is more timely than ever. You let him bleed because there is no strategic plan. We saw artists begging the government to support them. You have thrown people who serve culture into begging for what they themselves deserved. You should have seen them be indignant and proclaimed betrayed to deal with them. And it is not just those who have already been affected by the health situation. Behind the works of culture are thousands of technicians, caregivers, musicians, producers. And it's unknown what's going to follow for everyone this winter season. Art is inextricably linked to society. That is why it is not possible for all these professionals to be at risk of extinction and for us to be simply observers in their collapse. As also, you cannot leave them to their fate until the very last moment, if we experience the same crisis area in the coming months. The elements that combine the various forms of art of each society mirror the trends and the spirit of the culture of the time, while maintaining very often open contact with the culture of older periods. This is a spiritual phenomenon that is evolving within the social groups as a means of expressing and communicating ideas, thoughts and values. The relationship between art and society is particularly close. It does not just provide information, but opens new ways of thinking. It contributes catalysts to the spiritual rise and the proper functioning of social groups. We are all talking about this in order to highlight the importance as an expression of culture and to highlight the intense disgrace that they and its people are suffering. Furthermore, Greek citizens feel threatened by illegal immigrants at cultural level, and this must be heard. The country's cultural life is downgraded because of its presence and citizens want the country's self-evident cultural homogeneity. Because the Greeks must be united in the face of the challenges of the times. The greatest of them, which is not only a challenge, but a clear hybrid, is the transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque. It's the greatest insult to Orthodoxy. The lukewarm treatment of Greece would lead to this catastrophic consequence, which we in the Greek Solution through our President have repeatedly pointed out. In the draft law, which starts with the creation of a legal person under the name "Centre for Culture and Creation" and the distinguished title "ACROPOL ACROPOL ACROOS" many questions arise regarding your choice to create a new body in order to give life to the building of the former hotel "ACROPOL PALACE". In the explanatory statement, the reason why you need to make a new recommendation is not sufficient. In order to make use of the existing officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, no reason, and further public administration must be imposed. The name "ACROPOL ACROS" should, in our opinion, normally be translated into Greek and perhaps someplace justified your decision by examining the objectives of this new body. One way or another, however, is by not answering the question, what will be the cost of covering all these objectives? Are they actually responding or do you want to fill out the pages of the draft law? And if they respond, as you say, what will they cost in the pocket of Greek taxpayers? We see that almost everything will be done by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport. In Article 4, for example, the Board of ACROPOL ACROS, composed of the President, the Vice-President and three members, will be appointed together with its alternates, by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport. You are generally talking about personalities of the artistic, spiritual and scientific world, lawyers, economists or persons with experience of the organization’s purposes or experience in organization’s administration. Maybe because you've already picked them, so you don't have to let us know any further evidence? You did not think that they could be chosen by means of a tender or by a competent committee of Parliament and that, because Article 5 will be the result of the will of the Minister concerned. In particular, the criteria to be met for the post speak for themselves. The director is probably already chosen. It will also receive remuneration which you have for surprise since these will be determined by a joint decision of the Ministers for Finance and Culture and Sport. Article 7 recommends seventeen full-time private sector law posts and two legal advisers' posts. We assume that there should be some selection criteria for these recruitments, which you have artificially overlooked to let us know. Evidently, those officials who manage the agency will be rewarded. You have not even notified us of their remuneration.The absence of transparency is diffuse in this bill. We see reference being made to assignments, to recruit people to cover urgent seasonal or unforeseen needs, by a fixed-term contract of employment. And you haven't told us how many people, or how much they'll be paid. ACROPOL ACROS will be structured in four sections, and there will be a legal service office, which will be directly owned by the Board of Directors. So many divisions to justify the positions? It doesn't explain any other way. As far as the International Advisory Committee is concerned, we note that it will also be set up by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport, without knowing the criteria for selecting its staff. Only expenditure and unknown the outcome of its cooperation with the Board. In addition, you do not indicate how the infrastructure is to be used in relation to the resources referred to in Article 12. Honestly, we want to know what the level of grants from the regular budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport will be. The same applies to grants from the national part of the Public Investment Programme. In addition, you are talking about forward revenues from any other legal source that depends on the service of the entity's purposes. And because you are not clear, we want to know if there is a chance that it will also be a case of NGOs. Will this new body be adopted again by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport? In the transitional provisions of Article 14, we see that you have speeded up the appointment of the Director of "ACROPOL ACROS" within two months of the publication of the present, with a two-year term of office. A serious issue also arises in the arrangements for cancelling and postponing events referred to in Article 16, where you grant the organiser the right to offer the customer an equivalent credit note for the same or other event that will be held in the future. Instead of imposing an obligation on organisers to repay the amount paid by customers, enter this solution without calculating buyers, since, of course, you do not care for their interests, but that of organisers. If, in fact, the total value of the service the customer will eventually monitor exceeds the value of the credit note, the difference shall be paid by the customer to the organiser. To pay on top. Only on expiry of the credit note and in case this has not been used by the customer, the customer is entitled and the organiser is obliged to pay the customer a financial amount equal to the value of the credit note by 31-10-2021. Call me May to have a triple. What if they don't get their money by then, do they have any courts? Expansions are seen in Article 18 as regards the adoption of the rules of operation of the Greek Cinema Centre, the National Opera and the Athens Concert Hall. Well, that's true, but did you check why they delayed extradition? About the Department of Public Relations and Impression of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which will be directly subject to the Minister of Culture, what can we say? Whole section of travel and conferences. And, indeed, he needs a lead on that. In Article 22 for the Thessaloniki Film Festival, four addresses are available. However, it is more impression that the superpower given to a person, the director of a festival, rather than selecting the films that participates in the International Film Festival, the Documentary Festival and the Greek Film Festival and specifying their day and order, until the regulations for the performance of the three festivals are drawn up, which he then submits for approval to the Director-General. And at the Greek Film Center the Board of Directors defines it as the Minister of Culture and Sport. Personnel will also be hired under a lease agreement without any further clarification. Just before the end, in Article 24, you conclude with another recommendation, this time with the position of director of the private legal persons of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, with photographic qualifications of course. We, in the Greek Solution, believe that safeguarding and developing our culture is one of our most powerful weapons. It is important to invest in him, especially in the country he was born. That is why our debt is double and we must not forget the past, so that we can be successful in the future. We must not forget the people who serve him. Let us finally recognize the crucial economic, cultural and social impact of culture on the life of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u47	Until the Step is ready and Greek President Velopoulos will take the floor, the Minister has two minutes for the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. The legal improvements will be distributed. I just want to say the most important, in my opinion. in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 1, the words ‘20 (20)’ shall be replaced by ‘90 (99)’. The first subparagraph of Article 4(1) shall be replaced by the following: ‘The Board of ACROPOL ACROS shall be five-members, appointed by a decision of the Minister of Culture and Sport published in the newspaper of Government, and composed of the President, the Vice-President and two (2) members, appointed by the Minister and an official of the Directorate-General for Contemporary Culture of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, shall serve as a post of responsibility, as indicated by the General Assembly of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Workers of the Ministry of Culture and Sport.’. In paragraph 2 of Article 4 after the word ‘three years’, the words ‘, which may be renewed’ shall be added. in the first paragraph of Article 17, the words ‘for twenty (20) years’ shall be deleted; In the first and second subparagraphs of Article 19(1), ‘30 September 2021’ is replaced by ‘31 December 2021’. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, because we have fallen out too much in time - there have not yet been any Members of Parliament, and there are twenty-one spokesmen - with your tolerance we will make the Members' minutes from the beginning six minutes, so that the last speakers are not wrong, of course, with one tolerance. However, I would ask that the six-minute period be observed. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u50	The House has agreed. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Friends and friends, the fact that there is a hegemony of the Left in culture is seen by the mood of SYRIZA and the rest of the left parties to be here today to speak. Unfortunately, I would like, starting, Minister, to address your government. Are you a Ministry of Greek culture? What does "ACROS" mean? The end of the city we knew it was the Acropolis. Do you call it "ACROPOL ACROS", "cut"? What does it mean? So let me see where the Greek civilization is? A Greek name they couldn't make? ‘Akron’, ‘out’. Do the'mottograss', at least, that everyone knows as an expression. That's our Greek a little. By reading, of course, the bill, we see ruffles again, hired again, two thousand eight hundred people. You're hiring in every bill. That's not just your point. All the ministers of the New Democracy who bring a bill from the windows are pouring people. From the windows, from the doors, from the rams. You're creating a new army of outdated voters, not to say a party army. It is in the context of the old-fashioned conception of decades that the parties had, you, the New Democracy, because you have a new Prime Minister. He is called a reformer himself. A reformer with an old-fashioned perception at least doesn't fit me well. Commissioners, Members, jobs, but no precise pay provision. That is to say, "I will hire two thousand eight hundred people." I, say, in my business, when I want to hire ten, twenty people - you say two thousand eight hundred, because you don't put money out of your pocket, while I put it out of my pocket - I calculate the wage cost. There isn't! Abstract! Now having abstract designs exists, only in Greek reality. Also, Minister - and as a government - to talk a little bit about culture, I would like to ask you this: Because I have another concept of culture, have they been recorded - looking for my colleagues since this morning and disprove me - all the castles that Greece has in the Ministry of Culture? Is it registered?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u52	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u53	It's registered. You know, in the 19th and especially in the 20th century in Europe almost all the castles that were abandoned, renovated and became tourist attraction and development poles. In Austria, Germany that I live in, most of the things happened. Tell me you in Greece in the last 100 years which castles have been renovated, which castles have been reconstructed, regenerated. To Platamonas, let's say that it was me three days ago, Minister, the northwestern department is falling down. You know that? Send your services. Not to say that these castles could indeed create a cultural background for the wider regions. They tell me there are about a thousand castles in Greece and they are unexploited. Go to Methoni to see the castle, Minister. The stones fall into the sea, it breaks down the castle. Some people think it's a little weird. It's not weird. It marks a culture, a development. And the problem isn't you. The funds you do not have are the problem. I'm afraid so. And no Ministry of Culture really had money to do this job. For me, our country offers culture, offers light. For this culture, we could give the Ministry of Culture a huge amount of money to carry out archaeological excavations, make conservations, make renovations. I'll give an example. Go across the street, Minister, the Department of Foreign Affairs. Right there's a square building. Should we talk about his aesthetics? It's not your fault. I told you. Decades have passed. We demolished the neoclassical buildings and built square boxes. This aesthetic - because it is a city in Athens - does not exist in other European cities. In other European cities, the centre remained a centre. Here we devastated it, we left nothing standing. It is a few things that could also become the beginning of a cultural and cultural upheaval. It can't be done. Let's start somewhere. I remember that in Germany, in a particular city, Minister, thirty, forty years ago, money was given for the fronts of the buildings - in the center - to make the German architecture. We could do that in Athens too - so much money we spend - so that the building can be made from outside. I was very pleased, Minister, with your answer to the 1736 Historic Monastery of Agraphs, which has suffered enormous damage. You said you'd send a commission. Check it out, 'cause they're stalling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u54	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u55	It's not the ministers' fault. The problem is in Greek administration. The problem is, often, the bureaucracy of the officials, either because they do not have a jobload, or because they have not worked that way. Let's put a little more pressure on it. So we're all talking about culture here in Greece. I'll show you a picture. I don't know how many people you know about her. It was one of the most beautiful hotels in the Old Faliro. Look at this building. It was "AKAYON". That's what it was called. Ornament. We demolished it, Minister, and we did it in the apartments and square buildings. There has been a lack of aesthetics for a century in Greece. And it is on the basis of that is my objection. It's not general to talk about artists. Artists are a part of the wider civilization. But if you don't have culture aesthetics, you can't just talk about artists. We, as citizens and politicians, need to talk about culture and create culture now, since we do not have productive web, because culture is also an attraction for development and for tourism and for other things. I'm saying it in very simple words. Our proposals: Minister, you are Minister for Culture. It's not your Ministry's responsibility, but I'm going to go a little bit on other issues. For days now, we've had a conflict with our Holy Wisdom. For me it's a church - I've said it a thousand times - and the story is over. But it doesn't matter what I say. The government matters what it says. Our proposal: There is information that the Turks want Fetiyer Jammi under the Acropolis to do it again. Don't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u56	We won't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u57	That's all I'm saying. Go out publicly as a government and say that despite Erdogan's pressure, it will never happen. To the Botanic, why are you rushing to the inauguration? You tell me. Why are we in a hurry? What great importance do we have to hurry to do in the Botanic mosque when others make our mosques? I ask you. The Minister, Mrs. Kerameos, three months ago, brought here a bill and opened mosques in the Dodecanese, because in Kos she has a hundred fifty and in Rhodes three hundred Muslim Turkish residents. Turks call them. Why open them? "Fly" them. Find bureaucratic way to freeze. I am not saying that the government should take responsibility, because you are also fearful. Not you personally, but as a government, as a New Democracy. Let me prove this to you. There is a law prohibiting meetings. Is there the law? Meetings are prohibited. Police enter the stores, arrests people and closes a shop with fifteen thousand fines. And that's good! That's the law. We are arresting priests, arresting metropolitans, but yesterday we let anarchists meet, or these evil para-states of the NGOs, because they are para-staters. So yesterday, in Victoria Square, there was a gathering. Do you want extremes? Do you want residents in the area? The residents did it. Of course, they also took advantage of the Nazi elements - another thing we are going through, we are condemning it - a New Democracy Member has gone too. Against this background, some helmeted and bats, who were themselves "blacks" - two hundred people. No one was arrested. How did you let these two two people over there do what they did? Co-concentrations. What right illegally concentrating? I ask you. Of course, the slogan that was there do you know what it was? That he'll dance in the tomb of the Greeks upstairs. In other words, the shame is that they called a slogan for the dead Greeks. I don't know if New Democracy and the Minister, Chrysochoidis, hear that. They were talking about the Leventis Greek who want to party on his grave. Achna. No channel showed it. These children are the loved children of the media, the curious children of the para-state elements, the hoods and the motifs. That is why we have told you here - and Mr Chrysochide - my Minister, that you should take all these steps to prevent them being repeated. Because the first day eight, nine people were arrested, and the next day justice came out. That's how it's gonna be. We will either take repressive measures or not just legislate. It can't be done. And we are going to the NOVARTIS case. Ladies and gentlemen, it is repeated - not with 'e', but with 'yes', so that I do not pay tribute to anyone - the same political prank decades ago. Examination, pre-examination different findings all of us. It's a political prank. We're making fun of the world. Different findings. This means that the Syrian MEP has another concept of justice, the neo-democratic other conception, the PASOK another concept, the JRC another concept and we cannot find the concept of justice. You want me to believe that you really want to find the guilty, if it's a serpent, if it's a lie, etc.Huh? Find the money. Novartis' stolen money I want back. Your political constituencies and political pranks with exams and fifteen findings to stop them. Request compensation from NOVARTIS in money, cash, not as you did with "SIEMENS" in here, that you have done seminars for naive and immoral seminars as settling. I want money to return it to the Greek, the pensioner, the farmer, the fisherman and any Greek worker. The money "NOVARTIS" stole I want you to bring back. The rest is excuses to make micro-political and make fake mistresses. Let's go to a serious one, too. I have a response from the Minister of National Defence. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and PASOK and of New Democracy, Greece has five Super Puma since 2013, which are in EAB. Five Super Puma. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. The Minister's answer says maintenance for each Super Puma costs about two and a half million. Two and a half million times five of us are doing about 12.5 million euros, so that Greece will have five wars of Super Puma tomorrow morning. I'll tell the Prime Minister. I'll send him a letter today to make an intervention. We don't have it because we don't have the money. They didn't testify. And you've given 20 million euros to every holster, every intertwined person to brainwash us for how good it is to stay at home. We gave 20 million! Listen, you did well, if you like, not for the money you've given, but that you saved Greece. I don't know, it'll show up in the process if you saved her or if you buried her more economically. But the government did something. For 12.5m euros the Greek Army will not have them? What kind of government is this? I told you about the eight of them armoured and nobody listened to me. I took the Prime Minister myself, and fortunately the man took it and took it upon Evros. Five Super Puma. Because we didn't get in here to stand up for the opposition. We have come to suggest, to have a programme and a plan, and above all to listen to us, because what we are telling you is true. Look it up, five Super Puma. Now let's go to the gaffes, 'cause time is pressing. You've made infinite gaffes in New Democracy as government, many. The gappa the great became the same day that Erdogan announced that he would make St. Sophia mosque. At the same time, the MEPs of the New Democracy and the rest of the parties, Mrs SYRIZA, unfortunately, gave the green light to get EUR 500 million at the same time from the European Parliament. A letter was sent yesterday, an excellent letter from the Member of Parliament, to which we asked the Commissioner for Trade to protect Greek products from Turkish infiltration and European infiltration. In other words, Turkish products should not be uncontrolled in Europe. Not one MEP of your own parties, nor one, for Turkish products, has signed the Commissioner for Trade. To protect Greek products, we also asked for quality controls on Turkish products. No Member of your Parliament has signed, just one of the European People's Party and he was a Slovak. Even Lepten signed. Even she signed, Lepten. Salvini signed. VOX signed, the ECR signed. The European People's Party has not signed. Another gave: Secret diplomacy. What do you want with them? You know what they say in my village? “ - Can you steal? - I can do it. - Can you hide? - Oh, no. - Hey, don't steal." You went and you got sold out by Erdogan. You went to make secret diplomacy behind the political world's back, behind the back of Greek citizens. He sent his office's responsible for international matters and he trusted - who? - Erdogan, which Turkey has repeatedly shown that he has no bass and works bassica. It's not the first time, and I'm really embarrassed. If you think that with the secret diplomacy we'll separate Greece and take a look at the Turks, you're wrong. And I want the rest of the parties to tell me: is it for consideration in the Aegean, yes or no? To listen to their views, I really want to hear whether SYRIZA, the JRC and all other parties on peaceful coexistence. It is important that the Greek people hear it, who share the clothes of the country. Because from the New Democracy I think that this is their thinking, that is their understanding, not of Members, of their government. Why am I saying that? You can't, guys, come the New Democracy Government and make special law to give money to the ELIAMEP. Do you know that? In Article 52 of the next bill, if I'm not mistaken, it gives the ELIAMP money of the Greek state. And I ask you New Democracy MPs: ELIAMEP has a flag of consultation. How does the New Democracy and the Minister give money to an institution that talks about co-existence constantly and gives him money and has Mr Doko as his advisor to national affairs? Look it up for a bit, 'cause this is where it smells. It smells bad, and when it smells bad, things start and they go to rot. When Mr. Dendias comes out today and reveals in an interview that the Erdogan decision to convert into a mosque will not affect work on the Botanic mosque - this morning Mr. Denkias said - what does Turkey have to do more to countermeasure us? No measures against her, but countermeasures defensive. Tell me about it! And Mr. Dendias says: He was set up by Erdogan, and the Prime Minister said to him: “It will not happen because you ask me to mosque the Botanic. We will do it so that Muslims can have a prayer somewhere." I have the draft law with Article 52 here. The government gives you money to the ELIAMEP. Honestly, I am sure that many New Democracy Members do not agree with all this and cannot agree, because they are patriots or because they believe in Greece. It bothers me as a man not to speak. They don't talk! There are tragic things happening, and when I say tragic, much more tragic than you imagine. Mr Apostolakis comes out of SYRIZA - to see which country we live in, in parallel universe - and he tells the story of the eight, nine Turks, that when the coup took place - here's what the Minister of Defence said at the time - we were about to send a helicopter to save Erdogan. Greece was ready, said the Minister of National Defence himself in his interview, would send Greece to save Erdogan. Well, let them be slain by each other. Should I go save Erdogan? The Minister said so. Of course, Turkey is also courageously calling for them to be given to their military officers. So let's get back to the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants he sent here, open the church to make Agia Sophia church again, leave Cyprus their troops, stop claiming and provoke in Thrace and the Aegean and see if we can help him in this too. But not all of it for free. It can't be done. Finally, because I know that you do not have much time, Mr President, listen to my fellow Members, I said so the day before yesterday. Turkey does not want to be a European country. You understand that. It cannot be a European country. Turkey is an Islamic country, it is Asian. And if you don't understand what Erdogan's doing right now, I'm afraid we'll be defeated. Erdogan wants to make a Sunni, Islamic, Ottoman, Sultan state capitalized by Constantinople. Sunnitic! Because the Shiatics have it. Let's do some geopolitical lessons, that's not bad. What does that mean? He wants to rebuild the Ottoman Empire. He said it himself, he said it. He's a member of the Muslim fraternity. What more can he do to prove that he's an Islamist, Nazi, extreme, authoritarian and - what I'm going to say once again - unwilling? He's a good-looking man. So how am I going to have a dialogue with him? How do I make a secret conversation? Did you go to make a secret conversation with who? With the fascist, the dictator, Erdogan? Listen, as much as you secret conversation and do, whatever you want and do, secret conversation, do what you want, but immunity from us will never have in any anti-national route. Clear things! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And in order to understand it and close it, the Turks, friends and friends, really work chauvinistic, imperialist, militaristic, and they are faced with a downsizing and constant retreat, which, unfortunately, has been based on dialogue and confidence building. I told you about the five helicopters. Tomorrow morning someone from here, Parliamentary spokesman, to speak today, I will try to speak with the Prime Minister, to go and get the helicopters. The day before yesterday, we had incidents in Armenia with Azerbaijan. Did you hear that? The Minister had to go to Armenia yesterday. Armenians down two UAVs of Azerbaijan. And Akar comes out and says he's going to fight Armenia. People are vicious, they're dangerous. Syria, Northern Iraq, Libya, Egypt, Greece. They've opened up all over the front. You see them looking for vital space to make their empire. What dialogue do you have with them? You tell me. When one constantly claims and the other does not claim, the loser will be the one who will not claim. And unfortunately a government is regressing. It reminds me of government for the fairs. Why am I saying that? Why close the festivities, but you let the planes come without any control from England with increased coronary cases. Tell me your logic. We close Greek stores, book fairs, with you if you want to protect the Greek, but why do you bring people from England uncontrollablely? Tell me about it. At the same time diplomatic advisers of the leaders of Greece and Turkey are meeting. You know, all that points to something very simple. A fear in New Democracy of what's coming. I understand that because unpleasant developments are coming. But because we are talking about national issues and not just about economy, I will tell you something very simple. If you want to do something serious, you have to conduct a serious policy. What does that mean? Information of political leaders on the Prime Minister's intentions. Secret diplomacy? And how do you ask of us nationwide harmony and harmony when you make secret diplomacy and ask for immunity from us? You will not have this immunity. We can't give it to you, because we don't know what you're talking about. I think I know, I hear, I see. The question is to understand what mistakes you're making and you don't understand them. And because I said before about the slogan, listen to a slogan that was heard yesterday in Victoria Square. If it doesn't bother you, it bothers me. "Greek Leventis, we will throw the biggest party in your grave." Colleague, they called it the helmets, the bats. For any man if they said that, I'd be to them. For anyone! Because that's racism. When you say "Greek Leventis, in your grave we will throw the biggest party", this is incitement to violence and racism against the Greeks. It happened in Victoria Square yesterday. No one spoke. Why, gentlemen, don't you talk? Are you still afraid of them? Why don't you talk? Do you understand what these people said? And no one was arrested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u58	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u59	Yes, Mr. President. I'm closing up with what happened in Skopje. Rejoice with the Embassy Agreement, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Rejoice her! We're asking you for an examination to see why Kotzias signed, Minister. We have made the written request, we are entitled to it in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. New Democracy does not sign up to know why Macedonia was betrayed and some of Macedonia was betrayed here by the Prespecies Agreement. Elections took place. Who won, you know? The Albanians, if you understood it well. No Zafe won. Skopje is a hostage of Albanian intent, unfortunately for us, rather than being a hostage of Greek intents and perceptions to take the name back. They're called Vardharska. As they want to be said. And we have to do an examination to see who put Kotzia to sign this shameful Ambassadors' agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u60	We are now entering the list of speakers. Mr Athanasios Ljupi from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the particular circumstances facing us in recent months have forced us to turn our attention to public health and boost the economy. However, today's bill shows that the government does not leave culture to a second degree. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] The Centre for Culture and Creation is set up as a legal entity under private law of a non-profit nature. This makes use of the excellent architectural building of the hotel "Acropolis PALAS". Most of all, however, the way opens for strengthening cultural and artistic activities. The legal form chosen for ACROPOL ACROS, as it will be well known, is only not random. The administrative and financial autonomy of the Centre shall be ensured. The administration of ACROPOL has the power to move without the well-known bureaucratic obstacles of the public, while at the same time all actions are aimed at strengthening the public interest. This creates a very creative environment which will make a significant contribution to the general promotion of culture and to the promotion of the region. ACROPOL will provide support to cultural actors through funding and grants from national and Union programmes and through the provision of scholarships to creators. The aim is to communicate and interconnect cultural institutions with technological, research and financial institutions. A forum for strengthening contemporary cultural trends is to highlight the interaction of culture and technology. ACROPOL ACROS is also responsible for the international and internal promotion of artistic production and for providing incentives to new producers for staying and acting in our country. The new centre set up also assumes the role of public contact with the artistic events. It is achieved by organising reports within the building and the design of educational programs for children, families, people with disabilities. ACROPOL also seeks to play a decisive role in the regeneration of the area in which it is housed. It will be a point of contact for the residents of the centre of Athens through the operation of a refreshment and restaurant. Importantly, the board of directors will consist of five directly members, people of the artistic, spiritual, scientific world, legal, economists or persons with experience in the administration of organisations. The Director should have practically increased qualifications: he holds a GI with a postgraduate or doctoral qualification, at least five years of experience in the administration of public bodies and an excellent knowledge of two foreign languages. An international advisory committee shall be set up to acquire ACROOPOL ACROS. The aim of the Committee is to provide a link to the cooperation of Greek and foreign cultural actors and to attract investment. Of the other provisions of the bill, the extension to 30 September 2021 in property leases for cinemas and theatres is distinguished by offering them a fixed roof and even without an increase in the rent. Article 25 offers more powerful protection of intellectual property rights than insults on the Internet. It is a necessary arrangement that provides for rapid procedures for removal from the Internet of the content of copyright and financial penalties of five hundred to one thousand euros for every day of non-compliance. The overall project of "ACCOPOL" aims to develop the artistic sector, in addition to all others, to support the authors who have been seriously affected by the health and economic crisis. The objections of the Officer's Response to Trade in Art with this bill are, in my view, completely unfavourable. If artists are to rely on economics so that they do not live in poverty, not only can it not be considered commercialisation, but it should be the pursuit of all political factions. Any aid policy, if this is the method of supporting artists, does not invest in the future and cannot solve any problem in the industry. The prospects for growth in this area are great. We often overlook the dynamics of economic culture. The interconnection of artists with sources of funding will only have positive effects on the overall economy. To sum up, the vision for "ACROPOL" is to be a meeting point for the entire cultural and artistic world and also an open space to the general public. It is exactly what was missing from the cultural events until today. A place inside the heart of the city that will be next to all, creators and citizens. Culture is not far away, it is not for the few. We're all part of modern culture and we're shaping it. The need for artistic expression and cultural action exists in all of us. Greeks as bodies of a huge cultural heritage, we also have an obligation to continue artistic creation. American historian Will Duran said "Culture is not inherited. Every generation must learn and win him from the beginning." That is exactly what we are doing, that is, our duty to support creators and the progress of cultural production in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. Good morning, me too. We started with the list of speakers. Mr. Lippi was the first. We continue with SYRIZA and Mr. Christopher Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u63	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the draft law on ACROPOL is the first bill, if I'm not mistaken, for the modern culture that this government brings. It took a whole year for this first bill and indeed for an issue on which the previous government had made progress at a final stage. It also took a year in another area of modern culture to make the government self-evident, to authorize the SAR, losing a great deal of time in a serious field of copyright regulation. However, it took a few weeks from its assumption to decapitate the administration of the intellectual property organisation, to replace an active administration that exercised its supervisory role and to establish an administration colourless that is unable to exercise its regulatory role. In fact, the main core of its responsibilities has entrusted him to a mysterious nomadic committee led by a controversial person in terms of the conflict of interest he represents and of which we are also ignoring. I hope you don't ignore it, too. No place for a book policy. I can't see the new organism. There is no policy of supporting workers in culture that were clearly ignored during the pandemic. Really, why have collective management organisations not been financially strengthened with an additional grant, as all the countries of Europe have done? Why was it so difficult to strengthen Greek and Greek creators with a serious universal allowance as it was in all the countries of Europe? Moreover, no policy of public investment in the field of modern culture, no policy of transferring resources from the revenues of classical culture to the modern, no evaluation and an objective choice of the heads of cultural organizations where the policy of appointments from the respective ministers continues. And we have reached today's 'Acropolis'. Here too, it is really a question of how some people within the Ministry of Culture think to come up with such a legislative proposal. Instead of a pioneering institution for the support of independent artistic production without discrimination for all the arts with a look, ideas, actions aimed at public participation and production of contemporary culture, a close directorate with strong opacity and bypass mechanisms is established that will manage and control the so-called "block of artists". From neologies we go well. Instead of an institution at the centre of modern streams, which gives space to the thousands of creators to create and become the first public institution to support the world of creation, which is linked to regional cultural policy, to artistic education, to the creation of an arts council, with the book organisation we expect, with the collective organizations of young artists, with the collective management of all objects, a isolated island is formed with a view to training. Again training, again and again training and training at all lengths and back of government policy, from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Labour and from the Ministry of Culture to the Ministry of Shipping in the management and promotion of labour and business models. Instead, especially in this area, to avoid privatization, which is the slow death of original creation, since the musician has no place to play, the artist has no room to expose, the director has no room to put up a performance, the author has no way of publishing, through ACROPOL, the ghost of a director - "permanager", a small and trusted administrative board appointed by the Minister and on an amount of six and a half thousand square meters of staff, since obviously - and this is what is hidden in the contractors' bill and outsourcing. I'd like to give a parentheses here about this famous self-evident Public Relations Directorate, which comes back from the window to a bill. Here it tends to be a habit, the practice of worshiping in every bill. The Office of each Ministry is to intervene with the establishment of addresses, separate departments, departments and so on. I have said at some point that Mr. Gerapetti must come and tell us what the hell he is doing with this state at last. Instead of following the standard practice of constitutional control through bodies with the presidential decree, we have continuously introduced new independent departments, heads and so on. Unfortunately, a great opportunity is lost and it is lost because the political staff of the government - and here I will not abuse both the Minister of Culture, as well as all the officials who are moving around the Ministry - have nothing to do with modern culture. But we will have to abuse the Minister of Culture for something else very serious in the bill. It is the second part, which was not even in the consultation, but was suddenly introduced, and which constitutes the circumvention of the fundamental Article 46 of the 2002 Archaeological Law and concerns the access and use of monuments and sites. These are Articles 20 and 25 of the bill. While we have amended the archaeological law, o of the miracle, the Association of Greek Archaeologists is provoked by the hearing. And despite the fact that great issues have been and have arisen around this issue, silence of fish. The authorisation of the Greek Ministry of Culture and the payment of a fee to the Greek State, to the Archaeological Resources Fund, i.e., monuments that are not faithful imprints of the existing image, projects with smaller or larger differences in relation to the existing image that have been processed, can be freely used for economic, commercial or advertising purposes, shall be abolished all the regulatory framework that the previous government has created for matrices, models, erections, faithful copies, opening loopholes for the grant of all this great production to private individuals. In other words, we have granted rights and rights of goodwill which the Greek State has for the monuments of the country, which is of course a public good. We have a scandalous perforation of the country's most important public wealth from private interests with the Ministry of Culture removed from areas of its regulatory obligation. For the first time public responsibilities for controlling and regulating this space have been removed, in order to serve phenomena, obviously quasi-private interests. This is where the Minister has no excuse. He could copy the legal framework of the Acropolis Museum, which he rightly does not allow for the antiquities he administers. And I'm closing, Mr. President. At a time when Agia Sophia brought to the fore the great importance of the symbols of culture for the whole world, it is strange or at least strange that the Minister of Culture brings a provision that allows any company, for example, to take a picture of the Parthenon with the mobile, to process it and use it freely for advertising purposes legally, without having to seek permission and without paying fees. The government's provision follows on from the lightness with which the Prime Minister himself faced beforehand the reunification of the sculptures of the Parthenon talking about their lending, on the occasion of the 2021 celebrations, but also following on from the decision to dismantle Byzantine Thessaloniki at the metro station in Venizelos. This is a fact that has become a negative issue for the country around the world. I think that both of these articles should be withdrawn. I call on the New Democracy colleagues now to check these two articles and to help to withdraw and if there is a misunderstanding - and I accept the view of the rapporteur of the New Democracy - let us give the necessary time to both scientific bodies and Members, to all of us who are at least 'unfamiliar', to say so in order to clarify the situation. After all, today we are voting on 'ACROPOULS' and not on a vicious circumvention indirectly of the archaeological law. Let's see this in good faith, I repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Here comes Mr. George Mulkiotis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the Government of New Democracy says that the masterpiece art nouveau "ACCOPOL" building in Patisia will be home to an international body, "ACROPOL ACROS". In fact, as the Minister herself mentioned during the debate on the bill in committees, this bill should all be seen as a step towards strengthening artists and creators. So far, that's all right. We are keeping the debate as a centre for discussion that the state must create appropriate structures and this is to support artists in their work. I fear, however, that the New Democracy Government does not have a comprehensive planning for culture, but is 'cut' to draw up a road with good intentions that actually reproduce the working regime that reminds us of very difficult times. And we tell you this because your initiative is not enough to reverse the grim reality experienced by people of art and culture. Proof of your measures to date for a year, but also within the crisis of recent months, it has been insufficient in support of people in the field of art and culture. Furthermore, any support measures were finally taken with a very long delay. Our rapporteur, Mr Constantopoulos, has been mentioned in detail. Unfortunately, this reality, as it is and as I described it, refers to the truth, to a reality that is strong and grim. And as people experience this reality in the field of art and culture, ladies and gentlemen, it is also being experienced by workers in various other sectors. I am referring specifically to seasonal workers in food - tourism and to several employees in the 'Help at Home' programme, for which we as the Change Movement have tabled two amendments to the draft legislation under discussion, which we are trying to remove major injustices and inequality. The first amendment, number 397/6 of 2020, concerns seasonal workers in food - tourism. In particular, the provisions of Article 33(1) of Law No4690/2020 provide for the granting of monthly exceptional compensation to workers who were engaged in seasonal tourism and food operations and for whom there is no re-entry obligation during the current tourist season. However, on the basis of the above provisions and the Joint Ministerial Decision 23102/447/20, a significant number of seasonal employees in tourism and food without the right to re-entry throughout the territory is excluded from receiving a specific allowance, because unemployment benefit days exceed eighths. In fact, especially in those areas where the tourist season often lasts until November the days of employment of seasonal workers in tourism and food production are on average more than other tourist areas. Consequently, on the one hand, the duration of the regular unemployment benefit exceeds three months and five days, i.e. over the eighty days, on the other hand, payment of the unemployment benefit starts for many workers in December and reaches until April of the following year. Because of all this, the result is that in Rhodes, for example, six thousand seasonal workers and tourist workers - food - are entitled to subsidies only five hundred people. I repeat: six thousand people are entitled to the subsidy only five hundred people. Similar is the grim situation in Crete. That is why we are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment which, on the one hand, defines as a precondition for receiving an unemployment subsidy for at least eighty days and, on the other, for the time to take it to be extended until April 2020. The second amendment to which I refer, under number 398/7, to 15-7-2020, concerns workers in the 'House Help' programme. In particular, I would like to mention that in many municipalities throughout Greece, as well as in the Municipality of Kavala, the decisions of the monopolies were recognised either at first instance or at final stage and it was considered that, for employees working under fixed-term contracts under the "Help at Home" programme, contracts were falsely characterised as a fixed-term period, since in reality, all the above contracts constitute a single contract for each applicant for an indefinite period, given that their initial recruitment covered fixed-term and fixed-term needs. And that was well known to everyone, and only hypocritically did they not recognize it. Consequently, the start of the employment of these workers, as they have been judicially recognised - I repeat, they have been judicially recognised - and have been deemed final in time before 18-12-2018, i.e. the final date for the application of the provision of Law 4583/18, Article 91(6), which could lead to the classification of those persons under private law for an indefinite period in the new service of the ‘Help at home’ programme, which they constituted by an amendment to the Statute of their Internal Service. Therefore, in view of the risk that all these workers will remain, even if they have been judicially recognised as having been linked to legal persons and municipal undertakings with contracts of indefinite duration, outside permanent posts is extended by this amendment and it is proposed that the provision of Article 91(6) of Law 4583/18 should apply accordingly to them by setting up private individuals of unlimited duration in the same capacity as the organic unit set up by the municipalities concerned as an amendment to the Internal Service Agency for the exercise of this programme ‘Helpse at Home’. After that, Minister, we call on you in this bill to see the amendments, to see the validity of their words, and the government to see that at the present time it is specifically required to ensure both social cohesion and economic development in terms of justice and social solidarity, while listening and applying the final decisions of the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Boubas is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution and the plain of Serres with Kerkin and Ai - Lia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, art must not be allowed to enter limits, but art must be tebo, it must be characterized, it must be a rhythm above all. Buckovski had said that the intellectual is the one who says an easy thing probably in a difficult way. The artist presents a difficult way in a simple way. In other words, the artist simply speaks, speaks the language of society, speaks the language of the world and as it is expressed and interprets it accordingly, as he at least takes the art to interpret it. Art, however, cannot enter an industrialization. I mean, the artist when he makes a creation doesn't put on top of everything how much he's gonna sell it or what profit he's gonna make. Here, with "ACROPOL" as a centre of culture you are trying, Madam Minister, to put the artist on this "hawk". That is to say, to find the donor as well, so that he can fund his work. We cannot go to this logic of management against a historic building, as I have studied, six and a half thousand square meters, a seven-storey building built at the beginning of the last century. We have a lot to remember from this building. He hosted great personalities. It was in Athens' secular life. A great artist of an architect has decorated it and UNESCO in 1991 described it as a legacy, we would say, as an architectural building that should be left over time for the next generations. From that point on, however, if you see in the National Strategic Reference Framework, the so-called NRP 2007-2013, what it was like to fund the project, we didn't start well. The budget was a little more than EUR 14 million. It absorbed only 8.20,000 euros and after 2013, in 2016, it absorbed another 1 million. In other words, there was no complete absorption of the project. From there on, the question is not to lose the "satellite" of art, such as the municipal regional theatres, such as the artists who actually do great work in the region. Do not feel isolated and detached from this whole situation as it is created. There are the hagiographers I don't see talk about. There are the hagiography, our monasteries, this ecclesiastical world that expresses art over time. There's the shadow theater from the institutions. Karakiozis is a civilization, Karakiozis brought the Revolution. I mean, art has various aspects. I'll say what Buckovski also said, that the man who works with his hands is a worker, the man who works with his hands and his mind is a craftsman, the man who works with his mind, his hands and his heart is an artist. The artist can express the bad texts. Lucian had said "try, the preambles of art". The art 'caves'. If art doesn't cry with all that's happening around us, it can't be expressed. So we cannot go to a logic'show the sponsor to subscribe your work'. It's a historic building that tries to connect - I think - and the National Archaeological Museum in the future. However, the art must not be confined to and put into a sense as a legal person under private law, Minister. We must not get into this mold of private individuals who will fund the art. Art must remain free to express itself against the social strata. Without art we can't live. The very nature is art. It's what Victor Ugoh said, that the woman's flesh must show nature as marble, it must be marble. But art must bring marble up as flesh. That's the difference. That's what Victor Ugo said to show the value of art. Let's go a little now to all the events that are happening in the news of Agia Sophia, in Turkey's plan to crumble the religious symbol. For us in the Greek Solution it is a church, it is a milestone, it is a compass, it is a beacon of Christianity and Orthodoxy. Yesterday, the Turks lowered the license plates to which they were referred as a Museum. They tremble the bones of Justinian, Anthemius, Isidorus since 537 C.E. Today, then, we are talking about a project that has been implemented since the 1951 Menders era. Fetiyere is a mosque that took place in Istanbul and is the Pamakarist School. Over twenty congregations have become mosques in Istanbul. Four years ago, the Orthodox Church in Ayvali became a mosque and we passed it in the finest letters. Today, then, Agia Sophia is indeed being placed as a religious radiation against this multicultural Greece, and it is also being mentioned in the Vatican. I present to you today in the Minutes, because the Greek Solution will reveal and tell you everything, so that the Greek people can be informed, names and addresses. Just at Attica, ladies and gentlemen, we have over fifty mosques. It's the doctrine of proselytism, Tabliy. The largest mosque - I give you the address - has left the Vineyards and gone to Moschato. It is Piraeus and Cyprus 2, three thousand seats, one thousand eight hundred square meters - privately owned, please! - which was purchased EUR 2.5 million in 2007 by Saudi Arabia. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Thrace, we have three hundred twenty mosques. According to Article 14 of Lausanne, it corresponds to a mosque per four hundred Muslims. In Turkey, when it comes to the construction of the Mosques, it corresponds to a mosque of eight hundred and seventy-seven-six Turks. Do you realize what we're talking about? And then we say that Muslims don't have a place of prayer in Greece? Fifty-seven mosques exist! I'm filing them with addresses. It's Tubliy, Islam - Pakistan. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Boubas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is what the Greek society needs to know to see where we are walking and how many mosques we have in Lefkane. Four hundred mosques are in Greece! And we're talking about the Botanic? Imagine that what is Piraeus and Cyprus 2 is bigger and what you want to build in the Botanic. The evidence says that we had a Orthodox Christian population of 98.5% and with all those who have come now, we have reached 85%. And we're talking about the Botanic, ladies and gentlemen? I also want to say that we have another big issue. Apart from the fact that as a Greek Solution we have provided you with evidence, based on what Mr Kanellepoulou says, professor of the University of Heraklion, of the Gulf of Ali Aga and how the Turks infect the Mediterranean with heavy metals by dismantling ships and how they move illegal immigrants with these ships so that they don't get caught on the coasts of Asia Minor, we expect to see what answers and complaints can be made in Turkey that violates the Basel Treaty. In closing, I will talk about the Akuy nuclear reactor, which is preparing and producing 1200 MW each reactor, while having four reactors. Watch out now! While the European Parliament comes out and tells Turkey not to build it in this area, because it has given major earthquakes in the past and we will probably have a problem, as in Adana in 1998 we had an earthquake of 6.3 points on the Richter scale, Turks do not comply and build it. In fact, they speed up the procedures for the hearing. But let's go to the second black point, because the problem from Turkey comes with the nuclear, ladies and gentlemen, and Europe and NATO are deaf. Turkey has entered a programme of depletion of uranium and plutonium. Erdogan has come in contact with the Japanese Prime Minister and will build nuclear. By 2025 he is preparing to build two more nuclear reactors. In fact, as it is said, one of them will be in Thrace. What's the Department of Foreign Affairs doing? Does he have contact with this point? Because Turkey will have dangerous nuclear weapons with Akuyu. We'll talk about it, let's get together and shake down as Greeks. Because in the Greek Solution we say "First Greece, first the Greeks"! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u68	Be well, thank you. And now in Step is Salonica, Mr. Anna Happiness from New Democracy. Here, Mrs Evriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill comes to fill a gap. And what's that? While the cultural sector in our country contributes financially and creates new jobs in a diverse range of support, it does not, however, become more competitive and more resilient. This gap, therefore, in an important part of it, comes to cover the Centre for Culture and Creation "ACROPOL", because it is a development cultural institution with the aim of making the creative sector more resilient and more competitive and to achieve systematic international cooperation that will highlight Greece's modern creation. This bill comes at a time of crisis for his culture and his people, when the cultural and artistic creation industry was hit by a major economic blow, due to the health crisis of COVID -19. As a Member for this entire period I have been very closely involved in the cultural sector, both in the preparation of a public dialogue with representative associations in the sector and in the process of parliamentary scrutiny by putting forward proposals to support the government's work, because it is a sector with many employment specificities, which I know from my professional specialisation in labour law. At this point, you will allow me to make a general remark. The pandemic has given the floor to this sector to surface and to demonstrate weaknesses and arrhythmias in their occupational status. The relevant Ministries have tried to cover them during this period as far as possible. But now that the state has inspired these peculiarities, I think it is reasonable that the relevant ministers are already trying to cure these weaknesses and to shield the working rights of people of culture, because their majority are uncovered work. For example, day-to-day contracts dominate. So I come back to the bill, which consists of three axes. The first has a centre of interest for the members of the cultural and creative sectors themselves. And here we accept a criticism from SYRIZA, that artists are supposed to learn how to turn them from creators to entrepreneurs, that is to say, that we are enclosing them. That, you will allow me to say, it is wrong. And it is wrong, because the same rapporteur for the bill on the side of SYRIZA said at the first meeting of the committee that the cultural market in our country is currently literally maintained with artificial respiration. Shouldn't we do something about it? Because we do not want to have artists who fall, and there are funds that can be exploited. We want artists and creators who are decent, who work with dignity and do not look forward to any subsidy policy that some want to establish. We want people and professionals who step on their feet and have the support they deserve. All this, of course, provided - and I fully understand it - that an artist cannot spend his time or his mind on approaching programs, filing files and compiling technical bulletins. No way! And there must be a prerequisite to ensuring and strengthening his respect and freedom to express his art in the space and in the time that an artist needs. ACROPOL, with this bill and its institution "AKROPOL", allows and helps the artistic and creative world to get the resources that are available and which are exploited, at least at European Union level, by artists in other European countries. And you will allow me to demonstrate my words with an investigation. This investigation was carried out in 2017 by EUROSTAT. According to this survey, Greece has the second place in the importance of cultural heritage given by its inhabitants. However, the position of Greece in which each government's costs are reflected for cultural services is interesting. Unfortunately Greece is in the fourth place since the end, and this shows that the previous SYRIZA government did not make the expected and required investments in culture, although the Greeks show increased interest. Also, according to the same survey, Greece is very high in rankings with students studying in cultural-related schools. However, it is very low in the percentage of workers in professions related to culture and is also at the highest places, as far as the percentage of self-employed in the arts is concerned. I'm filing the report on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So these conclusions show the direction to be taken in the area of culture, which must also be in the direction of growth and job creation. So I return to the bill and say that on the first axis we highlight and systemize the international institution of the hospitality of artists and creators. This is also important because it concerns both Greek artists and foreign artists who want to come to Greece. And we want them to come to Greece, because we want them to work with our own artistic potential. A second axis of this bill has a centre of interest in modern Greek creation, the marriage of innovation and technology with culture and the development of programs around this relationship as well as the investigation and inclusion of innovative practices in the various forms of artistic creation. The third axis, which is the general good, aims to spread contemporary artistic creation not only through the organization of events and exhibitions but through interaction with the public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I also consider it particularly important that special social groups, children, families, over sixty-five years of age, people with mobility problems. And I would like to make a general reminder that we still need to give every opportunity to vulnerable social groups, people with disabilities, such as using Braille to describe exhibits in museums, but provision should also be made for older artists. The proposed draft law also provides for the establishment of the International Advisory Committee, which is not original, also applies elsewhere and has succeeded. Why don't we do it, too? I shall make a little mention - and I shall close - of Article 24 concerning the financial manager. I have heard from the SYRIZA rapporteur that consensus could be reached in this article - and indeed - because it is a requirement of all the artistic directors. The economic manager is essential, because artistic directors should not be involved in the administrative and financial aspects. And once a common assumption has been achieved that the financial manager must be placed to ensure that large sums of money are not lost, then on the part of the Ministry perhaps some clarifications could now be given for the operation and the status and procedures relating to the financial manager should be clarified. In conclusion, the aim of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is that the funds invested in the cultural and creative sectors should function multiplierly and to maximise the added value that this money can offer to the culture of the country and the development of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mrs Evans. Next up is the New Republic of Karditsa. First, it's Mrs. Silver Skondra and then Mr. Kotsos. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my indignation before I enter the bill and condemn Turkey's decision to turn Agia Sophia into a mosque, a provocative decision, because Agia Sophia is a milestone of Christian and cultural and therefore belongs to all of us throughout the world. On the bill now, ladies and gentlemen, culture is undoubtedly one of the most important chapters in our country. It is our national wealth for which we receive global admiration and so far ranks us in an adventurous position on the global cultural chess board. At the same time - and we cannot overlook it - it produces economic wealth, as well as wealthy jobs. Culture is the whole of the achievements on a people's historic path. Therefore, our cultural heritage is not limited to the monuments of ancient Hellenism, the philosophical wealth of Plato and Aristotle, the scientific wealth of Archimedes and Pythagoras, the poetic wealth and the ancient comedy of Aristophanes, Aeschlos and Euripides. There is also the living and recent cultural wealth. There are artists, poets, people of the arts who, over the past decades through their creations, have been the best ambassadors in our country and have rehearsed Greece and Hellenism around the globe. Elytis, Theodorakis, Seferis, Mouskouris, Kallas, Merkouris and many others who traveled, enchanted millions of people around the world with their creations. There is also the modern creative world that has been unrelentingly hit not only by the ten-year crisis but also by the pandemic lately. Today, the Ministry of Culture, with all this in mind, introduces the bill for the establishment of a new development cultural institution. The main objective of the government is to modernise the structures and use the available funds both of the ESRB and of the national budget to help artists and creators along the way. We are now living in a world where distances have come together, natural borders are becoming more and more and technological progress opens up new forms of human coexistence and expression. By creating supportive bodies that make the creative sector stronger and more competitive we help artists themselves to promote their works more easily to a larger audience. This is essentially the role that ACROPOL has to play in supporting artistic creation and helping the artistic and creative world, for example, gain access to European resources that are available but are not used to date. It will provide them with precisely those tools that will strengthen them to move their activities and that way they will remain distracted in their work and in their creation. ACROPOL's activity will be based on three axes: The first concerns the artists and creators who remain vulnerable until now and strive to respond to complex bureaucratic processes and deadlines, labour legislation and financial obligations. These are intended to help with the development of extroversion actions and training programmes. There is also the program “Erasmus+”, which is not limited to students, but also concerns artists and creators. But few are those who know how to take advantage of this up to now. So that changes. We seek the partnership and cooperation of Greek and foreign artists who for a certain time want to work together in order to create an artistic work - whether foreign artists come here in Greece or go abroad - and there are programs that can be exploited, which ensure their stay and what is needed. Accordingly, a digital and natural information hub is recommended to inform the creative and artistic community of all actions and possibilities, the sources of funding, new tools and a variety of other issues that concern them. The second axis concerns the support of modern Greek creation and the promotion of all emerging artistic forces. ACROPOL is called upon to help promote innovative practices that will encourage the promotion of different forms of artistic creation through modern means of expression. Finally, the third axis concerns the dissemination of contemporary artistic creation to the general public. Through the development and implementation of educational programs for the general public and for special social groups, the Ministry of Culture aims to revitalise the area of the National Archaeological Museum and create a new destination for culture and recreation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis does not make politics with words, vulnerabilities and superficial sensitivities. It passes on to acts, as with this bill brought by our Minister Lina Mendoni. Our programming commitment is being implemented to create a modern, flexible and model body for modern culture. From the point of view of Officerial Opposition, various reproach has been heard, mainly by comparing this draft law with the draft law proposed by the SYRIZA - ANEL government in 2019, but not by Parliament. It is worth noting that, unlike your original proposal, "ACROPOL" will not just be an exhibition area hosting events. We are creating an institutional instrument for financing the cultural and creative sectors. We practically support artists and creators. Also, with regard to its staff, the New Democracy is setting up a body with just seventeen staff when in your own projects more than twice as many employees were provided for. Similarly, the board of directors foresees it to be seven-fold and paid when ours is five-membered and unpaid. So everyone is aware of the difference between him and a few hundred of my own in an exhibition area by the creation of an active body of administrative and financial support for Greek artists. ACROPOL, whose resources do not bear the budget, but come from the ESRB, is a modern body that will offer a comprehensive package of services aimed at upgrading the entire area of cultural production and creation. Through this institution we put an end to an old and fragmented way of operating existing structures, we promote the upgrading of the cultural sector and artistic creation in an organised manner, because our culture deserves our practical and substantial support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. We are still in Carditsa and New Democracy and Mr. George Kotsos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that today, following the successful response of the epidemiological crisis in COVID -19, our country has entered a different orbit, and political change is visible throughout society. It is true, however, that this pandemic has also created a number of problems at both economic and social level. Surely the cultural sector is one of the sectors that has been hit hard. And here I note that we all recognise that culture is the person of Greece and through it we will highlight the new strong person of our country abroad. We should, with targeted actions, link the classical cultural heritage to Greece tomorrow, with Greece of extroversion. We will achieve this by supporting professionals in this area and by attracting investment in this sector, which in turn can bring more economic benefits and contribute to the further development of our economy. In this sense, therefore, the draft law also comes to work by creating the "Acropolis". It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that there should be a central public body that can play a structural role in Greek culture and in all the arts of music, visuals, photography, traditional arts, etc. and, furthermore, support natural and legal persons irrespective of legal form. Many artists and creators today cannot show their talent because they do not have the know-how - and it is not necessary to possess it - the organization that is needed and that is contrary to tax, bureaucratic, etc. In particular, these issues in the province are even more dangerous and much more difficult. It is therefore very important that people of culture, whether natural persons or clubs, who try to highlight their cultural creation, the customs and customs of local societies, that there is a central public body that can be at their side and provide them with the tools they need to support their work either by organising seminars or by bringing them in touch with other bodies through the dissemination of their work, in order to highlight this creation in the best possible way. They will also be able to know the funding programmes and prepare themselves sufficiently to claim equal positions with external actors. Here you will allow me to refer to three very specific examples of cultural creation that relate to my region, Karditsa, which, if you like, are examples of reference and which can be piloted for all of Greece and which, in particular, these examples and this cultural creation comes and starts through the local society itself. I am referring to the international traditional festival "Karaiskaki" which is celebrated every year on the occasion of the death of George Karaiskakis, the great hero of the Revolution, and it is also timely since this year we will celebrate the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution, where Karditsa, through the organization of the Association of Cultural Associations Karditsas, a secondary cultural institution, becomes the focus of international cultural activities and production, with the participation of many groups from around the world. A second example is the Panhellenic Amateur Theatre Festival where real people of art lovers, amateur actors, amateur triasarchs present their work for a week in Karditsa. Again, it is an initiative without central support, which comes to be funded by either the local government of the region or the local authorities themselves through the Association of Carditsa Cultural Associations. And third example is the Greek or if you want to take the form of the International Choir Choir Festival with the participation of children's choirs from all over Greece with schools, as well as from the Balkans. Now I believe that through ACROPOL these initiatives, local initiatives, which depend and are mainly supported by the people of the province, will find a supporter at central level. Because "AKROPOL" will even have the opportunity to develop an artist in a group's leading manager, creating skilled executives that combine artistic and administrative skills, which is excluded from this space. All over the world, ladies and gentlemen, technology operators are working with cultural organizations, with a view to creating new experiences for the public. In our country for the first time with "AKROPOL" it will be explored whether technology interacts with culture. We want, ladies and gentlemen, a modern society with sustainable economic development, which will involve all citizens in it. Here to note a dominant ideological difference with SYRIZA. We are obviously not in favour of state-owned cultural creation, which was blossoming mainly in the 1980s, when PASOK through the creation of many associations and their strong funding, associations that really had to present a project, but also some others that were "seals", tried in essence to make infiltration into society and created a pathogen around the cultural movement. We support cultural production, encourage initiatives and actions and facilitate their dissemination in society. Because it is our aim that no citizen should be excluded from the actions of culture. And I think, Minister, we'll make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too, for your time. Sir, with all the letters chapters. The next four speakers have a woman's perfume only very much SYRIZA. Mrs. Fotini Pipili is called to Step by New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u75	Madam Minister, I refer to you personally and to Mr. Yatromanolakis because I have many reasons to congratulate you, regardless of whether I am now a MP or not, as an Athenia that I think you are living up to the memories of all of you, but all of the western, time-destructed, Athens, these glamorous districts that have always been the "Acropolis PALAS" of the family of Charadontis. I give a parentheses: There are many intellectuals and cultures who have pointed out to me that you poorly removed "PALAS" from the name "ACROPOULOS". I told them, of course, that we would have some shame - I suspect - so I said 'children, let's leave it better'. Patisia, in fact, regains its jewel, Patisia, which is the unique and largest bulevard in all Athens, which from Saint Melletios sees for a long time the Parthenon, the Acropolis. The building of "ACROPOL PALAS" has been declared since 1991 as one of the most important art nouveau samples in Europe, the work of Sotiris Mayas, which is now hosted at the National Gallery. I am very grateful to Mr Constantopoulos, Member of Parliament, for giving us time, and to see how important it is as a place and how important it is with the choice of the Ministry of Culture that this kind of body should be. Let me say to you one thing: "ACROPOL PALAS" worldwide is known by the famous unique filming on a film of thirty-five seconds from Dutch journalist Albert Kuron - which we oldest of us met - who, as the tenant of the corner room, shot the tank invasion. I propose, Minister, and Mr. Doctor, that he be placed in the area of the entrance to "Acropolis" of the Ministry of Culture, a commemorative plaque and possibly a digital imaging of this shocking event.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u76	In any case, there'll be the story of the building.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u77	Good! No, I talked to my colleague, the journalist. I'm so glad, though. A legal person is therefore created. We have heard from colleagues in the House what exactly it will help and how advanced it is. I will dwell on the fact that the permanent staff are sixteen people, on the New Democracy Government, while in the SYRIZA bill it was 50% higher, because the members of the board of directors and the scientific board would be unpaid, while in Mrs Zorba's bill it would be paid. We'll talk about this so we can get a few things straight. Reinforcement of professionals with skills, competences, know-how and so forth, as well as the development of the culture common, the automatic development. And here I stand in particular on this intelligent idea that you have as a ministry surrounded by the ground floor, so the world that passes will see a living symbol of civilization. Why, not forget, there is the culture of everyday life that is missing too much from Athens. However, we have here reactions from colleagues, particularly from SYRIZA and Mera25, that suddenly artists are as if they were aliens, that is, they are free, so nothing should be imposed on them. I fear that you underestimate and devalue the relationship between artist and audience, because, you know, society has an opinion when it pays from the pocket of this kind of activity. It has a view from synergy logic that there are others who are more equal than others. So take care of that. Let's go on the subject of film licensing. World monuments are Greek monuments, a global monument is the Parthenon and as a global monument we cannot prevent the world community from being able to capture the unique scenes of the world treasure. You're talking about sponsorships and that artists don't want prostates. But I don't know either singer or singer or actor or artist or painter who doesn't have at least sponsors or beer or refreshments. We're not talking about archaeological sites. We also know tragic results from various theatres, especially theatres, which have been economically destroyed - they are well known - because they did not have exactly the answer how. So the body comes to tell them "Hey, don't do the theater, because you can't do it." And I go to the main thing that concerns me. I see reactions to the protection of ancient monuments. Notably, the Parthenon is not at risk from 'COCA COLA', but is disfellowshiped by the JRC and other forces. That's to know what we're saying about the banners on the Parthenon that no artist...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Comrade, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u79	We don't have a dialogue, I tell you real facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u80	Let her finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u81	No artist of all these free and sensitive buildings in Plaka, Lela Karagiannis, painted in Kostis Palamas, has ever been an outraged by the vandalism of monuments, archaeological sites, all the buildings of the Ministry of Culture in Plaka. Also, they never cried for the victims of MARFIN, who were in a historic building. We hear more tragic. But the main thing: tell me you - unfortunately my Prider had a problem - should not be ashamed of the guild of the various organized artists, especially the High School of Fine Arts for this disgrace at the Sikaridion plant - I do not remember now - the textileworks that have been transformed years ago by the School of Fine Arts and which has this appalling appearance for five years in Piraeus 256? That is why sensitives in general of the independent spiritual and artistic space never spoke. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much. I've been spoiled by Mrs. Vetta, who's been suffocating into the Chamber. He needs breath. Mr. Skourrow will give it to her, who will precede her. But first we will give Mrs. Sunday Malama the floor from SYRIZA and the beautiful Halkidiki, which she doesn't have like Halkidiki. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I will not comment on my colleague's speech. I think that it will be posted online and that will be judged by fellow artists. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill for the development of the building of ACROPOL and for the creation of a body for contemporary art is a mile from our perspective on this matter. The bill we are debating today has a completely different strategic direction than the draft law that SYRIZA had put into public consultation in April 2019. We envisioned "AKROPOL", as a node of contemporary art and creativity, as an area of openness and inspiration and strengthening of this production, while, unfortunately, you are visionary as a centre for vocational training. Our direction was to promote applied arts and artistic arts, their union with the social space and with the city area. Your aim is to provide know-how for resources, networking with financial institutions and the promotion of managers in the field of cultural management. And the question that arises from this differentiated targeting is double. The first relates to the art itself and its incontinuous commercialization and the second to the higher education of our country. As far as your commercialized view of art is concerned, we do not need to say anything, because the positions of the New Democracy are known. But by turning "ACCOPOL" into a KEK, what exactly do you say to the graduates of the departments of Greek and foreign universities involved in the management of cultural goods? That their knowledge is useless? That you know better? That an organization with twenty-seven people will, by magic, bring money out of nowhere in the field of contemporary art? The government, therefore, behind this neoliberal phrase that it chose for this bill hides the absence of a plan for art and culture in general. The world of culture spends its darkest days in history in the past year. The orchestras have been silenced, the dances have stopped, the songs have been silent and the creation has been perpetrated. The ancient monuments have been submerged in deportation and in darkness. And you, in all this zombie, claim that you possess the management secret to make money out of Greek culture. Then why has our culture collapsed for a year? Why have his people been left at the mercy of luck in general? By doing "ACROPOULS" training centre that will share voucher, how exactly will you contribute to supporting the country that is currently spending these difficult days? ACROPOL is your bridge of Arta. At the beginning of your term you envisioned "ACROPOL" as a follow-up to the Archaeological Museum. Then you wanted to subjugate it. Finally, you choose to make it a technical office to find funding. But, and in that, we are sure that you will fail, because no matter how much the government claims to know the market, all it has achieved is to immerse it and destroy all those who are active in the business issues of art. After all, your policy on culture has been a total failure for a year. From your decisions on the secondment of antiquities to Venizelos in Thessaloniki, up to the abandonment picture of the Acropolis and all the archaeological walk of Athens, your work in culture does not, Mrs. Minister, nor your choice in Philippi, nor the unacceptable picture of abandoning hundreds of archaeological sites throughout the country, nor of course your policy on the intellectual rights of artists, who have been forced to go there. All you have to remember so far by your Government is the style of power and your indifference to artists, as good time now. With regard to the other issues of the bill, we consider it unacceptable the wording of Article 20 by which anyone who can now draw an ancient monument and remind you that in October 2019, when the “COCA COLA” had sketched the Parthenon on her bottle, the Minister had accused SYRIZA that it was his fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u84	With your permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u85	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u86	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u87	Today the Minister legislates for the discharge of all commitments made by the monument rather than imaging. So what's the printing, then? The bill tells us itself. Printing, you tell us in the bill, has as the starting point the existing image of the monument, but it goes beyond creatively, prosthetics, extractively or in any other way. If that's not the picture of the sketch in the 'COCA COLA' bottle, then what is it? I would like to refer here to a major issue of topicality, that of the conversion of Agia Sophia into a mosque. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u88	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u89	It is clear that we are all condemning the reform of the Turkish Government and expressing our full commitment to the attempt to institutionalise the issue in order to prevent these plans. But the issue that relates to our country's Ministry of Culture is more specific. Greece over the past five years has worked very methodically on strengthening cultural diplomacy. This cultural diplomacy does not seem to be being mobilised by the relevant Minister. Two years ago, I would remind you, we had hosted the forum of ancient civilizations in Athens, where we had called ten countries, including the countries of the Muslim world. At that time, we agreed to strengthen culture as a factor in promoting dialogue in relation to the protection of global monuments. Unfortunately, apart from an ex post announcement from the Ministry of Culture, there does not appear to be anyone - anyone - who is planning to internationalise the attempt to protect the monument of Agia Sophia. Indeed, in a relevant public announcement of the Association of Greek Archaeologists we learn that Turkey has carved the same fate for the Agia Sophia of Banking, as well as for the Agia Sophia of Vizyi, in which its transformation into a mosque has brought enormous damage. So you must immediately see your strategy and activate cultural diplomacy, as should the House and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs activate religious diplomacy. And your "blue" mayors to activate the diplomacy of the cities, because these movements must do rather than post your MPs graphic krone with bayonets and liondufeka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Malama. Mr. Panagiotis Syriza has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me a comment starting. At the moment, of course, the New Democracy headquarters are empty - they are a Member of Parliament from what I see here - but before some Members came and spoke and left, they objected to which they could really have received answers if they were following the work of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, where they did not come to discuss and support this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in the bill we are debating today, it could be said that two different worlds actually conflict. One is the world of creation, cooperation, support for contemporary independent artistic production, the world of research, exchange of views and artistic experiences. This is the world that SYRIZA proposed in his own "Acropolis" bill, which he did not have to vote for because of elections. In this world, there are also the bodies of artists who participated in the processes of the Committee on Morphic Affairs. Some of these have been thanked by the Minister. Of course, all of these have disagreed and still today we have posted on social media, such as the posting of the responsible Mr Lentaris of SUPPPORT ART WORKERS, who thanked us, but said: let us not forget, we are opposed to this bill. The other world, now, is that of the neoliberal concept, where everything is valued with profit and all it needs to do is act like a tank of artists under the control of ambitious state managers. In other words, the government comes to train artists to financially manage their artistic existence and work. This is the world of government. However, in their fortification to set up like - like a bill, no one told them that what is being envisioned is already happening. Really? Do they have that vision for this "Acropolis"? Is there no other content on their proposal? Artists have always been a manager of themselves. We have said this too many times and we know it from personal experience. However, dealing with artists and their problems, especially during the pandemic period, was empirically unacceptable and derogatory by the Mitsotakis Government. You shared millions, direct assignments to artists and businesses, without accepting public requests from anyone who would like to apply for support with his own proposal, something like the list "Metsotakis - Petsa" for media. You have left over 12 000 creators outside of the support measures - we have told you, we have asked you questions, you know - even though you have forced them to be unintentional unemployment. Although thousands of artists are on the verge of poverty, you still do not get a single support measure. Artists are on the street every day and claim, as yesterday afternoon, but you don't sweat your ears. I could say other examples. Time is, however, limited. You are therefore bringing in a bill of absolutely empty content. What's he legislating for? Appointments. Appointment of a Board of Directors, appointment of an international commission, appointment of an official without an AEP, secondments of an official. Seventeen we want, thirty-two said SYRIZA. Retraining of officials from the general public sector. Appointment, not a proclamation for the director. Allergy is with the filling of public responsibilities transparently. Your regular appointment of your people behind closed doors, armies of blue children in public, crowded in the middle of a coronary. But this empty draft law was set up to hide sinful provisions that came last minute. You dare, therefore, abolish the licence from the Ministry of Culture and the payment of an end to the public, to the Archaeological Resources Fund, for monuments that are not track tracks of the existing image of the monument. I'll testify photos here. When this was done in the government of SYRIZA, not only was advertising banned - and this was done - but the Minister, Mrs Zorba, was ordered to be known who gave this permission. Because the Minister didn't give it. The authority of SYRIZA, which was on the last floor of the Ministry, did not give it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u92	He made a decision without a legal opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u93	This empty draft law, then, brings more worse. Remove the regulatory framework and open the way for private individuals to produce and trade faithful copies, the ones that are sold most and cost the buyer more expensive. You grant private individuals, that is, rights and goodwill from public rights on the monuments of the country. Tell us clearly, with a yes or no, will you give us the opportunity to produce and sell faithful copies of private individuals? Does he lose public resources?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u94	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u95	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u96	Why do you have so much anxiety, Mrs. Mendoni?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Darkdog, don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u98	Don't be anxious. Don't interrupt me, Mrs. Mendoni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u99	I'm not nervous. You asked for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Skoulak, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u101	Don't be so anxious. Don't be so upset. Learn to operate democratically, learn to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u102	Not from you, Mr. Darkness...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u103	You're not in your ministry's office, Mrs. Mendoni, and we're not your employees. We are elected MPs and must not be interrupted! We're not your employees!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Wormhole, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u105	You wanted an answer. I gave you an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u106	Don't interrupt him, Minister. Keep going, Mr. Darkness, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u107	It loses public resources, as decided by the General Accounting Office of the State, as well as by the Ministry's evaluation committee. Of course, they do not exactly determine the public's damage because they do not yet know the number of sales. There goes the "possibly", from which the Minister is trying to get hooked, that he does not lose for sure. The private, ladies and gentlemen, any fees and fees to pay to the Archaeological Resources Fund, will win multiples. These multiples are lost by the public, namely the Greek people. You say that culture must be self-financed, you deprive him of the money it can bring to the public by its right to produce and sell faithful copies of our cultural wealth. You did not accept the involvement of the archaeologists, who yesterday, I will present it - degrade your bill. That's too bad. From your archaeology we have reached your total indifference to culture, ancient and modern. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, none of your twenty-eight Members who participate in the Committee on Educational Affairs spoke in three meetings to support your bill. Anemic and your current participation as a parliamentary group of fifty-eight Members. We understand your difficult position and we understand you. Let me tell you something else. You brought some correction. We accept it and we will vote in favour of it. It is the extension of the concession from twenty-nine years back to nine years for the building of the Museum of Contemporary Art. However, Article 4 cannot be accepted and we cannot vote against it because it adds a representative of the workers to the board of directors - it is in the right direction - but our refusal focuses on the fact that the other members of the board of directors do not have to - even as a quota - some artists, but whoever the minister wants. Why such an allergy to artists? Or aren't there so many willing ones? I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u108	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u109	I will finish and I would have finished if the Minister let me do my job as it should. Madam Minister, for a year now, you haven't fallen into any of your announcements. Everything goes later and later and later: human riding, unification of spaces. For a year, everything will be consolidated, and still as it was, and much more. You brought us a bill that puts a tombstone on the expectations of the artistic world. You use "AKROPOL" as a smokescreen for your real goal, which is the sale to private individuals of the Parthenon and all other historical symbols of our country. And, indeed, at what juncture? The day the Agia Sophia, the universal symbol of civilization, is brutally afflicted, is dealt with with with unprecedented barbarism. Really, the thoughts from Macedonian what did you do with them? Did you throw them away? Ladies and gentlemen, the next progressive government will deliver "AKROPOL" to artists and, of course, will defend the public's resources resulting from the management of our precious heritage. You came with hollow words to build. But a year you've been tearing down, tearing down, tearing down. You won't go on long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. We will continue with Mrs. Anastasia Gara, MP SYRIZA, from the Halloween of Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture, I could only begin my speech by expressing my deep grief and anger about the appalling, paranoid decision by the Turkish President to turn the Holy Church of Agia Sophia into a mosque. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what right does one have to insult a unique monument of universal cultural heritage, a symbol of culture and Christianity of the world? What right is affected by the character and history of St. Sophia? With what courage can one hide these unique frescoes, which tells the art, history and violence that has been practiced in the peoples and in the monument itself over the centuries? With what courage to drown, to encapsulate the awe caused by the inhabited earth by Agia Sophia? I also wonder: What attitude of the Greek Government not only to this appalling decision but also to the whole increasing Turkish provocation? Is it possible for the Greek state to answer all of this to be the secret diplomacy and secret meetings with Turkey and Germany, which the House and the opposition parties are informed by statements from political people from foreign countries? What action has the Ministry of Culture taken? What strategy is being pursued? Ladies and gentlemen, the policy - and in particular foreign policy - requires provision. It is a strong element of foreign policy that predicts. It requires the prediction of each other's moves, in order to create the field to prevent aggressive movements. Unfortunately, the Government of New Democracy is unable to analyse, to "transfer" Turkish foreign policy, so that it runs behind the events, while respecting a retreat and foreign attitude many times. He initially faced Erdogan as isolated. The facts, however, do not prove it. The illegal Turkish pact, the tooling and direction of refugees at the border, the few ten measures by Mr. Dendias, the "ORUCS REYIOS" which was taken by the wind and reached Crete, our exclusion from international discussions and many other facts prove a problematic attitude of the Greek Government in foreign policy. Let us remember that members of the government, such as the Deputy Foreign Minister of our country, made statements only one day before the Turkish President announced the conversion of Agia Sophia into a mosque and said he would not dare do so. That's how well Erdogan was read! I also remind you of Mr Mitsotakis' conversation with Erdogan ten days ago, after the intention of converting to a mosque from the Turkish side had been announced. Was the Prime Minister given the question of Agia Sophia by force? Informing us is not there, but evolution is causing many questions. That is why we are insisting on setting up a national front, which will exercise a multi-dimensional foreign policy of alliances, as well as imposing sanctions on Turkey. If it's not the time, when is it? With regard to this bill, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for all artists and people of culture the bill is a faithful follow-up to the disastrous choices of the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture during the health crisis. It doesn't surprise us. It is not enough that the Mitsotakis Government at the time of the crisis, after imposing universal bans, left to the mercy of the hunger artists, with poor support measures - the few, and, finally, money provided, shared with opaqueness and the creation of a climate of dissociation among artists - today the Minister of Culture brings a bill on "AKROPOL" that talks about the training of artists, market issues, marketing workshops, on how to handle NSA programmes and teletraining. It transforms artistic creation into a marketable product and does not promote art, but mainly management. It's all they care about. The question, of course, is what it is all about art and culture. The answer is simple: As far as teletext courses were concerned, Mr. Brutsis's "scoil" training courses were concerned with the strengthening of new scientists to deal with the current crisis. The only thing that is finally served is the commercialisation of art. At the same time, it is another bill of New Democracy at the heart of the government's constant tactics since the government took over rule, for over a year. SYRIZA, on the other hand, has a completely different proposal for the operation of "Acropolis" as a centre for strengthening arts and culture. A public institution, an artistic node that embraces arts and artists and strengthens the independent artistic scene, modern artistic creation. Of course, I cannot comment on Article 20 in the second part of the bill, which is obviously the main reason for this bill. That's the target. This article therefore allows the use of the display of a monument for commercial reasons. For example, any company can take a picture of the Parthenon or any other historical monument and then place it in a package or a product and trade it. In other words, you grant the rights and goodwill of our country's monuments and, without conditions, without permission. In other words, you trade the glory of our ancestors, the selfishness of our cultural heritage. The irony, however, is that this provision comes in the days when the value of the monument of Agia Sophia is affected at its symbolic level. Finally, Minister, I would like to ask two topical questions concerning thousands of our fellow citizens. The Government has decided to prohibit the conduct of events and celebrations for health reasons and correctly. What support measures will you take for the thousands of musicians, artists and technicians employed in them? You know, and we all know that there are people who come from this job and have no other income. Have you provided for these professionals or are they invisible to the government, like thousands of other workers? Furthermore, it would be of great interest to inform us of what you are planning to do and how you are thinking of helping and strengthening the thousands of cultural clubs, which are the organisers of these events, clubs with great work and contribution to culture and tradition, which give life mainly to our region, clubs covering their expenses for their operation and research from the revenues of these events and fairs. Unfortunately, Minister, you are not concerned with these topical issues, these issues of the sustainability of artists. You have taken no initiative but you are prioritising a bill that essentially hides the commercialisation of our historical monuments, art and culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. From Evro to Kozani and Mrs. Kallipe Vetta from SYRIZA. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister - which is missing - I cannot comment on how alone you have been in defending this bill in its examination of the committee's four meetings. Apart from the majority rapporteur, there was no one colleague of the New Democracy to talk about it. Archaeologists were unnecessarily excluded from the committee, in order not to place themselves in the second part of the bill, which you brought us without public consultation, while the bodies of contemporary culture that were invited to committee were critical of it, were critical of your choice to convert the history of "AKROPOL" to a specific educational and training centre of artists. This is because it fails to be a lung of free artistic expression and creativity, as the respective SYRIZA bill and a breath for modern culture, as was the vision of the artistic world, were. Do you really remember anything to the Minister on the date 9 January 2012, when he was Secretary General at the Ministry of Culture? It was the day the historian "ACCOPOL" was wrapped in the flames for the second time in a few months, while his restoration work was done. It was when his balconies were slain, those balconies from which the unique historical documentary was taken for the attack of the Hunting Government tank at the Polytechnic, internationally tearing down the propaganda of the junta's business centre set up in another room "AKROPOL" to defuse the uprising. These are the symbols that the beautiful "Acropolis" brings. And it's a shame. He shouldn't deserve to get caught in a narrow-minded idea, on a doorstep little, he doesn't deserve to become a vision and a balcony of art and ideas, open to the world, a humble fund manager and programs. Nor, of course, is it worth the unique and shining exhibits of the National Archaeological Museum to be subjugated, just for some more contractors. Also, it is not worth the Ministry of Culture of the country missing from the design and approvals required for the "big walk" in the historic center of Athens. And it certainly isn't worth the Acropolis and the Sacred Rock to be unaccessable this year for people with disabilities, because you fell out in every schedule for the elevator in the midst of private individuals, complaints and shameful scaffolding, exposing the country internationally. No design anywhere. Artists and workers in culture are in total despair, without any support, especially now, and our cultural heritage is at risk. It looks like you don't even understand as a government that culture is everywhere and you're trying to bring him to your measure. You destroy unique antiquities - gifts for the country and co-chairman. Bring in the Archaeological Service. You are late to react to St. Wisdom. You seek recklessly the borrowing of the stolen sculptures of the Parthenon and now enter without consultation, without consciousness and without respect for any amendment of the archaeological law, allowing every private and private company the intruding and shameful commercialisation of the monuments of the country. Articles 20 and 25 abolish the authorisation of the Ministry of Culture and the payment of a fee to the Greek State, to the TAP, for simple copies and illustrations of monuments that are not faithful to their existing situation. Older photographs, designs with smaller or larger differences compared to the existing situation, photographs of monuments that have undergone some treatment can be freely used for economic, commercial or advertising purposes. Furthermore, the regulatory framework is abolished and the courier opens for the provision to individuals of even the production and marketing of faithful copies and molds, and even for the minimum use of displays requiring authorisation and payment of fees, criminal provisions have been removed if they are used for profit, contrary to what is stated in the explanatory statement, and have remained only on accurate copies. Madam Minister, where is your interest in the brand name of monuments, which you supposedly upgraded, as you and the Prime Minister said in government's programming statements a year ago? Do you think you will be able to do this by circumventing this article, which in fact safeguards the economic and moral rights of the Greek public on the monuments of the country? By consciously institutionalising how a private person - even for profit - will legally avoid the licensing and payment of anticipated fees to the public? What right are you doing this with? By what command do you humiliate the public property, the heritage, the pride of the Greek people? Even the smaller private company knows to better safeguard its interests and rights, unlike the government of the country, who chooses to legislate so that the country itself loses them. In other words, the ACROPOL building will be housed - I imagine - and a seller of the ACF. Legislation to develop a parasitic economy, to sell freely, without license and fees, competing products, i.e. slightly altered copies, monument caricatures and supposedly inspired monuments in digital applications. Although both the archaeologists and the other workers of the Ministry of Culture are against all the arguments put forward by Ms. Mendoni on the contrary, she insists on the unacceptable regulation, while everyone is asking for her withdrawal from the public. And the distortion of the truth that is being attempted is unprecedented. It remains, to date, in characterisations of slash and unproof claims, such as yesterday in committee, but also as a moment ago, to charge SYRIZA even the fact that the "COCA COLA" depicted monuments of the country last summer on its product labels. Of course, Mrs Mendoni, you have not even presented to a parliamentary question that I made to you in October 2019 any relevant permission issued by the Minister of SYRIZA, as you say, for this use. But we, Mr President, must put the following to the Minutes in order to stop this falsehood at last. The first document I will shortly be tabling is the urgent mandate of the former Minister of Culture, Ms.Mursini Zorba, on 26-6-2019, to the relevant Directorates-General, as soon as this use has been denounced, where urgent action and an investigation into the case and its handling by the services involved of the Ministry, in view of defending the interests of the Greek State. The second document I will submit, dated 4-7-2019, was sent as a reply from the Ministry's Directorate-General for Restoration, where it is noted that no request has been made for the advertising campaign ‘COCA COLA’, no authorisation or licence has been granted for the commercial exploitation of monuments and the company has not paid the fees required for the TIP, in accordance with Article 46 of Law 3028/2002. In view of the fact that the document arrived at the Minister's office on the last working day before the elections, it would indeed be interesting, Minister, to hear what action the Minister herself has taken to ensure that legality is respected. The truth is obvious: SYRIZA protected both the moral and the economic rights of the Greek public and the monuments of the country, while the Government of New Democracy is now coming to legislate to make their image, their status and the identity of the market for all exploitation and use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too. There is a reason for that, Madam President, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. In any case, I intended to speak and say it all at the end, after listening to what is being said, but to remind me of the dates a little. In August 2018 - I said it yesterday - if I'm not mistaken, it was a SYRIZA government. In August 2018, a known company of refreshments, the ‘COCA COLA’, presented a souvenir, which was directly related to the Palace of Knossos, in Acropolis. The competent authority has decided that no authorisation is required for such use. In 2018, in August, the political leadership of SYRIZA did not react at all. And he didn't react then. In November 2018, the same company addressed the Department of Antiquities of Athens, in order to request a license for a free design composition for its advertising. In November 2018, he was again a SYRIZA government. We have arrived on the last working day before the elections to ask the Minister for his request, because he has requested an unauthorised service and has received a reply from an unauthorised agency and not from the competent authority. Because, obviously, on the last working day before the elections, it had to do many other jobs, annul decisions and refer officials to disciplinary boards. So let's see things in turn. Mrs Zorba did not give her permission for 'COCA COLA' on her own signature. And he gave what you're saying to investigate who gave permission. And what came out of the investigation of the competent agency? That the services were right to permit, because the existing provision allowed it, that is to say what you say we are being destroyed and for which you are defending it. And what did Mrs. Zorba do then? It issued, without legal authority, a ministerial decision to establish a ban, justifying its crowns. And then what happened? The ministerial decision, because it was out of mandate, was annulled. And it was annulled by the Legal Council of the State. Just so we can put things in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is very interesting, because it is a bill in which the differences in perspective between conservative and progressive are manifested with great vigour. It concerns this view, this approach to the major theme of culture. Perhaps it is no coincidence that the majority rapporteur is Mr Loverdos, an open preacher of laissez-faire, laissez-passer, who came and analysed the approach of the party of the government majority to how they perceive the function of culture. For the majority, therefore, the dimension of culture is primarily economic. For us it is mainly creative. For you of the majority are cost-effective relationships. For us culture is an element of the human being. So that is the point, that is the starting point from which we are starting to shape our policy and you to draw up your proposal. We are talking today about "ACCROPOL", which is a preserved work of art and as a work of art by definition has symbolisms and content. I would remind you, for those of this House who are clearing up a book, that there is always a dialectical relationship of form and content. Of course, content breaks the form, goes beyond it, but always in a relationship with it. In this building, "AKROPOL", you can't do an IEK training artists. It's irritating. It's an insult. The work of art is to open streets, to be ahead of his time, but always in relation to it. Artists are not managers. Artists are creators. What is essentially aimed at the bill you are bringing us to discuss at the National Representation is to give a pedestrian, a management view of art, to dehydrate it from the revolutionary, from the progressive, from its deep humanist content, as if it were a management of any product. First of all, the law itself, half, comes without consultation and that is an indication of how you deal with the issue of good legislation. Enter opaque funding criteria for artistic groups and artists. The glory of the Pecha - Mitsotakis list seems to cross the government project horizontally and started by the media, because it is precisely the flagship of communication, and it will reach civilization as well. It is no coincidence that cultural actors are across the street. Archaeologists were not invited to the committee which examined the bill, on the pretext that they were not concerned, and Article 20 precisely speaks of the ancient heritage. Who are you going to make fun of? What is bothering you and what you find is an obstacle, even verbally and in a statement in your plans, do you exclude it from the public debate? If it does not concern the archaeologists a major issue of cultural policy and the management of the ancient Greek heritage, who is at last concerned? We understand your approach. Is the concession, for example, to private individuals of the construction and sale of copies of antiquities within your goals? You have already stated, by interrupting our rapporteur, a 'no'. Will you have noble kindness and political obligation to respond to the National Representation if, through this way, you are also targeting this part to give it to individuals? Mr Garcia Arias said earlier that there is a loss of revenue. How we don't know, 'cause we don't know exactly how much items they'll be sold. But the initiative itself and the choice itself are condemned, because it takes funds away from the cultural section, which on the one hand you want it to be self-financed and, on the other hand, condemns it to a suffocation by limiting these minimum resources. Now see how the irony of history comes and today we are talking under the state and under the pressure of Erdogan's unspeakable intervention in the monument of Saint Sofia. You understand what symbolism and gravity the monuments and especially the monuments on the Greek territory are. All your legislation, all your treatments start from the logic that culture brings money. That's not the sovereign. Others are the productive activities that bring money. Culture is creation. But this for you is extremely difficult to see in the neoliberal poetry that holds you. I'm hanging up. As a member of Drama, Minister, I find it very positive that the Small Length Festival of Drama should be financed at one and a half million. It was a funding that opened with a SYRIZA government. You completed it. You were right to believe it. If the pandemic in mid-September allows us, you'll be in Drama, with the best for the Small Length Film Festival. We should all be healthy. And that's where we're waiting to have a dramatic society. What are we doing with the Perdika Smoking Warehouse, what is going on with the Film School, which for a year and despite all the agreements we have made in public, we have no answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u118	We, Mr Xanthopoulou, and for the maintenance of time. And since the reason for artists, and rightly so, has the reason for a successful Larissa, Ms. Anna Vaguena from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad Mr. Loverdos has returned to the Chamber, because I'm going to report to you, Mr. Loverdos. I would like to refer to what you said in your report, yesterday's speech as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, concerning artists involved in politics and militant art. You said that I would not even like artists to engage in politics. Dear Mr. Loverdos, every act of ours is political. Our attitude to life is political. Artists are entitled, like all citizens, to participate actively in politics. Their lives and their work are intertwined. He doesn't know. It contains each other. Those who have to be careful, in my view, in dealing with the public-professional artists are others. For example, I in this Chamber often received insults from colleagues of your government's "do not speak here, it is not a theatre". It's like the theater's a disgrace. No, gentlemen. It is an honor to be an actor of the Greek theatre, as is my honour to be a member of the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And what does "strategic art" mean? As the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Loverdos, said, "There is no question of militant art in the New Democracy". Mr. Loverdos, I have to answer that if I hadn't been watered and recruited by my teenage years by the ideals of the Left through Labraki youth, whose founder and inspiration was Mickey Theodorakis, who is often mentioned in your report, the theatrical decentralisation in our country might not have been. I am talking about the creation of the Thessalic Theatre in 1975, which was the protagonist and guide for the creation of the municipal regional theatres and therefore the theatrical decentralisation. It was an encamped art that we did at the time. To take the good theatre, that is, to the last village of Thessaly, to our country. If we did not believe in the ideas of the Left, that good art is for everyone, rich and poor, peasant and bourgeois, this miracle, as Kostas Georgosopoulos called it, in an article in “NEA” entitled “Thessaloniki Theatre - a miracle in the province”, would not have taken place. And I still have to tell you from my personal experience, you will allow me, when I am gladly told spectators that they have been shocked by the way I interpret the ordinary women of the people, I answer to them that I interpret them like this because I hurt these women, because since I have lived next to them, in their daily struggles, I am a child of such a mother, Maria Vaguena. This for me is a militant art, disgusting the joys and sorrows and worries of the world, and why not smell them, that is to say, collect them with your senses and move them to art. Before I spoke about our topic, "ACROPOL", I would like to say that my partner, Lucian Kilaidoni, dreamed of doing on the roof "Acropolis" a spectacle entitled "Media Luz". I hope you did not accuse him of a "BOX". With regard to the bill we are discussing, I would like to say that I fear that another supervised body of the Ministry of Culture, which will be manipulated by the respective government, is going to be added. After all, the intention is clear. The Director will be appointed for the first two years now by the Minister of Culture with the right to renew. Forgive me, but my long-term experience with this ministry makes me sceptical. If this organization will have as its main purpose the training of artists so that they can manipulate their own work and international contacts, I'm somewhat curious about all this. What culture and artists need in our country and, in particular, in the difficult current circumstances, is, in my humble opinion, essential, fair and immediate financial support. I repeat, Minister, just and immediate. The theatres are in the fifth month closed, with thousands of unemployed workers. I would ask you, and I ask you, to increase the annual state budget permanently, the budget for culture. It is not an insult to strengthen artists and artistic creation, even with benefits. Don't be afraid of the word. I repeat: in the present difficult situation, there is a need for many to survive. I'm in the unpleasant position to mention something. A moment ago in the House, a complaint came to me from a resident of the Municipality of Agia Varvaras that at the Drama School of the Municipality of Agia Varvara, in the midst of a pandemic, the husband of the MP of the Movement of Change Mr Nadias Giannakopoulou was appointed. He's a worthy fellow actor. Incidentally, however, he is also the best man of the Mayor of Agia Barbara, Mr Lambros Michus, former PASOK and now supported wholeheartedly by the New Democracy. Now it explains a lot of things. I would like to close my speech with a poem by Vassilis Maggios, who died the day before yesterday from acute pulmonary oedema, according to the relevant medical examination, after being beaten wildly by police forces a few weeks ago, because he took part in a protest on a Volos ecological issue. Vassilis Mangos came from a family associated with art in Volos. His grandfather was archaeologist at Volos. The poem is entitled "I never wanted to be an artist". It's good for you, gentlemen. He says: “These are the hours that there is no inspiration, no ostrich. These hours I don't force myself to write or force him to drink water. I leave myself simply to the swirling of my existence and perhaps all I do is breathe." Now this kid doesn't even breathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, may I have a little intervention because he mentioned me personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Loverdo, no, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u123	I don't want to say anything wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Bukkoru will come and tell us. Mr Nikolaos Friend of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u125	Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which has two major parts. The first is 'Acropolis'. We have placed ourselves on the wrong conception, centralization, state, "manatziral" for the art that this model is proposing by the government, unlike the SYRIZA Government, which proceeded to a large extent and reached the end for a short time, with a concept of self-organization of artists and the strengthening of artistic creation. I accept that this difference is a more general difference and the elections give one direction or another. The questions concern the second part of the bill, which is an attempt to uncover the cultural treasures of the country. Two questions: firstly, why did these articles not put them in consultation and you secretly, in secret and invitingly, just came the matter to Parliament's committee. Why? Secondly, why have you refused to participate in the debate in the committee of the House in the association of archaeologists? We're at a time when we're listening to the experts. Isn't that what we're talking about? If the issue of cultural heritage and its exploitation do not listen to the experts, not only because of knowledge but also because of experiences and offerings, which are the archaeologists, who are we listening to? Are we listening to the various companies who want to do business with the Parthenon's patterns? I would like to present to the House, in order that there will be the positions of the archaeologists' association in the Minutes, who are asking for the bill to be revoked. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Minister of Culture included certain arrangements for the use of the image of monuments, which are all negative to the public interest. Let me note that in every country historical monuments are good for common benefit, value that the archaeological law has protected to date, as well as other wealth for the Greeks. It is a joint finding that post-war Greek archaeological legislation was one of the most positive in Europe, but this alone is not enough. He helped that she was served by people, scientists and technicians, with knowledge and friendly, with a high sense of science and national perception. Without them, the law would be an empty letter. The strictness of legislation was also positive, because not only did it save monuments, but it has made the public aware that their protection can sometimes be painful and expensive, but these are temporary, while the gain for culture and the national economy is permanent. Today the tradition of archaeological legislation is betrayed, and that is something that will have consequences. They are weakened and weakened by the provisions that set limits and provide funds to the public by using the image of monuments. The State General Accounting Office itself in its report accompanying the bill speaks of this risk of losing public revenue. The changes that are being legislated - and you must take them back, Minister - reverse values that the Archaeological Service has served over time. The main special regulation relates to the change in the lesser cases of commercial exploitation of the image of a monument without payment of a fee. A wicked provision that passes through ‘prices’ shall be replaced by the phrase of the applicable archaeological law, which provides that fees shall be paid, if necessary, by those who have ‘direct or indirect economic purpose’. This sentence is replaced by the words ‘when the profit is intended’. Where the direct or indirect commercial or economic purpose is removed, the majority of the cases of business use shall be removed and the Archaeological Service shall be converted into a judge of detail. Is it produced directly from this use? This wicked wording the Minister has attempted to justify with unheardless simplifications. I will explain immediately what it actually means and why it can benefit from business interests, causing open damage to the Greek State, as the State General Accounting Office notes in its report. A business is not only beneficial because it sells, for example, t-shirts with the Acropolis, as the Minister said. It can benefit in many indirect ways. It can promote and upgrade its image to the public, using the image of a monument, without at that time selling a product and collecting it. It is now something that you can either allow without a stop or force the oligorithms of the Archaeological Service to consider whether there is a direct profit and to fight with the envoys of the major companies. And, of course, it leaves outside all non-profit companies, institutions, for example, to have a press to say that "I do not have the purpose of profit, so every action I do, and even the sale of a product, is legitimate and I owe nothing to the EBRD". In this House, the Minister made an incredible misunderstanding among the Members and the public who listened to us. Because you see populism has many legs and expressions. The Minister told us that this sedative differentiation is being legislated so that young people can easily take selfie in archaeological sites. You'd think and there was ever archaeologist who chased tourists because he posted a photo of his children on Facebook to the Naoussidon of Poseidon in Sounio, in fact advertising our country. The previous provision, which laid down that fees would be paid when the aims were traded, included the selfie tourist. So why do you change it, Minister? Let us go to the explanatory statement, if it will enlighten us, since in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media the Minister did not say a word about this change. It can't be. Justification is this, it will explain what was wrong with the previous regulation - directly or indirectly, commercial or economic - to be replaced by the smallest, most restrictive phrase 'with a view to profit'. It is therefore explained in the rapporteur's report: "The obligation to license when the monuments' display is used with a speculative aim to prevent speculation", that is to say, an inappropriate idology. You'd think the previous provision promoted speculation. Who are you kidding, Minister, and who are you serving? So to clarify to the Minister and the authors of the explanatory statement that'reason' means 'explain why I change the precedent', which obviously also controlled profit, with a more broad interpretation. What was the problem with the previous arrangement? Was the selfie of the tourist commercial or economic purpose? Was artistic creation a commercial or economic purpose? Otherwise, in such poorly-quality reports you are simply mocking your MPs and especially your MPs. How did the Minister convince you in the Morphics Committee, while still on its popular argument, that previous provisions obliged the students of a school who wanted to take a picture of the Parthenon in their diary and sell it to raise money for their excursion, without profit? And now - he says - they are exempted, and before the Archaeological Service would have to go after them by law. I give aside that no one was involved in chasing a student who put the Parthenon in his class diary. But it is amazing to use students, young children, to hit the proper "hard" of the people they are listening to, while the provision exempts companies, the big capital, which will invoke commercial purposes, but not the profit target. Shame on you! Here, then, are the issues. Withdrawal immediately, on the one hand, and on the other, disconnect the licence from the payment of fees, on the other hand, do not alter the provision which ceases to oblige payment of resources if no direct profit is generated. Otherwise, you are harming the public, for which at some point you may be asked to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u126	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u127	I shall conclude and thank you, Mr President. You said in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media and in the Committee on Culture. You claimed that you want to help with your settings. We supposedly wanted them to be soldiers, them and their art, and learned in allowances to depend on us. And you raised the New Democracy, your liberal party, as you said, on the other hand, because it wants the artists on their feet. What a hypocrisy! You completely abandoned the artists during the crisis, just the day before yesterday. It was the only branch in the coronary crisis that made a protest outside the House and demanded your gaze, an elementary subsidy. Because it is a sector where unemployment hits it, not only in the first two months of the coronary, but for many months, in the near future. Obviously, you seem to insist that poets and, by extension, artists - how does your former Minister say so? - they're ladders. What can we say? We would expect you, Minister, to come here with additional aid measures for artists, with a brave programme of public investment for culture, taking advantage of European experience in financing artistic creations and creators. None of this. We also saw, as a general secretary at that time, that were other ministers above you and "our liberal paradox, New Democracy", as you said, we saw how you dealt with them with the "sinner" GDP of artists, which had no control and restriction over your days and humiliated artists. He literally drank their own medal. But the businessmen, who were being led to the courts for delaying the payment of fees, who went to the pockets of their own owners, who, let us not forget, on the initiative of scrutiny by our government, are being prosecuted for felonies committed by the tolerance of your own old governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u128	Please, finish it, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u129	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other issues on which we must vote against this bill. I appeal to the very few who are here today Members of the majority. Unfortunately, my colleagues did not have much interest in this bill. I know, on other points we can disagree on very specific ideological differences. But here is the common good of culture. Do not give up your right to speak on the basis of your conscience, based on the conscience of the Greek MP. And don't collide in an attempt at a private company to seize the rights that nation, cultural rights. And, as Mrs Mendoni and Mr Mitsotakis do, or is the narrow prime minister environment? - don't put a footnote on the Parthenon's value too. The Minister said - and I conclude - that in SYRIZA's day, 'COCA COLA' wanted to put its booths in place instead of the columns in the Parthenon, and there was a reaction. And the reaction of the SYRIZA government was abrogated, because there was a problem with legislative powers. Yes, sir! And what's the answer? The answer would be to fortify the state's ability to prevent the Parthenon from being humiliated by 'COCA COLA' and by other companies, not to leave this possibility inconsistently. Withdraw the law. Everyone who knows, everyone who is interested, is asking you among them by the experts, the archaeologists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like the floor to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u131	Oh, no. It will be answered by Mr Bukouros, the parliamentary representative, when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, we need an answer for something he has said. Mitsotakis never said that they're laptops for artists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u133	I said, 'Minister'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u134	For poets, a minister said, but not Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u135	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Hatzidakis, speak thirteen minutes, don't fire me. Mr. Philly, Mr. Hatzidakis, please. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Viliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "ACROPOL" is first of all an ornament for Athens, a sample of architecture Art Nouveau, which was inaugurated as a large hotel in 1928 by a hundred seven rooms. There was the only Grand Hotel in the Messopolitan War, where the entire cosmic Athens was conspiring. It continued to be a point of reference for the Athens area and social life until the 1980s with receptions and events. For those of us who are connected with the area, whether as residents or students at ASEAN or at the Polytechnic University, in which television workshops have also been housed, it is emblematic. It is surely sad to see it decayed, like the whole region, which is a pity, because it is the centre of Athens, which in any other European city, and tourists, is not so degraded. Houses were captured by criminal and other evidence. They've been destroyed. We are talking about architectural and historical monuments, part of the city's history, quality of life, if you like, and the tourist product. The rapporteur of the Greek Solution has now been extensively mentioned in today's "Acropolis" bill, so there is nothing else to add. However, the first thing we thought about by reading it is the well-known "not to spend a day" in the sense that after Greece's overcharge due to the waste of the client state and of political corruption, after its bankruptcy with the erroneous crime of PSI, after all ninety years, after the signing of a third memorial on behalf of our country for the first time in the world history, after ten years of deep crisis, and so on, we have learned absolutely nothing, since for a building such as "AKROPOL", the public feels it is appropriate to establish a new company as a legal person with 17 civil servants and a multi-ethnic organogram to which the building is carried. And this, strangely also for ninety years, just like what we have and do not have to lenders, which means that he has now gotten used to it. As they say "one time a thief, always a thief". It has therefore found the opportunity to set up and serve an additional company, the government of a State that has not yet launched the counting of its employees, despite the constant recommendations of the International Transparency of Greece, but also of many others, lately, on 16 October 2019, recently. Why doesn't he? Why did he raise them with the final state or with ACROPOL today and not just? Simply so that it will continue to feed literally from the fleshs of the now impoverished Greeks the party, the client state that went bankrupt and will soon go bankrupt again Greece - and we formally mean - a multiplier for its size and a multiplely gifted country, but which is now looted by the domestic and international oligarchy, without, unfortunately, reacting to people having manipulated among other things, so as to believe in the well-known "we have eaten them together". In other words, they have turned themselves into victims who think they are victims with responsibility mainly for SYRIZA who convinced them with the appalling betrayal of 2015 that there is no alternative and that the problem, the memorials and subjection to foreigners is the solution. This is a crime that must never be forgotten. After this crime, it was, however, reasonable to plunge itself into corruption, according to the recordings we have all heard, thus being a disgrace to Greece, but above all to the Left. We will now continue from the fact that we do not generally understand the government's optimism, and on the other hand understand the praises of the media, since they have been irresponsiblely fed with large amounts of advertising money from the taxpayers' Greeks. Because we consider it disastrous to be an etherist, especially at this time of the day, we will refer in summary to the following three beastly problems that Greece faces. First, at national level. In this regard, Turkey's challenges have long been turned into claims, on the one hand, because of its huge economic problems which will be exacerbated by the fall in its tourist revenues and, on the other hand, because of Greece's weak position that has continuously reduced its defensive expenditure over the last ten years, while it has been bankrupt. After all, it has an elite - we mean the Greek elite - whose only interest is its economic prosperity, indifferent to its homeland and on the basis of, among other things, Article 52 of the new draft law of the Ministry of Development with which it is subsidized by the State, which is known for its anti-national role through the Hellenic Institute of Research and Innovation. If that's possible! The recent transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque by Turkey, its involvement in Thrace was allegedly to defend the rights of the so-called Turkish minority, the violent settlement of our islands by illegal immigrants, the requirement to coexist with mineral wealth in the Aegean by drilling by its own means, the EOZ agreement with Libya, its moves in Cyprus and so on are not only alarming but also extremely dangerous. And this as a result, among other things, of our government's policy of guiding against it, which suggests the inability to protect our national sovereignty. But there is something pleasing. "SKAI" stopped Turkish series, after pressure from activists, as well as of course ours, who forced companies to stop their ads. So only the 'STAR' has now been left. The second problem Greece is facing is immigration. This issue certainly does not have any racist or nationalist time for us, and of course it does not include legal immigrants, but illegal and especially those used as a weapon of Turkey's invasion, while financially burdening our country with the cost of their care at a very difficult economic time for Greece. When they do not realize that their access to the rest of Europe will never be allowed, and the financial support offered to them by the NGOs or our state will be stopped, they will behave according to the other countries, such as Sweden, France, Belgium, etc., that is to say they will create ghettos and gangs to survive, so crime at heights will be launched and will have additional policing costs for Greece. The last problem is the economy. Starting with what is happening internationally, at the beginning of the COVID crisis -19 everyone expected a V-type recovery, i.e. a limited recession that would be followed by a rapid or even similar growth. They also expected the economy after a short two-month break, which would be supported by large amounts by the states, to be healed by continuing where it was before the crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the meantime, however, we reached July realizing that the recovery of the "V" type was just a wish, since the development of the economy after the pandemic, which no one knows if there would be a second and third wave, was the least anemic. In this respect, the IMF predicts that the economy at the end of 2021 will find it difficult to reach 2019 levels worldwide. It will be reduced by 4% in regions such as Europe and the United States. Greece, however, is not only facing the problems of the rest of the states, but also its much larger ones that existed before the crisis, such as the wrong economic model, the defective productive fabric, the brutal public debt, the intransigent red private debt, bankrupt banks and so much more. So we really need tough decisions and painful ones to cure all three wounds, not the usual wishes adopted by the government with a theatrical optimism that is not documented by anything and nowhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. We will continue with Parliamentary Representative and this time with Mr. George Kamine from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. The fire at the historic hotel "AKROPOL" on Patisia in January 2012 was a key blow to Athens. As mayor of the city then I had repeatedly asked the state to carry out work to restore and exploit this historic building and this was in the context of a comprehensive plan for the renewal and reform of the area surrounding the National Archaeological Museum. It was only at the end of 2019 that the restoration of the building, which had already been characterized as an art project, entered the final straight. The bill creates a Centre for Culture and Creation in the form of a legal person of private law called "ACROPOL ACROS", whose activities will be housed in the historic building of Patisiou street for twenty years. No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic crisis has caused a decisive blow to the area of culture. That is why they are urgent initiatives on the part of the state that will help to relaunch it. The Minister expressed the ambition of the ACROPOL ACROS to become the JEP of the artists. I wish! Because in this bill there are several points on which one can be sceptical. The special speaker of the Change Movement, my colleague, Dimitris Konstantopoulos, both at committee meetings and today in plenary has analysed the individual objections and formulated the proposals of the Change Movement. And we find it positive that you accepted our proposal to be included in the board of directors and worker representative. The most problematic articles are 13 and 14. Article 13 provides for the adoption of rules of procedure of the legal person, but until its adoption, matters will be regulated by its Board of Directors. And how it'll turn out in the board.Huh? That's what Article 14 tells us. The first director shall be appointed by himself the Minister of Culture, by way of derogation from the provisions of Article 5(1) of the bill, i.e. without any invitation of interest, for two years. At the same time, within two months, the Minister will have set up the Management Board, which will have to submit the rules of procedure within five months. In other words, the law itself enables the Centre for Culture and Creation to function in a grey zone until the end of the year. Article 7 provides for the setting-up of seventeen full-time private sector law posts and two legal advisers. What specialities these seventeen will have will be determined by the rules of procedure. But until it is issued, the board of directors appointed by the Minister has the absolute discretion to cover these positions with any specialties he thinks so. And as if that were not enough, during the first year of operation it can be extracted, as it says, by way of derogation from the texts, staff from the Ministry of Culture. By coincidence today, it is published in the "ATHENS VOICE" an article that I sign along with Efi Stefopoulou, who is responsible for the public administration of the Change Movement, on the derogations not only from the secondment but also from the public contracts and placement at head offices, etc. It is for the national court to determine whether the conditions laid down in Article 3(1) of the Directive are fulfilled. We have found over forty cases and most of them, their vast majority, are not about the coronary. It is a government which is constantly legislating by way of derogation. So what will happen with this staff seconded by way of derogation from the provisions? It will be what the next article, Article 15, tells us. Watch out what Article 15 says. Article 15 enables the secondment to the posters of the Ministry of Culture - those seconded to the National Theatre, to the State Theatre of Northern Greece, the National Opera - and whose secondment is renewed by 31 December of this year, with the possibility of equal renewal. And you say in this article that the seconded three months before the end of their secondment may apply for transfer to empty organic posts of the host entity. I imagine that this is by way of derogation from the mobility provisions. In fact, an application is being made to the host institution, because, as we see, they have been officials who have been in this regime for 15 years. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This is happening all the time in our country - and the present government has abused a great deal - to set up agencies by way of derogation and to be seconded by officials from other agencies. And ‘by way of derogation’ means without the opinion, i.e. without the assent of the agency from which the staff member comes. And that is how organic positions are constantly multiplying in public, that is to say, it reproduces the phenomenon that the memorandum came precisely to eliminate, because it was a constant cause of bankruptcy in the country, that is, the fact that we constantly multiplyed positions in the public, without removing positions from where they are left behind. I come to the amendment tabled by the Change Movement concerning exceptional compensation for workers working seasonally in tourism and food business, for which L.4690/2020 has not provided that this monthly exceptional compensation amounting to an amount equal to the last monthly unemployment allowance received can be recovered. On the basis of the above provisions and the joint ministerial decision followed by 23102/4477/13-06-2020, a significant number of seasonal employees in tourism - food without the right to re-entry throughout the territory is excluded from receiving this benefit because unemployment benefits days exceed eighths. Especially in areas where the tourist season often lasts until November, seasonal workers' days of employment in tourism - foodism are on average much more than other tourist areas, resulting in the period of regular unemployment subsidies exceeding three months and five days, on the other hand, in the payment of unemployment benefit for many workers in December and in April of the following year. Article 33(1) of Law No 4690 does not take account of that provision. And our Member, George Mulkiotis, mentioned the example of Rhodes. Of the six thousand seasonal workers, they are ultimately entitled to unemployment subsidy only five hundred, which is less than 5%. For the treatment of this problem we are proposing this amendment. There is Article 21 of the bill on the establishment of an autonomous Department of Public Relations and Customs, which comes under the Minister of Culture. We are impressed here: You are describing responsibilities, but you are not describing the procedures to be followed by this separate section. Is it going to be an intra-service? Will it be with calls for secondments to the single mobility system? Will you be serving it with posteriors, such as the usual practice of this government? You should tell us that, Minister, why Article 10 of the AD4/2008, which provides for the establishment of an independent Press and Communication Division, provides for the procedure laid down in Article 67 of Law 1943/1991 concerning the administration of press and public relations offices. What's going to happen here? There is some positive in the bill that is worth stressing among other things. It is the recommendation of the International Advisory Committee referred to in Article 9. They are more specific provisions of Article 16 to address the consequences of the pandemic, as well as that pursuant to Article 17 the National Museum of Contemporary Art will now be housed in the premises of the former "FIX", which is owned by the company "ATITIMERO". As for the governmental amendment of the Ministry of Health, we are in agreement with paragraph 1 on the extension of contracts of the EGE because of a coronary, but we do not agree with paragraph 3, which, instead of recruiting temporary staff, is chosen to move staff to the points of entry of the country from hospitals, health centres, etc., with the consequence that these health bodies are weakened at a Krone time. We also consider that the legal persons of the Ministry are now provided for a position of administrative director other than that of the artistic director. Confusing these responsibilities to a person with responsibilities requiring completely different skills has in the past led to tragedy phenomena. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u140	Thank you. Mrs. Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a happy time for this bill to be passed. I mean the juncture of the transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque, that is, the insult of the universal symbols and their history. Let us see, however, whether the particular government of Mitsotakis and the Minister concerned also offend our own monuments, symbols of either modernity or the oldest, modern history and ancient history. Does this seem too much of a comparison? Let's see. Let's go first to "Acropolis". A monument of our modern architectural history, tradition and culture from the few multi-storeyed selective buildings that exist in Athens from 1919-1929 when the government of Eleftherios Venizelos allows for the first time the expansion of the city to become a megapolis from where it is a village with two-storey low houses. Great the course of "ARCOPOULS", great history, glorious conclusion. It is ignored by your Government and by the time it is elected, it begins the communal vertebrae of your great idealism. He says, “Acropolis” will entail the trilogy of the new archaeological museum complex of Archaeological Museum - Polytechnics - “Acropolis”. Soon after that big plan came down and comes back from the right. So what's the plan? It was not "Acropolis" the plan. It was the Polytechnic. A living institution of the country, the Polytechnic, the supreme university, the global memory of our people's resistance to the junta doing so, let's forget. You'll never make that happen. I assure you with any laws of Chrysochide, if you vote. Immediately after that, there was the great inspiration of the underground association of the Museum - "ACROPOL". What for? To be invited to receptions foreign civilization officials and not to be seen? To appoint a day without knowledge of cultural issues in the Board. and without an artistic director obtained from a public invitation? ACROPOL had to be the public cultural area in dialogue with the city, with the Polytechnics, with the most important museum in the country that is the Archaeological indeed. We say that once a progressive government has been regained, this country will re-establish its role. Now we're going to the inadmissible articles 20-25 of the bill. Here you really achieve something that no Minister would dare not only, but could not succeed. Initially, you disqualify the state's exclusive right to the management and exploitation of cultural heritage and you manage it with this amazing diploma: On the one hand, you are harming the state with the loss of huge revenues, assigning the copies of the country's archaeological treasures to individuals as well as any revenue resulting from the portrayal of the archaeological sites and monuments, and on the other you are relaxing the monuments of our place. Imagine, in other words, the whole chicory that will come from this assignment, one of the representations and the other of the new copies that will be a little tempted. Two birds, that is, Minister. Implement the pan-human monuments and archaeological treasures and, on the other hand, damage to the state and the Ministry of Culture in an area that really finances culture. You know very well, because it is impossible to ignore, that revenues derived from copies of the Louvre, Cairo Museum, British Museum, Acropolis Museum, etc. It is still so great that they even finance free access to these museums. Who doesn't know? It's a huge revenue. So he loses the state, but at the same time the universe enjoys itself. It is no coincidence that your Members are not involved in this debate. They don't care about them, about culture. It's not because of the minister's radiation, it's because they're outside the right-wing logic. I believe that SYRIZA protected the rights of the public on the monuments and the monuments itself, which have no voice, while the New Democracy destroys the monuments, as it does with the metro of Thessaloniki despite international scientific reactions, and unravels their image, their status, their identity for every use. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this way, the Mitsotakis Government is attempting to make arrangements for the commercialisation of its monuments and symbols by any individual, without giving any account to the owner - I am ending, Mr President, that is to say, in the state, by circumventing his right to have a say on the use of his symbols. We, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, commit that SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance will fully restore and safeguard the specific rights of the Greek public and Greek people when it becomes a government, abolishing this provision, if it is voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Vassilis Spankis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every bill brought by the Mitsotakis Government to the House demonstrates the different culture, the different culture we have with the SYRIZA parade, but at all levels. Every bill we bring aims to growth, to new jobs, to upgrade our regions and to create a good, stable basis for Greece that we want, for the homeland that the Greeks deserve. We put bases for proper infrastructure in the country's cultural projection. We are creating a modern and flexible management model. Let us not forget that we are legislating the year 2020 for the future of our country and our children. There is no doubt that much time has been lost, but at the same time there is also a time - an opportunity to do what has not been done in previous years. In this bill, what is being called for in a few hours' time for our Parliament to vote is a start to implement policies to promote our cultural product. At the same time, however, it is well seen that it is time to go to more brave policies to attract investment at all levels, and to culture. And to invest in culture, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a need for brave tax incentives. Reading Article 12 of this bill, one of the sources of revenue of the new legal person with the distinctive title "ACROPOL" is from sponsorships, donations, inheritances and from all kinds of social resources. And let me say at the Step that it is time to go to a more brave tax policy for the cultural development of our country, with greater incentives, with tax exemptions, both for natural and legal persons. I have listened with great interest to the colleagues of all the groups and have read with particular attention the report of the committee responsible and I have noted that the Minority rapporteur, the SYRIZA party, has recommended that this bill should not be passed. Note this: It is at least hypocritical that SYRIZA's attitude to the people of culture, such as regulations such as those provided for in Article 16, to cancel and postpone events due to the coronary, to vote against them in this Chamber! Let the Greek people hear them! So are you interested in small and medium-sized enterprises and will you come to this Chamber to vote against this important provision? Or is Article 19 relating to the extension of the leases of cinemas and theatres until 30 September 2021 due to a coronary? In any case, SYRIZA is voting in here, but he says to the Greek people. In any case, no one can dispute that this bill should be voted for by our Parliament because it brings about important arrangements, such as those for the National Museum of Contemporary Art on Contemporary Avenue, at the former factory of "FIX", a museum important for the southern suburbs, for Attica, for the whole country. It brings important arrangements for the Thessaloniki Film Festival, for the Greek Film Center, for the Greek Festival and modernises the administration of legal persons supervised by the Ministry of Culture and Sports. Madam Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your initiatives. I know your concerns and concerns. I want within this framework of your initiatives to include and the promotion of the Pireos road on a cultural path, a road that unites the capital of the country with the large port of Piraeus, a road with history, next to the Macra Walls, with important institutions such as Irene Papa, Michael Cacoyannis, the Great Hellenism, the High School of Fine Arts, the building of the National Odeion on Piraeus, close to the Omonia where Mickey Theodorakis studied, a few meters from Oliveon with a wonderful view to the Acropolis. Such legal persons, such as what is being founded today, must be the beginning of a continuity quickly so that no more valuable time is lost. We cannot oppose the issues of our culture and cultural heritage. Culture shows us the way for the future, and that is why our Parliament must take even more important initiatives. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill gives an answer to those who until yesterday outside of here were, supposedly, defending the problems that workers have in culture and coming today to vote against this bill as an act of hypocrisy to workers in the cultural sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr Spanakis, especially for keeping time. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Fotini Bakada, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Culture on the creation of the Centre for Culture 'Acropolis Acropolis'. Reading the explanatory statement makes it surprising that, from the outset, one of the main objectives is to attract the creation of an international calibre. And why am I saying it's an impression? The reason I say it is very specific. In our country, especially in the aftermath of the pandemic, we think it would be better and more useful to focus, before trying to attract artists abroad, to make sure that we support our own creators, actors and artists in all sectors, people who have either left out of support measures and now face a very serious problem of biopoliticism and survival or are waiting to live on the exceptional allowance not knowing what will happen in the next few months. There's a lot of these people. They're actors, musicians, choreographers, dancers, disabled artists, they're too many. The list is really a long one. As far as any meetings and talks are concerned, and if we had as a MERA25 from all over the spectrum and all the areas of art, from whatever point of view, they supported it, be they technicians, sounders, lighters, be they in front of or behind the cameras, in front of or behind a microphone, their agony for tomorrow was common. There is uncertainty about the future, the fear that they will face serious problems, even if we do not have a new outburst, which, unfortunately, figures show that we are going to a new pandemic wave and we may have to take new measures and impose new restrictions. At best, these people appreciate and expect their daily lives and work to be normalized in one and a half years. Until then both they and their families will continue to live in a regime of daily anxiety and enormous insecurity. At the same time, apart from the professionals of art, the Ministry left amateurs, amateur theatres, cultural clubs and other bodies and people supporting cultural production of the country. It has, however, speeded up to discuss a bill aimed at attracting foreign creators and aims, as we read, to have a catalytic effect on modern Greek creation in the country, on the conditions prevailing in the cultural and creative sectors, on the support and strengthening of professionals in the sector, on the national economy and on the promotion of the modern face of Greece in the world. However, we all know that Greek creators and artists are the face of Greece, the culture of Greece in the world. The sooner we see this, the sooner we decide to support them, the stronger the modern cultural sector in the country will become, and only then will it be able to gather and attract the interest of foreign creators who will choose our country to promote their work and activities. You stated to the Committee, Minister, that culture is a deeply political issue that recognises and gives the opportunity to show our ideological differences, but you called on us to see this bill in a micro-political way, but as a step towards strengthening artists and creators. I fully agree with you. It is indeed a political matter for culture. Any action we take is political, from the morning when we get up, from what we do when we wake up to every little or big decision we make in our lives. Indeed, culture is a political issue and an expression and - believe me - I tried not to see with any micro-party lens and the proposed piece of legislation. However, I cannot and cannot as a Merra25 overlook a number of points which are - and I would say it elegantly - at least in problematic terms, such as the creation of seventeen full-time private sector law posts and two legal advisers, the completion of which is carried out by a decision of the board at the initiative of the Director. In other words, it has the power of the Director of the Centre to decide on the staff he wishes to appoint. I have to say that, from a government that has made its flag of excellence, at least at a theoretical level - because in practice, let us be honest with each other, it is not observed - we would sincerely expect a better prediction on the subject. Madam Minister, you have also told the committee that the entrepreneurial of art is the same of other parties and not a liberal party. Sadly, however, for us and for the art, since New Democracy has the rule of the country, it is the very liberal part of what is also apparent from the bill under discussion, namely the commercialisation of art. Believe me, this is clearly worse. At the same time you pointed out that you want workers in the cultural sector to live with dignity and work without waiting for state subsidies or state allowances. We all want this and the workers in art would not need benefits if they had not broken up any concept of artistic production this year especially in our country. We see that few events and performances will take place, if they are done in the end, and hundreds of up to thousands of others have been referred to the bells. At the same time, however, where you want the good of the workers, at the hearing of the bodies, the Association of Greek Actors was not invited, a club representing a huge part of the workers in the field of art. It is obviously not your fault for this, but we cannot comment on it, given that this decision shows a lot about the way in which the ruling party is thinking, since your party is the chairman of the Standing Committee which has worked out the bill and has proceeded with the selection and subsequent call of the bodies to be heard. We also see the entire bill running an effort to describe art as a merchandise and the artist - creator taking the place of business. In one - let us say - excellently market-based approach to the art and culture that is hovering us, considering the country's enormous wealth, but also the remarkable cultural production of contemporary culture, to want to turn artists and creators into dealers of art not only has nothing to give, but in the long term it will be something that will cost. I agree with you, Minister, that the artistic management is at an embryonic stage in our country and should be developed, but let us first pay close attention to the support of domestic production so that the people of art do not need the benefits we give them and then let us deal with the cultural management, genericisation and all the other concepts that could be introduced into the discussion and then have a great debate on it. I now return to the board as described. We cannot fail to notice that the first director, like the board of directors, is appointed by a decision of the Minister of Culture. The other directors will follow the process of public invitations of interest, so it should be somewhat as expected that the positions will be covered by people of confidence by the Minister, as well as by the government. All the features of the director mentioned, such as the formal qualifications and responsibilities they have set, refer more to private speculators and not to a director of a public cultural organisation. It follows from the same article, Article 5, that the purpose of the Director of ACROPOL ACROS is to maximise the profits of the centre and in no way to promote culture by giving a step of expression, presence and assistance to all artists. Unfortunately, although "AKROPOL" could really be a place of culture, an open public space that would be dedicated to the arts without any exclusion, which would encourage young and older artists and be a key point of meeting, but also an osmosis among them, a place of innovation and experimentation, now we have its conversion into an area where one can see fashion demonstrations and - why not - cosmic events, but a lot of gains in the center and more profit should be the ultimate goal of creators, but of course it is also his administration. Unfortunately, we see culture being sacrificed on the altar of neoliberal perception that everything is an operation aimed at maximising profits and reducing losses. But, ladies and gentlemen, culture is not a merchandise, artists are not sellers or businessmen, but they are creators who dedicate their lives, their art, whatever this is, whether it is the theater, music, painting, performing arts, or whatever kind of art they have chosen to serve. We must support them and not discuss such a serious bill at a time when it is extremely difficult for the artistic sector, which is still facing the financial outlets of the coronary pandemic. Nor should we confuse art with cultural products, as the bill often does. Although it is not something I am used to, I will close by mentioning a brief reference to a colleague who spoke before me. We heard expressions that will surely be judged by the citizens out there that will see the video. I believe that using expressions of the style of "trags", "singings" does not honor any of us. I say this because there are too many colleagues who are artists. I've had several years of my life studying a classic song. I'm very proud because I've worked as a musician in music scenes. I do not think anyone should be ashamed, but expressions of such styles and styles do not have space in the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. It is now called at Step by SYRIZA Mr Vassilios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. As it is the first time I have spoken from the Step of the House, I am very moved. The first article of the bill that says that the cultural and creative sector supports economic development, which goes below also to strengthen the professionals of the cultural sector and the creation with skills, skills and know-how and to develop a framework characterised by sustainable business and work models, all this is something that does not have exactly anything to do with culture. There was a ready and after long consultation of the SYRIZA bill that was completely ignored. What is missing, however, scandalously from the "Acropolis" bill is the Acropolis itself. The Acropolis of culture is the reason, 'in principle not the reason'. Texts were saved by the imperial philosophers, of course, by the Democritus who invented the person, i.e. the unscaved further, which ended up - unfortunately - first in the atomic bomb and in our days in the atomic pizza, that is, the unscathed further, and the Lefkipos who first discovered the synapses of the neurons in the brain. Afterwards, Plato followed. And socrates may have drank the lid, but later Christ who wanted to crucify himself to pass the message of the Resurrection and the Second Presence, was perpetuated by the writing of the four Gospels. So the book, it's the writing that rescues the first acquired experience and promotes it. Without the book there would be no civilization, but without the "Acropolis" the Acropolis would continue to exist, so this unprecedented contempt for the book by the Ministry of Culture equals Acronauplia, when the capital of the modern Greek state was Nafplio and where Maniadakis later imprisoned the communists in Metaxas. And there would be no development of species without Darwin’s book, as knowledge of the market economy without Marx’s capital. 'Capital', i.e. capital, comes from the catle, i.e. cow. Capitalism, therefore, is milking all cow milk and is now promoting it as a soothing of the coronary pandemic. And I drink juices and I dream of fruit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u148	Mr George Stylos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly more experts to talk about culture about a special subject, a special subject than I am, because I have not served him, I have not worked in culture. It's completely different to my education, my circular studies, university, postgraduate and working life. I know that the Minister for Culture serves culture from positions of responsibility all her life. I know - and I saw it at the meetings of our committee, discussing this bill - that there are fellow Members, politicians from all parties, who know the specificities of the cultural area and certainly have to say quite interesting things about the draft law. My position, as a man with the features I described before, will be different. It will focus on the added value of the draft law, as I understand it, but it will be an approach that has deep love for the cultural good of our country and for the cultural heritage of our country as I have experienced it and as I understand it. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] This legislative initiative supports in practice the people of art and culture who have been beaten as much by any other sector as by the coronary crisis. We show the sensitivity to them, as to the other social groups, so that we can all overcome this particular difficulty. We are trying to give these people the conditions for their recovery, and this is not for social reasons - if you like - because we do not treat culture with a subsidised policy, but because of economic, development, strengthening the international image of the country, the new person we want to present to the world, its connection to tourism, its connection to the export product of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, today, as our rapporteur has said, the cultural sector in the country employs over 3% of the workers. Over 100 000 workers and over 40 000 businesses are active in this area, in the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore understood that any investment in the creative and cultural sector can bring many benefits and added value in general to the development and economy of the country. It puts civilization on its own a multiplier. Therefore, there is a need for the industry to become more resilient, more competitive and to attract the creators of an international calibre. In order to serve all of this, it is necessary to create an appropriate framework for providing professionals with know-how, information, development tools for strengthening their extroversion and dynamic expertise, as we would call it, services of general consultancy. In my view, this aim is to serve the Centre for Culture and Creation "AKROPOL", a new institution active on three lines: The first with a centre of interest the members of the cultural and creative sectors themselves, the second with a centre of interest for modern Greek culture and the third with a centre of interest for the general public. Ladies and gentlemen, the creators and artists today, and especially those who are at their beginning, are basically formed in informal shapes which have to deal with an administrative, tax, labour and contractual burdens which go far beyond artistic creation. Why, badly lying, the artist cannot consume his time or his mind to approach programs, file files, compile technical bulletins. On the other hand, we all know that nobody gives money without a documented proposal, to evaluate it and to know how that money - I am talking about the European funds and the funds that the state distributes - will be made available and how they will be exploited. ACROPOL, therefore, comes to fill this gap in our own view. It is not an additional reflection club, in essence, which will provide the tools to help strengthen these structures, but will provide them with competences for administrative, organisational, marketing, networking mainly through the organisation of seminars, workshops and coexistence - their partnership and their partnerships with educational, cultural research bodies that we have in Greece and abroad. It will, therefore, assist their efforts to find funding that they need. You know, you and all of us, that you might have very good ideas, but you also need money to get you to do these ideas. So, in my opinion, this is an intervention, an effort of added value, which wants to help and strengthen artists throughout our country. In the bill, too, there are provisions clarifying the terms and conditions under which international producers will be allowed to organise in our country, so that we do not lead to cases that defamate our country. Just a few days ago the bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy was passed which contributes towards this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, with only two words, in my view culture and art do not belong to any political area. They belong to all of us. It is a thread invisible and almighty that has held us together for centuries, which gives us reason for existence. Art goes beyond our pedestrian reality, ignoring life, gives value and reason for our existence. We all here in Parliament have something to add, our own little bit, to bring our culture forward, to support our nation and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u150	The President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) Party of European Socialists (Christian Democrats) Party of European Socialists
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have read the bill very carefully. It is occupied by an anguish that is reasonable. It is the anxiety about how cultural resources will be found and how cultural production itself will produce resources. In fact, art requires money. He always demanded money. And, yes, the artists, the musicians, the theatre people, must be helped, they must be able to sell their works but also tickets and not just live by the state or by the charity of a ruler. Indeed - and there we will agree - that modern Greek cultural production must be internationalised. It has a very important value, which, unfortunately, is not projected abroad, as it should be. It needs to be acquired, we need to create a audience both inside and outside Greece. But, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, your bill confuses things that should not be confused. Confuse the production of cultural goods with their purchase, the price as inadvertent but welcome, by-product of an invaluable value, with the price as an object of the desire of the artist presented as an entrepreneur, a form of entrepreneur. We see it in your bill every time there's a reference to the artist. The artist, right, needs money and enough money to live well. However, the artist who acts as a form of businessman is self-determined. Like the mathematician or the musician. The artist must overcome himself, his ego, so he can create something invaluable. He must not be able to do anything else than what he does. Not to do business with anything else, whether it's fame or that's profit. It must, in other words, be the exact opposite of the businessman, the entrepreneur, who, if not mobilised by profit, will cease to be an entrepreneur, will go bankrupt. It must be the opposite of the cynic, which Oscar Wilde has defined as the one who knows the price of everything, but ignores the value of anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you have been paralyzed by the ideology of the New Democracy of previous decades. Have you embraced an extreme pseudo-liberalism that may well lead you to pose the question - I have heard this question from people on your side - "and why can't the ability to maximize the artist's profit by means of his art be considered an art?" There is such a tradition in art, unfortunately, lately, which, of course, self-determination. Anyone who knows Damien Hirst knows what I mean. The answer to the question: "Why is the maximization of the benefits from art not in line with art?" is given by Aristotle, not by me. Let me remind you that for Aristotle no activity is virtuous if it does not end. And it gives an example of building a ship, a boat. It's got a start, it's a half and it's over. Just because it has an end, this end makes it potentially virtuous, while the maximisation of profit - because profit tends to infinitely, especially if you are Bill Gates, Ellon Mask, Demien Hirst - by definition, cannot be virtuous, according to Aristotle. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, your party is clear - by reading your bill - that it ignores the quintousity of the cultural production process, the basic sweet paradox on the one hand the inadvertent motives on the other side of the result. I had met a mathematician in Cambric in the early 1980s, who had told me about the number theory, "Number Theory", which he dealt with at the time. When I asked him: 'What are these theories you are dealing with, what is the theory of numbers', he says: 'Hey, look, their main feature is that they have absolutely no practical value'. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you know that today your phones would not work unless there was the theory of mathematical numbers, such as the one, who thought they had no practical value. Practical value, in the end, is like a by-product, like the happiness you achieve only if you don't try to be happy. Because if you're trying to be happy, misery is assured. Clown Gregoriadis mentioned this in Van Gogh’s example. Van Gogh finally turned out to have created works that are busted for billions, precisely because it was not his goal. Ladies and gentlemen, the revenues are maximized by those who create invaluable value. But to create priceless value, it cannot be your goal to maximize revenues. To create invaluable values, whether they are in mathematics, whether they are in music, or they are in visual, the only way is through the release of the creators from the agony of price creation, free themselves so that they can create without this anguish only because a true artist can do otherwise. To help you understand this sweet paradox, I will tell you this: When you tell someone - especially young - "go to make art thinking about how to make money in order to live, fund your work", it's like you say to him or say to her "in an spontaneous way". Think about it, 'incense spontaneous'! It's an order that self-determinates when you're snooping it. Is it impossible to try and be spontaneous? It's impossible to hunt money as a real artist. So society must - if we value art - release the creators from the market, not enslave them into the market. In other words, the opposite of what your bill does, the opposite of your mind. We need to start early, from school. Picasso, if you remember, said that all children are born artists, the question is how we'll keep them artists when they grow up. But we saw your colleague at the Ministry of Education, the vulnerability with which you dealt with the artistic lessons. We at Mer25 recommend artistic gymnastics and high school in every neighborhood, for every child, even for what they don't want to be artists. Resources for artists through competitive procedures by critical committees. Yes, the internationalization of Greek cultural production. But how do you internationalize? We have this jewelry that Anna Cafetsis created in Congregation, Fix, the National Museum of Contemporary Art, which sits and sprinkles so many years from all the Memorandum governments. This should be the attraction of foreign artists in Greece and the source from which modern Greek creation will emerge abroad through agreements between EMST and important art museums. Not what is happening in Greece, where certain oligars come here, choose two - three local artists, mix them with imported works of great commercial value and essentially because of the bankruptcy of the Greek state over many years, what they do is they have full hegemony over the cultural scene. John Kennedy, not to say that I am only talking to leftists, said that if we want art to feed the roots of culture, society must release artists to follow their vision where they are pushed, the opposite of what your bill does. Ladies and gentlemen, the artist as a creator and not as a third-class businessman is inexistent in the bill, is absent from the very logic of your bill. Your bill is clear that it does not conceive the important dictionary at the heart of cultural production. What do you think? On the one hand, a serious artist, a serious creator, creates priceless value that cannot be quantified. At the same time, he is a man, like all of us, a worker, who needs to live, who needs to be quantified of raw materials, first-needed species, this combination, the invaluable value produced with priced needs and opportunity costs. This dilemma is no paradox that must be crushed, and the production and raw materials of production must eventually be converted into a quantifiable unit, which is measurable. Your bill is trying to crush these two, to crush this paradox. But if you crush it, you won't have an art. Marx once wrote that "art always and everywhere is the secret confession and at the same time the secret movement of her time". It speaks of your bill of importance to create a public that is sensitive to culture, cultural goods, to art. You're right. It's very important. Marx, however, continues: "As every product, the object of art creates a audience, which is sensitized to art and enjoys its beauty". Production, therefore, not only produces items for the subjects, but also subject to the articles. This is Charles Marx's saying. I'm very closely following the logic of your bill. By prompting artists to market logic, if your cultural policy succeeds, you will create a common incapable of appreciating works of art for whatever exceeds their exchange value. Only by prompting artists not to burn a pin for the price of their work will you create a audience who can see the art as something invaluable and finally be ready to pay as much for it. This is the great paradox. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that at the Party of Coupling - and more generally at the Memorandum of Understanding - you do not want a audience that can appreciate art for art. Adorno had described the gathered listener of music as someone who at the time is lost in it and who at that time is either a taxi worker or a university professor - he is a partaker in the process of music production. This idea of the focused, consistent listener of music or the audience of art frightens you. And you're right to scare you. Such a audience, a public that does not consume, but experiences art, lives art, is not easily manipulated. It is a common ready to resist the status quo, ready to resist misery, kits, parasitic oligarchy, especially this country. For you - reading your bill, in all good sense, but reading other bills by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health - art, education and health are judged to be of value, according to values that - de and well - must be measured, quantified through the alienated, abstract power of humanity. And what is the alienated, abstract power of mankind according to Marx? Money. In other words, anything that is not valued, for you it has no meaning in your bills. We're not ethers. We want money to be produced by artists and resources to be produced through the artistic community and sales of works at high prices we want and ticket sales able to maintain a theatrical performance, a film. But we want these as by-products and not as a purpose. For us art, education and health are an end in itself. They're not tools to achieve anything else, unlike you. This half-humanisation of recompense is what separates you from us. And you know what, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy? I say it again and you don't like it at all, but you have to take it very seriously because I think I'm right. You're not liberal. Pretend the liberals. I've referred to Adam Smith in here before, and I beg you to disprove me. For Adam Smith, the market, whether it's the orange or art market, is a tool. It's a very good and useful tool to buy. It is a tool to achieve other objectives, independent of the market, but social objectives. You see the market as an end in itself and not as a tool to achieve any other purpose. As an end in itself! Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have strayed from the path of liberal conservativeism. You have lost yourself in the jungle of the equalisation of society's tool to society itself. Everything in the market light of sound recompense. Anyone who reads diligently and objectively your bill will see. It is a more general approach. I'm sure you're thinking of the effectiveness of a hospital by how many profits it had or, potentially, it could have, a school by what a tuition tuition tuition may charge or what a potential tuition it could charge, how much a painting was sold or how much tickets it cut. This culture of misanthropic vulgarity is behind what we see almost every day in this House. It's a patriotic party, it's supposedly, the New Democracy, which serves the general sellout of everything. Here's the key to the question. Why are you doing all this? Why have you strayed from your ideology, political philosophy, moral philosophy? Because you are bound by a Kitch, parasitic oligarchy. This is what you represent here in the seat of the House and in the cabinet. Whether you sell red loans or sell the remnant to Corfu, or bring the bill for "ACROPOL", wherever we look, we see this Kitch aesthetic that your slavery and match with your parasitic oligarchy. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what does your mayor's "great walk" have to do with the exquisite hiking of a Stefanos Manos or a Costas Laliotis? In the past, the New Democracy has been involved in an oligarchy, of course, which had factories and produced things, with their problems, with their complications, with their ineffectiveness. But you were part of an urban class that produced laundry, iron, something. Today what produces? By the way, just because you had an affair with an urban class that produced laundry and iron, you had a Hatzidaki in the "Third Program". Today what produces, precisely, the parasitic oligarchy that you represent? Restructuring of red loans. You make packs of red loans, you put them in predators funds, and you also give a guarantee from the state, i.e. you charge more public debt to the backs of the world. This is the oligarchy that lies behind you and puts you behind it, and now you are redeeming the "lines". And what is the aesthetic you present on behalf of this parasitic oligarchy? The "great walk" of your mayor and the channels of calamity. The worst thing with your Kitch parasitic oligarchy is that it's not just anti-esthetic and obese, but it also applies to authoritarianism. We see within your bill talking about rejuvenation, generication, of the area. We at Mera25 are 100% in favour of upgrading the area, improving the area, making the area safer, making the area more beautiful for its inhabitants, for visitors, for tourists, for all. How will that happen, Minister? With a salesman and a cafeteria in "Acropolis"? How exactly will it be? What do we observe? We observe a dangerous revival in Victoria Square of those who became in the square of Agios Panteleimonas a period when the Golden Dawn was seeking to create demonstrations of supposedly angered residents in the context of the creation of that figure. It was the same Golden Dawn that helped the Ghazi region's "excitement" if you remember when they were building a terrorist organization, basically, the golden people were hired at the hour to prosecute foreigners, to prosecute various residents so that the area could be cleaned and bought by particular interests of Real Estate. Is it or isn't it true that your MP appeared next to a well-known golden man these days in Victoria Square? Is that what you mean by refining? We, you know, what do we mean by talking about reforestation? Introduce artistic lessons to children who live close to "Acropolis". To enable families living there, to the people who live there, to go to the High School of Fine Arts, to upgrade the High School of Fine Arts, to operate the National Museum of Contemporary Art. This is an upgrade for us. Ladies and gentlemen, let's close with a little Hippocrates: 'The short life, and the art long, the acid weather, the experience of mistakenness and the crisis.' Yes, the decision we make is full of responsibilities. You understand them as a procession by Kitch, parasitic, anti-liberal oligarchy. We see them in the face of cultural production and political culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute because I did not say anything by mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u154	Here you go, Mrs. Vaguea.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because at this meeting we were repeatedly accused of not knowing how to read, we do not know what else, I would like to say that the bill in Article 2 says: "In "ACROPOL AKROS" is awarded without consideration for ninety-nine years..." - I think it was now for twenty years - "... the use of the property of the former "ACROPOLE PALACE", which is located in Athens on the roads of October 28 - Patisia 51, Averof and Marni". Please very much, because I love the Greek language very much, Marni does not exist. We may not have gone to colleges, we may not be excellent, but we know the Greek language well. The road is Marnie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Baja. The last of the list of speakers is Mr. Ioannis Paschalidis from New Democracy. Let's not forget that you're from the beautiful Kavala. Here you go, Mr. Paschalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill introduces a new developmental cultural institution with many innovations in the structure, which are trying to create completely new data and challenges. ACROPOL ACROS is an international body that aims to enhance and promote Greek artists and artists and will be housed in the emblematic building of ACROPOL in Patisia. The creative and cultural sector and, of course, its professionals, the famous contemporary creative industries, finally find a support and promotion institution, which will be housed in one of the few remaining buildings of the Mesowar era. This bill precisely defines the nature, purpose and action of the new supervising body of the Ministry of Culture. He is the first institution of the Ministry that does not have an object of action, i.e. does not have a vertical action that is horizontal in the whole of modern culture and creative industries, that is to say, in all classical forms of culture but also in the younger and so far completely outlawed by the Greek state, such as fashion, design, photography and so on. The aim of the new organisation is to organise and participate in international exhibitions, as well as to conclude programmes or other contracts with public or private bodies in Greece and abroad. The aims of ACROPOL ACROS are also to carry out studies and research on participation in modern culture, as well as to organise actions, events and exhibitions both within the building and in the wider area. As far as the management of the institution is concerned, a director will be selected following a call for interest, and a board will be appointed, but it will enter the Greek public and international advisory committee for the first time. The decision to set up this committee reflects the general philosophy of "ACCOPOL ACROS", as well as its intention to become a model body. A central idea of introducing this institution is the creation of a committee involving well-known personalities, which, with their knowledge and international authority, will contribute both by bringing know-how and sources of funding. The Committee will not be organically and functionally linked to the body and will not be rewarded by it. I would also like to point out that the choice of the international body's housing in the building of Acropolis is not random. The unique glamorous building that is opposite the National Archaeological Museum and very close to the National Technical University will become the heart and together the bloodist of modern civilization. Thanks to the new body, it will also have a refreshment, a restaurant and a shop with a host of unique creations within the Patisian building. Thus, the citizens and thousands of visitors of the National Archaeological Museum will have another point of reference, visit and consumption at this point of the city. As mentioned above, the main objective of the organisation is the creation of a pool of artists, who will be qualified to show them to competent commanders of an artistic creative group. This is because artistic organizations often find it difficult to find a person who at the same time accumulates artistic value and administrative skills. Also, with this bill, the institution of the hospitality of artists and creators will be implemented in AKROPOL. This institution consists of enabling artists and artists from all over the world to live and work at a place outside their homes, in suitablely educated places, so that they can produce their artistic work for a certain period of time some months. Other actions of the new organisation are the organisation of field and study travel research involving international personalities, as well as support for the participation of national representatives in relevant international meetings, leading to the strengthening of links and increased opportunities for cooperation. The new body will also establish projects aimed at investigating the relationship between contemporary art and Greek tradition. Ladies and gentlemen, the use of ACROPOL is a major step forward in the growth of the creative and cultural sector both at national and European level. We support this draft law on its innovative arrangements, always thinking that every investment in the creative and cultural sector contributes decisively to the development of the national economy and the promotion of the modern face of Greece in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr Pascalides, for the time and the above. Be well. I will give the floor to the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mrs Styliani Mendoni. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA will then speak, Mr Marilissa Xinoyanakopoulou, and if the Minister wants to answer, he will of course have the floor. Mr. Bukkoro will talk later. I would like to point out that the procedure with the Minister's speech will not be closed here. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the Rules of Procedure. Five parliamentary amendments have been tabled, which are also one ministerial amendment, which was supported by the State Secretary for Health. The Ministerial Amendment of the Ministry of Health is accepted. As far as the legislative amendments are concerned: what Mr Kamine has already developed - was tabled by the Change Movement - to subsidise the unemployment of workers in tourism and food production is interesting. We'd love to see her. But there is a delay on the one hand and on the other, precisely because we did not know it in time, we did not have time to consult the relevant ministries and especially the Ministry of Finance. But we can move this debate forward and see how we deal with it. The amendment tabled to extend the term of office of the administrative bodies of the cultural associations is also a delay. Therefore, it cannot be accepted. We will see if we are going through a consultation, it can go ahead as well. Now before I go to the issue of 'ACPOL', the bill and other provisions, I have listened very carefully to what has been said - which, of course, were outside the scope of the draft law - and I will respond selectively to some of them. Because, if nothing else, it must be recorded in the Minutes of the House not only what is said or mentioned but the answers to them, so that the history of the future can also be judged in the final analysis. We were accused by the SYRIZA rapporteur of the first act we were doing, of the change of the Acropolis sergeant, yes, indeed, we changed the Acropolis sergeant, when we found that he was auditing and audited, while he was the manager of the Archaeological Resources Fund, and he was also a sergeant. That may at least be for SYRIZA's logic, but for our own reason it has a problem. Also, when an invitation was made to place a sergeant in the Acropolis, this person or someone else did not come as a candidate. He came just one candidate, which was symptomaticly a member of the IAEA. But there was no other candidate. We must now go to what you have accused us of, and which comes to an absolute contradiction with what you are saying, that we have moved a manager from the administration illegally and that is why justice has intervened. Evidently, justice didn't intervene. There's no temporary judicial protection. I don't know if it was requested, but in any case it was rejected, because nothing has arrived at the Ministry. And we moved her to the Directorate of Arts Education, precisely because we wanted to place particular emphasis on artistic education. And, as the decision to move it writes, precisely because it has competences, that's why it was moved to the other address of artistic education. So be a little careful about what we say. As for the Acropolis rider, it always refers to the scenes of 2018 and 2019, when it was only day-to-day, when students took their hands to bring them up to the rock. And of course, the rider would be in time, but the coronary broke through, and there were seventy-two working days that the factory was closed in Italy. Therefore, this objective can apply to anywhere else, to the SYRIZA MPs, but not to the Acropolis Library. You spoke of insufficient means to support artists during the pandemic period. I have answered dozens of questions, I have spoken from this Step to timely questions. The government has been supporting the professionals of the artistic sector from the very first moment, as it has supported all affected professionals. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Apart from the horizontal measures that have already been implemented since March, not to talk about delays, and have been extended to such an extent that, at the end of the day, those who have a mere insurance capacity, namely an income of EUR 2,022.5 in 12 months, have also been the package of development measures, which you might want to forget, but the notices are in the air. It is EUR 22 million for development measures, it is five of them that are already on the air. Previous ones are complete. Grants have been awarded for the theatre, dance, arts, video game development, design for the first time on the free market. The Greek Film Centre further received the usual funding of EUR 4.5 million 2,000,800, precisely to support people who were affected by the pandemic, and were first strengthened horizontally. It was given about 1.5m euros, it is in a process of disbursement, to the regions, precisely to strengthen the concerts, while we are in cooperation with the OAED and the Hellenic Foundation for Culture to strengthen the book, which simply had to resolve certain procedural issues. Now let's go to what Mr. Bernardakis said. We did not do the same with you in the field of collective management organisations. More specifically, you, with Law No 4491/2017, have set up a controversial legal form that operated as an OPI service, giving him a grant of EUR 3 million from the State General Accounting Reserve, raising issues of health competition. That is why serious complaints have been made. While you set up this state body, you have attempted by authorizing provisions that have no clear scope to transfer the property of the Greek State to the new collective management organisation. Your law was passed in 2017. Why have you not been authorised by the new NCA, that is, by July 2019? Because you said that we were eight months late by February 2020, and you had done nothing for twenty months. Why? Because you're mocking the creators. Because we authorised the new collective management organisation, the EMCDDA, as soon as it produced the sustainability report for which there is provision in your draft law. Also, the temporary manager of the EEAS, which we have defined, has made two major distributions that have benefited fully from the creators. On the contrary, your manager, Mrs Vlacho, resigned in October. Finally, we have set up a working group on a proposal from the IACs to examine a comprehensive support package. Representatives of the relevant Ministries of Finance and Development under the General Secretariat of Contemporary Culture shall participate in the working group together with representatives of the IACC. The committee is in the process, and it will soon be tabled. The plan you submitted on copyright was not just imperfect, but was intended to encroach on creators and creativity in a dead end. What we have done is through a specific and legitimate procedure to license the NCA and to close the particular structure that you have created. In addition, Mr Vernardakis told us that we are bringing a draft law to modern culture after a year of governance. But your three bills, supposedly concerning modern culture, were tabled four years late, which is why they did not have time to pass through the House. The theme of the Brandenburg Museum in Lesvos was also discussed. The Culture Ministers of SYRIZA were committed to taking care of the Brandenburg Museum and to state it. This was not the case on SYRIZA despite your commitments, and it was not because there were objective difficulties that we solve and the Branden Museum would be included in our next bill. And to finish with what is on the margins of today's draft law, to tell Mr Spanakis that Piraeus Street is obviously the second axis along with Syngrou, and certainly is an axis that must culturally be emerged. This would have happened if in 2015 the SYRIZA government had not stopped the process initiated by the then Minister of Culture, Mr Tasoulos, the current President of the Parliament, for the permanent housing of the Ministry of Culture and the Festival. This all stopped at SYRIZA. We have restored them and we are already in consultation with the National Bank, which belongs to the Tsausoglu complex, and soon we will be able to give an image of what we do in Piraeus. I also told the committees that culture is a deep political concept. In this sense, of course, the bill that we bring to Parliament is different from the SYRIZA bill, because we simply have a different concept, we have a different ideology. But let us not hide, it has been twelve months, but your culture policy, gentlemen of SYRIZA, as have the other policies been judged by the Greek people. I have said so several times, and I will say it today, your policy on culture has also been judged on the substance of the matter when of the five Ministers for Culture you had, the four were nominated and no one was elected to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u160	It's shameful to say that at the time you're appointed. You didn't get into the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u161	I didn't interrupt you. As I have already pointed out, with the proposed draft law we are making a programme commitment to the creation of a modern, flexible and, above all, model body that will help, strengthen and strengthen the artistic and creative world to learn, exploit opportunities, exploit financial tools, choose the technology, communicate both among its members and with the general public and be in constant contact with the international artistic and cultural become. I pointed it out at yesterday's sitting. The negative comments on "AKROPOL" are exhausted in a risk of commercialisation of art, which is supposed to occur, because the dangers between the aims of the new organisation are identified and the care to develop skills among members of the cultural and creative industries. This purpose was interpreted as our goal to transform artists and creators into managers and managers. We have been told, above all, by the Members of the Grand Representation, that artists are not at all interested in learning how to operate a business or how to operate within a business activity, and that, while their very reality disproves them, in view of the fact that, for years, artists have been trying to create with partnerships, whether they are collaborative musical patterns or joint art exhibitions. They also told us that artists are being thrown away and must be supported through grants and subsidies. But this does not abide by the objectives of 'ACROPOULOS'. I said it yesterday. The Ministry of Culture is not responsible for its responsibilities or obligations, if you wish. The fact that there may be reasons why artists should be financially strengthened by the state does not mean that their supply with the ability to effectively represent and manage their own artistic structures at the time of normality is unnecessary, unless we want artists permanently vulnerable, permanently in need. It is also a clear political choice. I am pleased, Mr Constantopoulos, that you have appreciated the establishment of ACROPOL as a positive step, notwithstanding the seat that each is sitting on. Thank you for having found support for the networking and interconnection between the creative sector itself, the provision of know-how in the movement of the creators' works and the development of policies of attraction to the public. I'm glad we agreed, too, that culture requires synergy. Of course I agree with you that the artist's profession is precarious and that there is a complexity of industrial relations in the field of culture. However, this precariousness aims to mitigate at least the specific purpose of ‘ACROPOULOS’. Let us not offend - and I am not talking about Mr Constantopoulos, moreover, several of his proposals have already been accepted - the artists by imprisoning them in a constant need to strengthen them by the state. Let us give them the opportunity to be the acquaintances and managers of their work, to be informed and to take advantage of opportunities, programmes, financial instruments and I think we will all be pleasantly surprised. I told you yesterday, culture according to international literature - I like to refer to international literature, which, if you like, I can give it very specifically - is clearly recognised as a distinct sector of the economy, which uses resources, produces goods and services, creates income and jobs. The economy of culture is increasingly concerned by states, scientific institutions and professional bodies. It is therefore not inconsistent with the concepts of culture and economy, as you are trying, as you are constantly trying to convince us. Unless we're talking about artists from another source. These are probably the lucky ones in the industry. But really, how many such artists do you know? Ladies and gentlemen, according to UNESCO - and I am not referring to any organization, I am referring to UNESCO - the cultural and creative industries are the most emerging economic sector. UNESCO tells us that the sensitive category of artists, with proper support, may not just survive economically but blossom, earn revenue, provide jobs thanks to the talent of creators. This is also the ambition of "Acropolis". All this, in your opinion, makes culture and art market products. But all I said before is not we, UNESCO says so, all the international organizations appreciate it, from the UN to the OECD. If you have any arguments to the contrary, we would be happy to hear them. Objections, however, not opposition self-spiritual dangers. If you do not have, help to create this entity. I insist, the results will surprise us all positively. Before entering the second part of the bill, I would like to make two - three observations. First of all, Mr Gregoriadis, in support of his complaint about the 'Acropolis', read half of the sentence from the first subparagraph of Article 7(2), which states that the appointment must be made in accordance with the provisions of 2190/1994, i.e. the AAC. We don't do them as the recruitments come from us, we do them via ASP, and after the approval decision of PSF 33/2006. ACROPOL therefore fully forms part of the public sector transparency rules. As for Mrs Asmakopoulou's concern, I repeat, because I have already said so, the remuneration of staff is based on the single wage, i.e. the number of people who are employed. They are not the wages that we determine, they are fixed by the single wage. In addition, there is no point in any relationship between ACROPOL and NGOs. To close this question, we have no cooperation with NGOs. Also, there are no post-mortem employees. No post-mortem official at the ‘ACROPOL’. Everyone is appointed by ASEP. Finally, because I have heard that in the bill we mention the word refining for the wider region, there is nowhere in the text the word refining. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Also, what we heard about EMST, obviously the EMST must act as such a body that will bring Greek art to the outside world. But the EMF's opened up. The NMS was taken as a building in February 2013. The SYRIZA government has done nothing for five years to open it. And the EMS opened up, according to our programming, before the end of February 2020. Finally, because there were two - three references to the design of the National Archaeological Museum and the wider regeneration of the region that allegedly does not go any further, you are making a very big mistake. It is one of the programming commitments of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. Obviously, we create the Triangle National Archaeological Museum - Polytechnics - "Acropolis". You told us we didn't know the check for the Polytechnic Constitution. But we never said - never said! - that reports of the National Archaeological Museum will be transferred to the Polytechnological School. From the beginning we have said that the Architecture School will continue to operate, which we want to work there. We have said that the Polytechnic will continue to manage it itself, because this has to be done. Already the Polytechnic at its administrative levels has made its first decisions on the Gine Building. We never said, then, that we would transfer the National Archaeological Museum to the Polytechnological School. We said, on the contrary, that the National Archaeological Museum will be extended in underground. I told you yesterday that all the spatial arrangements would come in September, which would make it easier for the scholars to do the right studies, so that we could finish an hour before the studies. And we have said that the National Archaeological Museum will be linked to "Acropolis", because it has to be linked. Because modern musical perceptions, all modern trends link classical culture, classical Greek culture and contemporary creation. Well, you don't listen, you don't read the Minutes. This is the third time I repeat this for the National Archaeological Museum. Now we're going to Part Two of the bill. I think that in some articles I don't even have to come back. Our rapporteur has said so too. I think I've exhausted the matter myself. I will be selective in Article 16, which regulates the issue of events that have been cancelled or postponed because of the pandemic. In particular, we provide the organiser with the opportunity to offer the customer, in other words the ticket, the equivalent credit note, which will apply to the monitoring of the postponed event itself, if any, or any other event that will take place up to 30-9-2021. Otherwise, the organiser returns the money to the holder of the credit note. It is clear that we are trying to strike a balance between one of the buyers, who gave his money for a performance which was not done on the one hand by the organisers, who are obviously unable to manage the immediate and overall reimbursement of the fees without being destroyed, and without their responsibility, since the pandemic was a superior violence. It is possible for one of us to wait to get back the money he gave for a ticket. After all, the majority of tickets, an average, do not exceed EUR 20 to 30. However, it is not possible to ask for these amounts on the one hand by all customers from the organiser suddenly and in total. I would point this out because it has been heard that we are legislating at the expense of customers. We must also have some measures and some limits on what we say. I will once again emphasise the importance of Article 17. With the legal arrangements we made in twenty years and gave full use to the National Museum of Contemporary Art, in return, in Fix Building. About Article 21, because various things have been heard for this reason, how and whether it will be served with posters, etc., but Article 21 does nothing but rationalise Article 10 of the A.D.4, 2018, which provided for an independent Press, Communication and View Department. We therefore allow the Press and View Department to do its job, and we create another Department of Ethics, which is necessary and exists in all the Ministries of Culture of the States of the European Union. They will be the same civil servants as they are serving. The only difference to be made is a division of authority in addition to the department's allowance, EUR 250. That's the difference. With regard to Article 22, which defines the Director of Thessaloniki as an administrative body, I will stress again that this is a position of such a burden and responsibility, which justifies its nature as an administrative body and the definition of its remuneration by means of a joint ministerial decision. We recognise the burden of this position and regulate the issue, without at all worrying that the person who holds the post was appointed by SYRIZA and without a notice. Because SYRIZA did notices wherever he wanted. In many other cases he appointed. There was no problem there. I repeat, the notices you made were without legal authority. In too many cases your institutions had charged themselves with photographic arrangements. So let's go down. In Article 23, the responsibilities of the Board of Directors of the Hellenic Film Centre are extended and issues are regulated on how to recruit, cover posts through extracts and assign a project in accordance with Law 4412/2016. With Article 24, we are setting up a position of administrative director to every legal person, whose primary purpose is artistic and cultural, in particular museums and theatres. With this arrangement we are satisfying a request from the already serving artistic directors, as the administrative and financial directors will take over the supervision and coordination of administrative and financial services, while artistic directors will now be able to carry out their artistic and scientific work without being responsible for administrative burdens. Finally, on Article 20, which regulates the issue of the licence to be obtained from the Ministry of Culture, in order to portray a monument, that is to say, in order to photograph it, videotape it, to disseminate the photos or video to the public. The most impressive of what has been heard is that those who do not agree, do not agree exactly and why they do not agree. For example, some have accused us of having to free ourselves from the obligation to pay a fee to the imagery of monuments. Some of us have been accused of carrying the monuments. This is a contradiction. So I'll talk to you all over again. The regulation we are proposing repeats precisely the current regulation, which is currently in force, on the authorisation of a fee in favour of the Archaeological Resources Fund. Regarding the possibility for individuals to produce accurate copies, for which Mr Skouriac has asked me to reply with a yes or no, but when I told him not rather mad, I say, and I repeat. Oh, no! It is clear and unequivocal that such a possibility is not provided. I've said it many times, I say it another. Oh, no! A private person cannot produce an exact copy of a monument. And if he does it illegally, he's facing imprisonment. This is already provided for in existing regulations and we do not change that. Make it hard to read the layout. It is clear that it is made clear. I answer again to you, Mrs. Christidou. This is where Byzantine monuments don't stay unprotected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u162	I didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u163	You said yesterday. You've been arguing all this time about Byzantine monuments. How do we do it? Let's get her a little inspiring. The provision permits the monuments belonging to the Greek State and the Byzantine monuments belong to the Greek State by law. You have misunderstood me telling you that you have not read the provision. Look, I didn't tell you that you don't know how to read, as you complained about. I read the Minutes at once. I told you quite precisely that you have not read the provision. Go back to the Minutes and I'll be confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u164	I've been on my way. You didn't say that, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u165	I am sorry, honestly, but with all due respect, I will tell you again: you have not read the provision or other Members of your party who have spoken. If you'd read it, you'd see that exact copies are forbidden to produce privately. The order is clear. If you'd read it, you'd see that all the public-owned monuments fall under the order. If you had read it, you would have seen that unlike what you told us yesterday - and there are recorded in the Minutes - we are not allowed to scan to produce a three-dimensional model without permission, even if this scanning is not profitable. Read the layout. With regard to the reduction of revenue that has been so sad to you, I would once again say that the current rules provide for an exemption from the payment of a fee under a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Finance and Culture. We're not changing that either. We don't change it, what do we do? Therefore, no reduction in revenue comes from the proposed regulation, since the possibility of exemption from the fee is already foreseen. You are constantly referring to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State, which speaks of a loss of revenue. Why are you trying to insult us so much of our intelligence? In this Chamber, we all know that the General Accounting Office makes such an assessment in all the provisions of budgetary interest. The proposed regulation, in fact, provides for exemption from the payment of fees. However, I repeat that this provision is not an innovation of the draft law. This exemption is provided for in the existing provision, which we neither amend nor repeal. In so far as the possibility of exemption is still in place in that provision, it is easy for the General Accounting Office to point out any loss of revenue. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] Mr President, you will allow me to finish. I didn't talk at all while I could. I want to finish what I have to say for this particular article. It continues, of course, by saying that, as a result of the proposed arrangements, there will be an increase in revenue from the payment of a fee for the granting of a licence for cultural or other events. You, this question of the second paragraph, of the increase in revenue, are diligently hiding it. So please do not constantly try to impress at least on procedural issues, which are well known in Parliament. To finish with Article 20, what is the new element it introduces? The new element it introduces is that it defines the notion of monument imaging, according to the suggestion and opinion of the Legal Council of the State, in such a way that it is clear that it does not need to seek permission from the Ministry of Culture to pay fees the artist, who is inspired to paint a monument. Why don't we? Because it is forbidden by the constitutional freedom of art and the copyright of intellectual creation. Also, there is no need for permission and payment of the fee to every citizen who makes a picture of him in the social media in front of a monument. Why don't we? Because monuments are and must be part of our social life. That's the only way they're really protected. Commenting on the position of the SYRIZA rapporteur for a ministerial decision, I quote: The arrangements are introduced into the real and legal world by law and not by ministerial decisions, because that is what you said 'Why we are not making ministerial decisions'. Therefore, the proposal that you told us to introduce arrangements with ministerial decisions, instead of changing the law, can be justified when it comes from the officials of the Ministry of Culture - because in their document you read it to us - it is not justified to adopt this by a Member of Parliament. We also heard that we did not call the experts, namely the Association of Greek Archaeologists, the trade union of workers at the Ministry of Culture. But we heard the experts because this article was not made on our own. I didn't write it myself or my legal advisers. This article proposed a mot à mot committee set up by the Ministry and composed of service actors, archaeologists with positions of responsibility by some of them and by members of the Board of Law of the State. This committee came up with the text, which we incorporated into the draft law after sixteen sessions. Amongst what the Commission has taken into account is the views expressed on the subject of illustrations at a special meeting of the Central Archaeological Council held on SYRIZA. The SYRIZA Government has asked the Central Council to give its opinion. At this meeting, therefore, members of the CSCE, who are extremely diverse members of the scientific community, have tabled exactly what we are proposing, namely that a true picture of the monument should be subjected to permission, but not to the imaginary performance of this. At this particular meeting of the Central Archaeological Council - when it took place - he asked for the Greek Archaeologists' Association to be present - with its chairman and fund. What did they testify for? "In case the representations are fantastic, fantastic, it's something that doesn't bother us, for example, a painter portrays the Temple of the Most Neutral Nike" and that where we have to focus it is the commercial use, which he renders, to make money out of the monument. That is exactly what the proposed regulation does. Mr. Friends told us that the existing provision provided for a permit and a fee for displaying with a commercial purpose "The young lighting on facevbook had no commercial purpose, so he was ensured by the provision and therefore did not need to change the article." You're wrong. The existing provision provides for a licence and a fee for each case of dissemination to the public of monuments, irrespective of the commercial purpose. If the proliferation was a commercial purpose, then a lack of permission was also a criminal offence. Consequently, the existing provision did not provide for a young person who was illegal and who did not have a commercial purpose. The archaeological law, Law No 3028/2002 - because we heard you constantly invoking it - has fully integrated international conventions and attaches particular importance to the protection and promotion of cultural heritage, to the promotion and dissemination of our cultural assets, precisely because the comprehensive protection of the cultural stock of the country, during the international literature and international conventions that our country has ratified, involves the dissemination and socialisation of the cultural stock. I told you yesterday that I had the luck and the honour of taking an active part in the drafting of Law 3028. So I know him. I know very well the importance of his orders. So this is the dimension of the socialisation of the cultural stock, this component is shown by the regulation of Article 20, without any discount on the protection of our monumental wealth and without any discount on the public interest. So don't threaten me that at some point I have to apologize for that. I have been supporting the public interest for many years since I have been in public life. Everyone has his story in this place and everyone can, without a particular difficulty, defend their choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Minister. I now call on the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that now that a New Democracy year has ended there are some general features. These general features are seen in every policy area, and we are unfortunately also seeing them in the area of culture and creativity. These are features, on the one hand, which have a concept of purely neoliberal, in terms of the functioning of the economy, society and work - we also see the crisis as an opportunity to dismantle the labour relations and to reason who survives and the immunity of the herd - and, on the other, we see a failure to have an integrated plan. In fact, all these choices - here, Minister, I would like to say that they are not personal, which is addressed to you, are all aimed at a government policy - ultimately affecting the public interest. Because the public interest in the end is a concept which also receives a specific content. In our view, the public interest is affected, when privatization is made inextricably privatised. It raises the public interest, when at the moment there is one logic, which you said is a different conception of culture, as there is also around the economy. It affects the public interest, when it is not protected in the way we believe - which in all previous years the governments have protected - our culture, heritage and monuments in our country. The truth is that during the time of the crisis, the government has shown great inadequacy and has chosen how to deal with it. It did not take forward measures, it did not support work and, of course, we are now seeing the consequences with the constant corrective moves and the expansion of the recession. But it is also true, Minister, that there has been a very long delay in the area of culture, artists and workers in culture, which are thousands. That's not something we say, just to have an opposition. It was a cry of agony at the time, when in the first steps, the Prime Minister announced at the time, there was no provision for the world of culture. There had to be great mobilisations, although it was a pandemic, then SYRIZA had to come to the House and the other parties of anti-population and put this intensification into place, so that some measures could be taken delayed, which, of course, were not able to support the artists at the moment. There are too many complaints and complaints about the procedures that have been followed, and not all these support measures have reached too many. The question of small theatrical enterprises, which have not taken the slightest of all these grants over so many months, has been referred to to to me, and we have also seen it as a whole from the measures, which are sometimes announced by the government. For our part, from the outset, we have raised the issue of supporting artists and workers in culture as a whole, which is particularly affected this whole Quartet, which is going through this difficult summer. We said there needed to be a brave package of support for culture and workers in it. We have said that there must be aid which is non-refundable, in terms of the operation of these operations, which you are talking about in the artistic area. We said that artists and workers should really and essentially be supported, not just by horizontal measures, but in particular by these invisible civilization workers, who are actually in full precarious. We have also made concrete proposals there for an extraordinary social income which could from the country's budgetary capacity actually be made within this overall effort. We have proposed, even in the development bank, that there should be a special fund for the area of culture and creation. Unfortunately, none of this has been heard and the consequences in the area of culture, as in tourism, but also in the economy as a whole. But I'll come to the bill now. Our rapporteur, Mrs Christidou, has done a very thorough analysis and, in fact, on the draft law as a whole, so I will not go into details, because there are all the SYRIZA colleagues who have spoken about all these issues. I would like to focus on two main issues. One is also a matter of philosophy, the second is a matter of public interest. The first issue concerns 'Acropolis'. We have heard a lot from the majority Members. The rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, is also present. SYRIZA's proposal to the draft law was specific. We saw AKROPOL as a public institution for a centre of culture, creativity and art. It is none of the things that we have heard here, which they are trying to deceive, both the feasibility and the objective that our proposal had. For just as there are too many centres of culture, which are worthy of either private institutions or of private initiative - no one is opposed and many of them are very important - but in a democratic state there must also be public institutions that really support the possibility of creation and art. This is what we envisioned through the draft law on "Acropolis". You come here and bring in a legislative provision, which many colleagues have said very well, with a conception of entrepreneurship in culture, which has nothing to do with the concept of creativity and culture. Of course, if you were to judge and if you were to convince us that there is a need for artists, people of culture around various issues of Community programmes and funding, there are the relevant directorates of the Ministry. There could be information there, indeed, if some artistic shapes are needed to make use of such possibilities. You did not need to build such a whole institution within "Acropolis", without doing what is needed today, a public institution. But here, I want to say something, dear Mr. Loverdo, because I know you like history. It is not true that in the democratic state cultural support is manipulation and state control. On the contrary. Does art history show that the art that has always been based? There was manipulation and control in the Middle Ages and Renaissance, from the church and feudal rulers, then from the royal and imperial courtyards and from the powerful money and just after the French Revolution and the modern democratic political state, there began to be the concept of public support for culture, so liberation. This is where I want to make a report. They've been closing this year for two hundred and fifty years since Beethoven was born. Beethoven was the genuine child of romance and revolutionary period following the French Revolution. He was the first great artist, who then opposed the patronage of the powerful feudalists and paid the cost. So having a concept of culture, as a coordinate state, and really supporting it with artistic education, supporting it with potential and institutions, is not manipulation. It's liberation of art and culture. You know very well, Minister, and of course the majority colleagues, that even in countries with a very neoliberal perception, such as the Anglo-Saxon countries, there are public institutions for their Lyceum, for the National Theatre, for the National Libraries, precisely because even where there is a strong neoliberal perception there is the concept of public intervention and the institution for art and culture. I come to the second major issue. That is where it comes up in public interest, according to our own perception, and I believe that it was expressed to the attention of all parties in opposition. Minister, I have to say that while the New Democracy MPs were very much aware of the issue of 'Acropolis', with their own perception and philosophy, they were not placed on Articles 20 and 25. There it is clear that there is a discomfort, because that is not a question of ideological difference. There is a clear change in the legislative framework in place since 2002, which has provided specific protection. It's not true there's no change. It is clear that there are changes. Of course, as has been said, the problem is not the tourist, who will take a picture of his phone, nor the foreign student with the backpack, who will take a picture and post Facebook. For God's sake! That's not the point. The question here is that you come and reduce protection and harm the public interest, on the one hand, because there is a loss of revenue, but there is something else, which is very important in terms of the public interest, that there is no longer supervision, control over the use of all these results, which are now allowed. I mean, you're going to the narrow logic of imaging and you're pulling out the representation. There was a full analysis of what that means. So there the revenues are lost, and you don't care about the use. Clearly, it is not about the student and the tourist, when you come and change the indirect economic and commercial consistency with the word of profit, and this has been sufficiently analysed. Of course, as far as faithful copies are concerned, you said that they remain on the verb of the arrangement. But you are putting a word into this article, which, in fact, you are opening the window in the future, so that there is also circumvention here. You will allow me to close - because, as you said, Minister, we have to speak precisely about both the Minutes and the Greek people who are being informed about the history of the future - by saying that this is not the case, as you told us in relation to the Minister of SYRIZA Mr Zorba and the case at that time with the advertising campaign 'COCA-COLA'. Mrs Vetta has also tabled the Minister's decision on this matter and on the document sent by the Directorate-General for New Monuments. We must be clear here. From this same decision, as well as from the document of the Office of the Minister of Culture, Mr Zorba, it is clear that advertising signs were posted in May 2019. On May 20, 2019, there is the company's request - there are the protocols - to the Antiquities Committee. Immediately, Mrs Zorba's office reacted, that is, immediately on June 26th, demanded that there should be a debate on this matter in both the Directorates-General and the two were responsible because, as you know, it was not just the ancient monuments, it was not just the Parthenon or Rotounda of Thessaloniki, it was also the House building, which belongs to the newer monuments. In fact, the document submitted clearly shows with regard to the Directorate-General for New Monuments that there was neither such a request nor that it was covered. More clearly, this investigation has not continued and an interpretation of the political leadership has been made, and it has also been based on an opinion of the relevant Department of the Legal Council of the State on Diversification and Representation. But it is clear that the 2002 Act did not cover that. That is why - among other things - you are coming today and you are now generalizing it for all cases. That's all for the Minutes. We call on you, even now, to withdraw Articles 20 and 25. We are voting against them and we believe that they really affect the public interest in every sense and will be a bad moment in protecting monuments. You said you had a committee. No one disputes that. But you saw today that the Association of Greek Archaeologists clearly disagrees, has very important elements and unfortunately, although we insisted on the committee, they were never invited to say their views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. The Minister has asked for the floor to answer something. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u169	I have listened very carefully to what Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos said. I shall start by saying a few words about what you said about the delayed reaction to the artists in the pandemic. You know, we presented the development package on 2 April. Lockdown took place on 12,13 March. We presented a development package on 2 April. If we had been late, we would not have been ready on 2 April to say so in so much detail. On 2 April we presented all the cultural professions of the CAR. If we had been late, we would not be ready to do so. The beneficiaries of the first package of horizontal measures, which were dealt with immediately by the Government, were forty-five thousand companies and civil servants. That's all about the matter of the delayed reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u170	They were workers. It wasn't business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u171	I also have another point: according to valid information we had from the Ministry of Labour, the beneficiaries of the 'ERGANI' scheme, since we opened the perimeter for the EUR 800 bonus, are more than twenty-five thousand. Do you know how many people have made their applications to get paid? Less than two thousand. That is why we have asked the Ministry of Labour to extend the period until 31 July, if there are any more. That's what troubles me. I suppose it should worry about you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u172	I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u173	You said you were notified by some small theatrical businesses that they haven't been subsidised. This is a very well-known fact that we have doubled the subsidy for AMCs, for theatre businesses - especially for the theatrical businesses - precisely because of the pandemic, from 1 million planned, we did 2 million. Most small theatrical enterprises are AMKE. All AMEs have been financed. Tell me the 2,000 we gave is very little money. That's another story. However, all AMIs are entitled to financing horizontally. I've signed too many such decisions. Those who bring their documents to the service are paid. Invisible workers. Of course, unseen workers. We talked yesterday and the day before yesterday about gray and black paper. I did not see during the five-year period of SYRIZA doing anything in this direction. It's all the rest of us before and after. But I did not see in all five years that there were arrangements to limit black and grey work in the artistic world. We went ahead and said that we constituted the Register of Artists and Creators, of people who are generally working in cultural professions. The record is open. He may have problems, and that is why we are trying to solve them with the Ministry of Labour, because it is the first time that we have done so. We're theoretically counting the industry around a hundred thousand. The record until last week was only six thousand. Why is that? I would also like to say two words on 'Acropolis'. Of course, they need special funds. Of course, they need financial tools. Of course, it needs cooperation with the Development Bank. But all this is provided for in the 'Acropolis'. Why, even if you do not agree, "ACROPOL" is a public institution, it is a public body, such as all legal persons of the Ministry of Culture. Article 20, I think we've run out of coron. As to what you said about correspondence between the Ministry's services, the Minister's office and Mrs Zorba, I said that I did not say anything different. I said that at the end, Mrs Zorba because it proved that the permits were granted by the agencies - because there was no institutional framework - a ministerial decision was made. I'm not questioning her. It was, however, a legal authority. You have nursed in ministerial positions and you know that if we are not authorised we cannot make ministerial decisions. Therefore, the alleged revenues that have been lost could not be lost, because there was no institutionalized logic of the representation. So that we don't create more shadows in what we're talking about. I, too, fully agree that everything must be said in the House. In 2002 it became the archaeological law. He's a wise and righteous law. I'm the man who'll say it by the last minute. It is a law which has been judged in scientific fora as the best law for protecting cultural heritage in Europe and not just. In 2002 the technology was eighteen years back. In the eighteen years between technology has jumped. When in 2002, with the then Minister of Culture we brought the archaeological law of 3028 to the House, your party then opposed it, because it was passionately supporting the correctness of Law 5351/1932. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u175	You don't have to. You said, there have been clear answers from the Minister. We don't all agree. We are closing down with Mr Boukoro, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u176	Excuse me, Mr. President. They didn't exist. Please. My name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u177	Here, what do you want? You can't take the floor. There was no personal matter. There is no possibility from the Rules of Procedure. If you want something that you didn't understand, you'll finally ask the Minister straight away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u178	privately, may I ask her? My name was mentioned and the wrong impression arises.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u179	Now you can't take the floor. In the same way, everyone could. Mr. Bukkaro, start. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. The sensitivity of Mrs Bagena is given, but the procedures and the Rules of Parliament are also given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u181	And that means that whoever talks last has the same. Whoever doesn't speak last can't defend himself. That's a very nice process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u182	I will not need all the time, Mr President, just as long as there is quiet in the Chamber. After all, the Minister gave me great pleasure in this fact - she literally left nothing to fall down. It responded to every point, to the individual Member, to each rapporteur on all the issues raised, on all the articles of the bill and, in particular, on the second part, on which there are different approaches. I see the Civic Opposition to see that it has suffered a blow because of the pandemic and the cultural product produced. That is a fact, Mr President. All sectors of the economy were severely affected. But I see the Civic Opposition to slowly plunge but firmly into a kind of opposition, which attempts to incriminate the government's pandemic's financial footprint. Soon they'll blame us for building the virus in the basement of Big Maximus. It is not seen by colleagues from the Officerate that in the first quarter of 2020 at least the recession in our country, in relation to the European average of recession, was much less, in one quarter. Of course, this lanes will be closed next and next quarters. We all know that. But let us not be sure of the appreciations. On the issue of the bill, it would be well to be more responsible when we say that the government - the government that collected credit for managing the pandemic! - the Greek people in a reasonable immunity of the herd. Why does the Qualified Opposition not say directly here in Parliament: close the borders, keep tourism from working at all?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u183	No, Mr Colleague, we said: the economy. Not to health.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u184	In the economy. I told you with figures before that this was not the case. I have told you, however, that I hear many colleagues from Anti-Population saying that it is contradictory that it is the policy to take measures within the country and, on the other hand, to open the border to British tourists. Why is this policy contradictory when the tests for tests have been multiplied? In any case, those who say and support it, but with arguments that it is contradictory to such a policy, let us also make the proposal for a total lockdown. We said this wouldn't happen. The whole issue will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, because the country must open up, the economy and tourism must work to the extent that they can work this difficult year and the damage must be reduced. For the bill now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one-dimensional policies can also be attributed to culture. The Minister clearly said that he is not renounced by ACROPOL the Ministry of Culture. What it has supported and what it has supported up to now will continue to support it in this context. However, the press's view that cultural production and the artistic world, the spiritual world of the country must be supported solely by state funds, is that we are not in agreement, and indeed, a different approach has emerged and a great ideological difference in this matter. Of course, the state is not renounced. Of course, the state must also create those tools - that is what the bill on 'ACCOPOL' does - which will enable artists, not merchandise their artistic product and spiritual searches, as - if you wish - that may be the abrupt of these tools - but all these tools which create the bill will enable them to increase their record. If this also brings economic benefits, I do not think it is negative on the issue of cultural production. In any case, our views are in favour of sponsorship, but at the same time, they are far too far away from militant art. We've lived seasons of militant art from many and various regimes. Our logic is not. If only financial resource support of the land's spiritual life is state revenue, we go to other side effects and to other pathogens: To whom are subsidised, how subsidised, how subsidized, how good they are to those who share funds and another number of pathologies that we have seen in various historical times and in various historical phases. So this bill is coming from the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of State, Mr. Mendoni, to work healing and give alternatives. When alternatives are given to difficult times, such as those we are going through, they work cumulatively, cumulatively and do not insult the spiritual world, nor do they provide the cultural product, but they strengthen the production of the cultural product. That's exactly what the bill does, according to our own perceptions. I would like to thank the Minister once again for actually answering every question that he has heard in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'Centre of Culture and Creation 'Acropolis' and other provisions' is adjourned. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of twenty-six articles, of an amendment, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time, four articles appear on the screen. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right-hand side of the screen the number of articles remaining for voting is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u187	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Centre for Culture and Creation Acropolis and other provisions" was accepted in principle by the articles and by a majority of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u190	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-16-S1-commons.u191	With the consent of the House at 17.47 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 17 July 2020 at 9: 00, on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, (a) a debate on topical questions, and (b) a debate on Question No 24/13/26-6-2020 on the agenda.
