ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 5 March 2020. ‘A. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 553/28-2-2020, a topical question by MP B3 South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The implementation of Law 4538/2018 on the assumption and adoption is delayed." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 550/25-2-2020 by the Member of Parliament of the Ilias of Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Amendment of Law 456/1976 on pyrotechnic articles'. 3. The Question No 560/3-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The structures of the Creative Employment Centres for Children (CDEs) and Creative Employment Centres for Children with Disabilities (CDEs)". 4. The question by No 552/27-2-2020 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Revenge of damages for the Dieselgate scandal". 5. The Question No 561/3-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The right to a temporary pension for insured persons with a working time abroad". B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The question under number 556/28-2-2020 was raised by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christoforou Vernardakis to the Minister of Justice, entitled “Independent Offices for the Protection of Adult Victims – “Home of the Child”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 567/3-2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Papapas to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Standard for growth and jobs, the freezing of major infrastructure projects'. 3. Evangelia Lykoulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: “Aid for conversion into organic practices and methods in agriculture in 2017”. 4. The Question No 542/25-2-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Contracts working in the cleanliness of schools". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Measures to improve the conditions for the marketing of craft roads". 6. The question under number 543/25-2-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Releases of workers following the revision of SAC 3K/2018 tables for the recruitment of regular staff to the municipalities". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Greek Chrysos SA compensation", due to its delay in complying with the conditions of the investment project provided for in the contract." 8. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: "Privatization risk of Afantos beach being privatised through the falsification of maps." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Investing in the "Nagio" region of Zakynthos. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food 'Agrarian Cooperatives and other provisions'. Before I give the floor to V Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-four students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th General School of Korydalou. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law we are debating comes as a follow-up to previous legislative interventions and seeks to complete loose ends and what was gradually legislated, slowly, step by step. But at their core all these bills, like today, what we are talking about, have a common objective. The aim is to clear up agricultural cooperatives on the grounds of the deep institutional and economic crisis - as stated in the explanatory statement - on the one hand, with the final solution and clearing up of those associations that were unable to survive on the other hand with the exploitation, exploitation and at the same time the sale of assets - which are many and notable - to investors, business groups and large-scale farmers. At the same time, it helps to tighten the nipple around the neck of small- and medium-sized bio-palers - who are struggling, struggling to stay on their land and claim solutions in order not to be thrown out of their fields. Thus, not only does the government maintain, but it enhances the possibilities of the current institutional framework for converting agricultural cooperatives into public limited companies of investors and shareholders, strengthens the accessibility of large companies and legal persons, and further promotes the possibility of business partnerships between agricultural cooperatives and business groups. So, with a tool and the bill we are debating, the strategic planning is promoted - an objective of the European Union, a government in our country, as well as through the common agricultural policy and other measures taken and taken - to concentrate the land and by extension of production, marketing, processing and subsidies, on a few hands - either businessmen or farmers - through the creation of large business units. Of course, as it is expected, but also necessary to shield the business of the units, the corresponding arrangements are laid down for the possibility of the establishment and operation of these schemes - that is, capitalist enterprises called 'agricultural cooperatives' - in order to create confusion not only with farmers but also with the people - up to issues relating to financing, investment, large-scale venture capitalists, and so on, but also with a percentage of shares, tax exemptions and others. What are you trying to achieve, then, through the capital associations of public limited companies, cooperatives as you say them? The abundance of agricultural cooperatives more directly, faster than capitalist investors, who will be fruitful as investors of cheaper raw materials, which will be needed and which will be secured by attracting farmers around the new schemes, while investment incentives are provided for them, as well as the possibility of exploiting infrastructure, property, warehouses, packages, printing and others belonging to the cooperatives. In other words, do everything in your power for the good of investors, while for the vast majority of small and medium-sized farmers the deterioration of their position will continue further. However, the bill under no circumstances and does not want and cannot deal with the intensified problems of the self-employed rural bio-opportunists, who are struggling to stay on their land and produce. They are all those who are on the way to the struggle, with requests for survival, known to all of you, who are crushed and led to the climax, because this requires the capitalist path of development, the competitiveness and profitability of the few, which all the parties with your policies are serving, regardless of any administrative differences you have and precisely this policy, to set the target, both the farmers and farmers who are being denounced and the workers in the rural economy, with the aim of another development that will have at their heart to ensure the nutritional needs of the workers, the people's classes, the majority of our people. And it is true, since you say, on behalf of the government and Members of Parliament, that we heard yesterday's sitting - and you are saying that the aim is, through these new schemes of public limited companies, to help the farmer, the primary sector and so on, because, for example, I shall refer to a single, because it is also recent - you have in fact banned the name in tsipouro, tsikoudia and its bulk disposal by imposing fines of EUR 1 000 on the mass caterpillar shops and, in fact, you are leading to the despair and impasse of the vineyard growers, who have had even this possibility of an extra income with the production of bulk tsipou, tsipoudia. And we are talking about small and medium-sized wine growers, who, with a thousand sufferings, are trying to keep them in their fields and to whom they are electionfully - at least, as far as Larissa is concerned - the Members of the ruling party have said. That is why we say that the farmers who have drawn conclusions will have to determine their course and attitude in the future. We are also asking for this step, because this issue has also been brought to parliamentary scrutiny. Although there was an indirect admission, not only of the problem, but also of the fact that it should be resolved, we are asking for the withdrawal of the specific circular which I am passing away was the initiative of the Greek Government and not the suggestion of instructions. So we call for the withdrawal immediately of this carpentry so that the bulk of cigarettes, respectively, can continue to be released without hindrance. Finally, I am going to refer to an amendment which we tabled and which we ask the government to allow it to be accepted by the other parties to vote in favour of. It is an amendment to address the problems of workers in the rural cooperative associations that have been set up or which are to be wound up so that workers with the quickest possible liquidation can meet their enormous needs, since the majority of them and because of their age, since they have been made redundant, cannot find jobs and, of course, they cannot collect their claims against cooperative organisations. Yes, to precede the repayment of debts, accrued, compensated, etc., and then followed by the various, the Greek State, the insurance funds, the credit institutions, etc. Like workers under contracts of employment in liquidation associations or those who are removed from the register and who cease to operate, they may, as a matter of priority, be absorbed by other active cooperatives. Here, let us note that we have reappeared - and recently, but also with the previous government - in a series of parliamentary interventions, in the context of parliamentary control, our party has raised this issue in various ministries, finance, rural development, labour. Of all the ministers and the previous government, but now, what we have received is yes, it is right to demand that we look at it and need legislative intervention. So here is Rhodes, with the amendment tabled by the Communist Party of Greece, doing what is to be done in common. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u3	Mr Christos Kelles is now called by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days our country has been faced with a historic challenge, to which we must respond with unity. And I want to express my gratitude to the men of police and military for the battle they give Evros, keeping our borders under unprecedented conditions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an asymmetrical threat, not refugees, but immigrants and organised groups trying to invade our country, using chemical and other weapons. These are groups used by Turkey as a lever for pressure. For the first time, we have the official state of Turkey as an immigrant. The Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has promised by election to Greek women and Greeks that we will guard the borders of the country and that is what we are doing today, defending the country's integrity. We don't even take a step back. I'm coming to the bill. This is another pre-election commitment that is being made. The development of the region and the primary sector are national priorities. To this end, the Ministry of Rural Development brings together a set of regulations that strengthen rural entrepreneurship, innovation and extrovertion, through modernising the framework of agricultural cooperatives, which is becoming more effective, favouring the synergies of our farmers. First of all, it is extremely important that forecasts are introduced to give breath to specific categories of income. Firstly, the capital of agricultural cooperatives is set at a minimum EUR 10 000. Secondly, there is the possibility of funding either by cooperatives or by third-party legal persons, in the form of loans of up to EUR 25 000 in total, for each partner. Thirdly, the establishment of cooperatives is becoming flexible. The 20 founding members who so far needed to establish a cooperative are reduced to 10, and the recommendation with fewer members, under 10, is possible, when special conditions exist, such as in mountain or island areas with less than 3,500 inhabitants or when production concerns specific products. Fourthly, the establishment process is considerably simplified, since the statute is no longer adopted by the courts, but by the Ministry of Rural Development, in which case neither the cooperatives nor the courts are charged. Fifthly, the possibility of participation in investors not exceeding 35% of all members' votes, while protecting the interests of producers. Sixth, it redefines the tax regime governing the operation of cooperatives and enables a special reserve to be formed from surpluses or profits, which will not be taxed, while the profit distributed to members will be taxed as dividends, in accordance with the applicable tax legislation. Particularly important is the establishment of the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives, ETHA, a legal person governed by private law of a non-profit nature, which will be the coordinator of agricultural cooperatives. I would like to take this step, Minister, to highlight a number of issues that we have discussed in committee as well. It is right to regulate for the members of the administrations of the former NCAs for a five-year suspension of the prosecutions and publications of their property. However, you should definitely also take care of the workers in the former NCAs who are being wound up. It is money earned, people are in a bad financial situation and according to law 4384/2016 that SYRIZA had voted for, banks, insurance funds and the public sector are prioritised. So these people will take nothing, as they are in the fourth place. Once again, I will raise the issue of the almond producers of Larissa Prefecture, who have suffered total destruction with the 2019 frost. And that's certified by the official ELGA. These people, Minister, have been subject to the 'DE MINIMIS' programme by your own decision and have taken 80 euros before Christmas. But 80 euros per acre do not even cover their minimum costs. I would therefore ask you to review either their supplementary submission to the PESA or the next 'DE MINIMIS' to reintroduce a rate of compensation. In closing, I will come to a big subject, which threatens whole villages to perish. Measure 8.1 of the ‘land afforestation’, as amended by Joint Ministerial Decision No 800/16-1-2015, is a programme launched before 2000. And in this respect, Minister, we have this paradoxical: Those who were checked or checked out after January 2015 KHS continue to receive support from the program, while those who checked before 2015 and who were not found well, cut the grants and with documents that came just a few months ago - 2019 - are asking them to return and all the money they have received. As you can see, we have two standards to deal with. I understand that the problem is legally complicated. But, Minister, if you, a distinguished lawyer, cannot solve it, then who can solve it? So I want you to lean on the subject and see it. It's a big deal. It is not only about the great Eleftherios village in Larissa, it is not about the villages of the Farsalon region. It concerns large areas throughout Greece. And they all look forward to you, because you have the legal skills and you can give it a solution. Finally, I'll say one more thing. Apples, pears and quinces are included in the category of apples. A “brainling brain” in 2017 cut out of subsidies from the associated pears. Why? Why don't they get the pears attached? Aren't they apples?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u5	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u6	Am I right, Mr. Catarini?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u7	We're not talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u8	Here, it's a cross-party requirement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u9	You know, I'm connected. It comes from somewhere else, so we can get to know each other. Why are we "large" to put...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u10	Well, ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural cooperatives bill is a tool for our farmers, a reliable instrument by which they can support their production and form their own networks of autonomous trading of high-quality products, refreshing the Greek countryside. That is why we will be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis is called by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is another proof that the New Democracy has not come to solve the problems of the place, in this regard the problems of primary production. On the contrary, this draft law shows that the present government is finally confronting itself with the democratic and progressive areas that SYRIZA has done in the years of his governance. I'm explaining. It is well known that the rural world in our country and the overall economy in the regions with a strong primary sector have been seen in the year we are going through. This year, as we all know, is characterized by extremely low prices in oil, cotton, edible olive. One would therefore expect the present government to take concrete measures to protect the rural world from the above suffering and, of course, to strengthen it. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, This draft law is - not, of course, random! - off-site and time, as it has two goals. On the one hand, the return to the way in which agricultural cooperatives are run and, on the other, the supposed openness of the private sector to entrepreneurship. So I'm starting with the second one. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that Greek agricultural production must be transformed and efforts to standardise and process the agricultural product must be accelerated. This is the only consistent response to the pressures of Greek agricultural production. In this direction the bill gives some positive examples of writing. The facilitation of entering into the development law of agricultural cooperatives and strengthening the register on the SYRIZA governments, so that the state is aware of the real active subject to the cooperative movement, move in the right direction. However, the above measures are not sufficient to address the real problems in the industry and, above all, the draft law does not strengthen the business activities of the cooperatives themselves, but enables them to be occupied by business groups and serves the specific interests of the banks themselves. It is well known to all of us that the chronic inability to find funds on the part of cooperatives has led to the mortgage of their assets, so it is really impossible today to borrow. However, the property of agricultural cooperatives is mortgaged, but they themselves are not capital companies. In this draft law, the major issue of slow cooperatives and their property is not resolved for the benefit of primary production. It's just making it easier for the banks to access their assets. Your bill, colleagues of government, does not concern the renewal of agricultural cooperatives, does not encourage the creation of new cooperatives, nor creates conditions for the transfer of inactive cooperative assets to new schemes. On the contrary, it emphasises the liquidation and liquidation of cooperative schemes. Mr Voridis' bill does not attempt to renew the cooperative movement, as the rural world hopes. It seeks to end this, to end this way of organizing production. In addition, Mr Vorides seeks all the manifestations of his political life to end the hegemony - by himself - of the left and progressive ideas in our country. And it is precisely this notion expressed in this draft law. Minister, this draft law is for bankers, not farmers. In fact, a solution to the problem is to facilitate the liquidation by banks of the property of agricultural cooperatives and the execution of forced orders to the detriment of the current cooperatives facing real economic difficulties. At the same time, the bill opens the door wide for the circumvention of cooperative principles and their riding by private interests. In particular, Article 12 allows a private person to use the shell of an agricultural cooperative in order to carry out his business, by unfortunately using the favourable rules of the law. This obviously results from the maximum possible participation in the agricultural cooperative of 35%, but also from the prediction that the 35% itself is the minimum percentage of shareholders who can make economic decisions on the future of the agricultural cooperative. The worst aspect of the bill, however, is what is envisaged for the administration of cooperatives. Article 6 deletes the basic principle of cooperative operation, i.e. the 'one member' principle. At the same time, the principle of endless, cordless terms of office of presidents is restored. In other words, the practice of family rule, of nepotism in agricultural cooperatives, is being rekindled by the SYRIZA government to restore the faith of young farmers in these institutions. Finally, with the same anti-democratic spirit, you are ending the oligostarium and seeking to strengthen the established groupings in the existing cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately today's law has nothing to do with the needs, priorities and concerns of the rural world. The current law is part of a series of legislation by the government trying to strengthen the banking sector and restore their capital adequacy through the use of guarantees and the assets of their former indebted lenders. In this sense, this draft law is a continuation of your policy on banking and debt-driven borrowers. We also have the recent example of the abolition of the first and only residence which is harmonized in this spirit. For all these reasons, then, we shall vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! I would like to say introductory terms that I agree with what Mr Mamulakis said earlier and with our rapporteurs on the agricultural bill. I will dedicate an important part of my current position on the current political topicality, starting with the issue of the coronary. The pandemic is in full progress. Compliance with safety and hygiene rules is individual and social responsibility. In order not to find ourselves in our country against great difficulties, we must obviously be able to apply all the directives and all the rules that public health scientists give. It is a matter of responsibility to the vulnerable social groups and to our older fellow citizens. The second is, unfortunately, about the crisis that the country is experiencing in the refugee - immigration. Of course, the refugee - immigration did not start in 2020, nor did the crises start in 2020. We also managed a series of social and patriotic crises in the period when we were government, and then I remind you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that we did not have a climate of national unity and national solidarity on these issues. I think that in relation to some questions you raised yesterday, Mr Voridis, Minister, concerning the position and attitude of Officer Opposition, you must have been resolved. There should be no such questions today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u15	Unless new issues have arisen in you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u16	No issue was created, no matter what. And come on, if you can and if you can withstand, discuss the real views of each place and party and not a constructed caricature of one's or another's views. It is politically misery to question directly or indirectly the patriotism of our patriotism with regard to loose and tight border guarding. The borders in Greece were always guarded. In 2015, eight hundred thousand people passed through our islands. Why did these eight hundred thousand people go from the islands and didn't go from Evros, Minister, since the border was open?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u17	It was the fence!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u18	It was the fence! Do you know how many miles the fence is? Thirteen! Do you know how far our borders with Turkey are? Over two hundred fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u19	And why did you tear him down the fence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u20	Is it a serious response from Members of the Coupling House, either the floating dam in the Aegean, or that the borders in Evros are closed with a thirteen-km fence? If things are so simple, fix the thirteen-km fence and stop talking. We've solved the problem. What are we fighting here then?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u21	We have the floating dam, don't forget it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u22	On 7 July you took over the rule of the country and took keys to Maximus, because - you know - in the political life of the country we are not all the same. We, when we lose the election, don't run away crying. We have the courage to deliver the keys to the next one, so we can get them back. When you took them and got updates, what did the security forces tell Evros? That Tsipras has left Evros unguarded? Is that what you tell the Greek people? And internationally, do you give the signal that there are two sides in Greece, one which takes care of the borders and one which does not take care of them? Should you be more careful on these sensitive issues, Minister. And anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u23	I'm making my cross.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u24	Make him your cross, make him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u25	Could you tell your family all this, Mr. Zachariadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u26	Don't you have politics? Let them come in to get...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u27	So I say here we have a serious crisis to manage. Will you agree, Minister, with the parties? Will you come to an understanding? Are you going to take initiatives or only get press releases, where is one, where's the other, where's the third? What initiatives will you take?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u28	Let us now enter the bill, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u29	They've caused me now, they're looking at me in a way...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u30	Because if we start and say how many people entered in 2015 and how many people entered today, if we make comparisons, we will never end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, you are right and you are from a periphery, a little mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u32	Except for a bill, when the president doesn't talk about the bill, he can tell what happened, let it go now. Let's move on, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u33	Get in touch with the parties, get in touch with self-government and get in touch with each other! Half the people can't tell the public speech that we have a crisis and the other half say we have a war. The signals are completely different. Otherwise, you manage a crisis, and otherwise you manage a war, and that is very serious issues. We, of course, condemn Turkey using people as a lever for pressure. And I ask: In this challenging way, how will you put a brake? Do you have a plan? Do you have a Greek plan? Do you have a European project? Are you going to ask for sanctions? On the other issue with the Turkish Pact you made a month, with our own pressure, take initiatives. Will you push the Turkish economy through Europe, Minister? You have a critical ministry. Are you going to recommend things? What about the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, it applies, does not apply, it collapses? If it collapses, do we have a successor situation plan in the direction of European solidarity and burden-sharing? And obviously, there must be a lasting campaign for internationalisation by all. And obviously, we'll put our backs on, that's self-evident, because we're not the same. Because in the critical issues you have been standing across and smuggling us into the refugee - immigration - you have made various barbecue there with pork to show your humanitarian feelings. And we will help, we will be next to this issue both in self-government and in Europe and in the world and wherever necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u34	Come on, Mr. Comrade, it's time. Furthermore, do not forget that Turkey was the first to apply this declaration. Since 2015, it has not applied it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. Okay, I know, and I officially denounce it from the Step of the House. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u36	The main provisions are not applied by Turkey itself, but let us move on a little. I'll give you two minutes more to talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u37	Okay. I want to make a specific report and continue with Mr Mamulaki. I am making a position that has these political features. I'll say something about your island, Mr. President, and then I'll leave. I have nothing more to add. The New Democracy has said - I am not saying that it is our view, so that it is not considered crazy - of the plan of burden-sharing with 1%. Do you remember, Mr. Voridis, we were on a channel and we talked about it and you said what a nice plan that was? We were together, I've got the video. Where's that? Where's this 1% plan? How will Lesvos, the island of the President-in-Office, be dismantled if I don't get some in my neighborhood or in my home and you in your neighborhood and in your home and Mr. Kelles in his neighborhood and in his home and Mr. Mamulakis and Mr. Arahovitis and Mr. Apostolos and everyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u38	We got it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u39	How's it going to happen? How can it be, at the moment, twenty-five thousand people in Moria, when we left five thousand and blocked the system as a whole? Because you block the asylum procedure, you create a new small structure in the port of Lesvos, the residents on their own have closed their way to Moria, some non-governmental organisations are hitting international journalists, and I ask you and I close with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u40	Come on, he's already loading the ferry now, he's gonna take them all. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u41	Where's the state? Where are the rules and where's the coordinate state? And I close with this: the image of the resident in Lesvos who said to pregnant, "What do you want here where you are pregnant? We didn't let you get pregnant, go back where they left you pregnant!" This is not our Greece, these are not our values. Our values are the values of hospitality - where is the tradition of the country? - love and solidarity. We must not lose our humanity, not lose our values and be able to face international challenges! Thank you very much. I didn't say much about the bill, Minister, but it's hot news.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u43	For a minute the Minister has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u44	It seems that we are still concerned about this issue outside the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u45	Now don't go any further, because the numbers aren't like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u46	Frequently. Look, Mr. Zachariadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u47	Allow me to say, because the President-in-Office cannot speak of the bill, but when there are incidental issues he can speak. Do not forget that only in 2015 from the Aegean islands passed eight hundred eighty thousand immigrants and only five hundred fourteen thousand immigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u48	You forget it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u49	Compare numbers with 2014, which were only sixty-seven thousand. But that is not what this is all about. Let us now get to our point of view and get it over with. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, our point is that I understand that in fact the President of SYRIZA has had to take a position which does not cover the political and social base of SYRIZA. Because on the big and major and specific issue, which was also pressing questions in the Chamber yesterday, you obviously expected Mr Tsipras to come up with what he would say, so you did not reply. Yes, sir. What did Mr. Tsipras finally say? Because the question now, Mr Zachariadis, is not to discuss migration in general. The general debate on immigration I will tell you that it is part of yesterday's, yesterday's, today's, because it is not over. It is part of the fact that two basic logics have actually been discussed. That's why we asked pressing. What was the one logic? One logic is that these are refugees, they have rights. Whether it is ten thousand or thirty thousand or Erdogan works for them or not, we have to accept them, manage them and live with them. And that was your logic, clearly and clearly, in the first half of 2015, that the eight hundred thousand have passed and we have been isolated from all over Europe because Europe has closed the borders. It was contemptuously rather, in fact, your logic in four and a half years. Because they're all gone. Your logic was the decongestion of the islands, so their promotion inside, inland, so never return. And in four and a half years there were a thousand, eight hundred, fifty, all willing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u51	Five and a half thousand had Moria.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u52	Listen. Now, then, there was another logic. Who was she? Oh, no! We're closing the border. We are defending the borders. We are not confined to a record, Mr Zachariadis. Because yes, border, you say, there were, but in the sense that there was a record. Not in this sense 'closing borders'. They close the border in the sense that we don't get asylum applications. That's how we close the border. And we don't record why we turn them around without recording. That's another logic. I understand that you were forced, in fact, to spectacularly alter your view of a new fucking papa. I am happy to say that you have done it, because you are joining the right position to manage the problem, but not to get us out of the way. Come to the right place. All the other things you say, the summit, the internationalisation, which has already been done, the Heads of State or Government, are going to be done. Your contribution, but you will come to this debate with a full consciousness of what you have done, namely the policy of perforated and open borders and 'Let everyone go, because they do not want to come to Greece, Greece is a transit centre, they will all cross' and what we are doing, which is that we are guarding the borders. We are protecting the borders and we have a geopolitical role, which is the role of the guard and the guardian of the borders of the European Union. That's what you did, that's what we do. They're not the same!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u54	I would also like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u55	First of all, as far as Mr Zachariadis is concerned, there is no case in Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure to be anything personal to you. As far as Mr Apostolos is concerned, as far as I can see, the Parliamentary Representatives have made many contributions on this issue since yesterday. In any case, however, for the equality of arms, you have a minute, Mr Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u56	For equality and as a parliamentary representative, I have to give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u57	Please stop this. It's all over the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u58	He's not exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u59	It's also an incidental topic because everyone can speak here. Here, Mr. Apostle, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Voridis, we've never regretted what we've done before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u61	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u62	Of course, during the period mentioned by us in charge of refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u63	The people that passed were refugees?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u64	Minister, let Mr. Apostle finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u65	The influx of refugees was something special that we treated in such a way as to tell you that the world's public opinion has our own attitude toward people who were after them, and their lives were at stake. From there on, you haven't understood this. Now things have changed, because we have a geopolitical problem now because of Turkey's behaviour. It's just another matter, another one. So, from this point of view, what we are telling you is that we should and should have all the means that the country has to use them, not like a communication management. Like yesterday's visit, it was essentially communal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u66	What's going on at your border seems to be your communication?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u67	It is handled in communication alone! When we've been insisting for so long...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u68	Does this effort made by the Greek Police, by the Greek Army and by the Port Corps seem to be communicating to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u69	I referred to yesterday's visit. That's what he was aiming for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u70	The fact that Europe's leadership came to see the Greek border was communal? I'm fine. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u71	While you know at this point that you have a tool to force the European Commission to stop statements and actually to do the agreement that we have signed, you do not. Why? Aren't you displeased by some of your people?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Katrin, it can't be done. It's over now. You've had a number of conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, Mr Vorides stands up and speaks himself for two minutes. I asked for the floor from the Chair. Shall I do the same? I have a stronger voice than Mr. Voridis. I respect the Chair. Mr. Vorides doesn't respect her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u75	Look. This is where no one's offended. Judgments can be made. As far as I can see, the parliamentary representatives have spoken on several occasions yesterday on this subject. Mr. Frangidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that such a collision picture of an important national issue that concerns Greece does not honor either Parliament, but it is certainly not acceptable either to Greece or to the Greeks. Now we need another climate, a climate of conspiracy, alliance, confession, we all go together, because days are hard. Our homeland is spending a lot of hard time. Turkey is under attack with a view to degrading its national sovereignty. Human exploitation in its majesty from the Turkish government, which uses innocent people for political purposes. It is our patriotic duty, not to fight in the Chamber, but to defend our borders, to be next to our uniform children, who are giving Evros and the Eastern Aegean for our national sovereignty. It is time for all of us, beyond micro-political and opportune benefits, to assume our responsibilities. It is time, at last, for the European Union, by deeds and not by words, to assume its great responsibility. Coming to the bill we are discussing, I would like to say that the primary production sector in our country is characterised by low productivity and difficulty for Greek agricultural products to enter foreign markets. The factors are many, such as small and fragmented farms and the unwillingness of Greek farmers to cooperate by achieving increased production and improving competitiveness. The rural economy, although it has enormous potential to contribute to the recovery of the Greek economy, has been given little importance by the state. There is no organized policy and strategy and an integrated programme for agricultural conversion at all stages from production to sale of products. The state must listen to farmers who are fighting survival every day. The agricultural cooperatives that started ambitiously years ago, but which were left to their fate and failed, could be a lever of modernization and development of the agricultural sector if they operate in a good organisation. This means that they should be given a new form, without becoming a political aim vehicle. A targeted strategy would be to provide financial incentives for participation in cooperative schemes, training programmes of the parties involved (farmers, traders of agricultural products, etc.).). It is necessary to develop a culture of cooperation, the use of new technologies, the interaction and communication of the cooperatives in the country between them, the example of successful business efforts. In particular, agricultural cooperatives, like the agricultural product, must become competitive. The bill that the government brings, instead of giving substantial solutions to problems and diseases, is purely interoperable. The current N.4384/2016 of the previous government introduced a number of provisions restricting the autonomy and independence of cooperatives, regulating issues that should be laid down in the statutes of each cooperative. While the current Minister argued that the status of cooperatives should be governed by the principle of freedom, the provisions of this draft law are probably inconsistent with what he says. On the pretext of promoting the financing of cooperatives by private individuals, the Government seems to attempt to pass its control over private investors without criteria, without any advantageous partnership. In particular, Article 6(3) of the draft law introduces a provision causing reactions, as with the 35% rate set for the participation of a private investor and with which it will participate in the total votes, the private investor will in fact be able to control decision-making by meeting its objectives. It seems that with the government's policy, instead of the cooperatives turning into development tools for the benefit of producers and the rural economy, they will lead to the alienation and disappearance of their social character. Neither the representativeness of decision-making nor the equal representation of producers is guaranteed. Also, there are many inactive cooperatives, which have real estate and infrastructure, as well as in my prefecture, the Prefecture of Kilkis. This draft law does not provide for anything to be exploited. It would be right, by setting a time-limit for the payment of contributions, such cooperatives with large assets can go ahead with their resurrect by paying the capital and the current, without the incremental gains. Nowhere is there a framework for cooperation between cooperatives with buyers, traders and processors of agricultural products anywhere in the bill. There are no tax incentives and reductions to increase the participation of farmers in cooperative schemes. The Change Movement had tabled an amendment with concrete measures to support farmers. In particular, to strengthen the cooperatives' institution, it proposed that professional farmers who deliver their products to producer groups and agricultural cooperatives whose members are members, that these deliveries be accounted for less than 35% of the taxable income. Also, for farmers under the special VAT arrangements under Article 41 of Law 2859/2000, which deliver their agricultural products to producer groups and agricultural cooperatives whose members are members of an additional 5% of the VAT in question. Finally, the primary sector in Greece is in an adverse position. Cooperation is crucial in achieving recovery. We should therefore seek new successful cooperative models and encourage the strengthening of the institution. The absence of this spirit from this bill shows the lack of interest and culture of the association from your resignation, gentlemen of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and two teachers attending the 6th Daphne Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Bogdanos is missing. Mr Anastasios Bartzokas has the floor in the place of Mr. Loading with whom he changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Before I place myself on today's bill, I would like to congratulate the Government and Mr Mitsotakis personally on the country's position and attitude towards the clear and unambiguous threat we are experiencing. It is a position and a attitude that sets limits on insurmountable irrationality and intolerance, as a new tyrannium appears. We must understand that the exploitation of humanity is inhumanity. The exploitation of human need is a crime. Do you disagree somewhere, gentlemen, on this? We have nowadays a new tyrant who commits crime, who treats unhappily people in an inhumane manner. What we do is self-evident. We guard our borders and put an end to this inhumanity. If you disagree, tell us. So in this crime, we resist and call on everyone to wake up. We just want to stop what a criminal does across the street. We're not gonna be Erdogan's partners. We will not be partners of those who exploit human misery. This is a line of patriotic and a line of reason. Our thoughts are in the Security Corps and the Armed Forces that fight to safeguard our borders. If you want, tell those people that these days are fighting this is all communal. You dare tell them? Greece therefore has a borders - these borders are European - and it will defend them in every way against every one who goes to violate them. I'm coming to today's bill. I recently visited the rural exhibition held every year in Berlin. I had the opportunity, in my parliamentary capacity, to understand what Greek comparative advantage means, what it means to the primary sector and what it means to the Greek cooperatives. Speaking with the representatives of the cooperatives of Imathia and other counties, I have drawn the following conclusions: Firstly, it is the cooperatives who determine the flows of agricultural products internationally. Power in union. Secondly, there is a huge margin for rural and livestock development in our country. Thirdly, that rural and livestock development does not arise legally, but central planning is required in order to transform our comparative advantages into levers of development. For the first and second studies on studies and analyses on analyses have been carried out to the extent that these conclusions are now considered a post, so no extension is needed. The major issue therefore focuses on the state design of primary production, which should aim only at one issue: increasing and improving the quality of national production. And this can only be done through collaborative schemes. The draft law on agricultural cooperatives, which we are discussing these days, we have been looking forward not only to the Members of Parliament who are from rural regions but also to all the Members of Parliament. The agricultural cooperatives are now provided with a legislative tool which shuts them away from excessive government intervention and modernly allows them to play a leading role, which they should have in the restructuring of the production model. I would like here to stand and highlight the individual features of the bill, anyway the general framework has been analysed by colleagues. Firstly, I think it is a good thing that the process of establishing a cooperative is being simplified. This not only speeds up procedures, but also discharges the partners from unnecessary costs. This arrangement was something that it needed. I also welcome the favourable tax regime. If we want producers to move into cooperative schemes, we must give them incentives and substantial tax relief. In the right direction, the provision for the setting-up of a National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives is also being initiated. A national interlocutor is required, which will unite the cooperative space and represent their interests indivisibly. In any case, they often refer to all of us - and to me personally - representatives of cooperatives from Imathia and other counties. On the question of investor entry at 35% in the cooperative scheme and voting capacity there have been many reactions during the drafting stage in the committee. My view is that we look at the tree and we lose the forest. What's the point? The fact is that the private investor, in any case, was foreseen to be involved in a cooperative scheme by the previous law. However, this possibility was exhausted in the forecast, because no investor would enter a collaborative scheme, bringing only the money, its know-how, but without any opportunity to participate in decision-making, as is reasonable and as was done. With the new bill, therefore, a field is formed to enter an investor in the cooperative scheme only if the strong and increased majority of the general assembly of the cooperative decides on it and we also cover investors, allowing them to participate in the decisions. This is a balanced situation and I do not really understand why there has been such a reaction. I would also like to raise the question of the simplification that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech again in the form of a proposal. A few days ago, the electronic platform was opened, by which each interested party can no longer visit any public service personally, to set up his business. This is a process that responds to a stable demand from the business world. I therefore think that the electronic start of cooperatives should be included in the process and that there should soon be a legislative provision on this issue as well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, let me make some comments on the primary sector as a whole. This bill is important because it responds in a fresh and modern way to the request for the reorganisation of agricultural cooperatives, but it is only a piece in the big puzzle called the reorganization of the primary sector. They need bold and brave reforms that the rural world expects from this government. First of all, it is necessary to speed up the change in the ELGA regulation, which constantly proves that it cannot meet the new challenges. While the insured are struggling to meet their insurance obligations, there are still cases where due to the outdated regulations of the regulation, farmers are not simply compensated in a fair manner, but are not compensated at all. For example, last year in Imathia, a small portion of kiwi fruit growers affected by last year's glacier saw their crops and their labors go lost and yet no compensation was received over time, because the arrangements of the ELGA regulation for many years have been predicting that respondents appreciate the damage when fruitfulness is present and not earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u79	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u80	I shall conclude, Mr President. As there will obviously be many such cases throughout Greece, I believe that the Ministry should positively see the possibility of changing the regulation until the debts of this year are even offset by the imminent compensation that farmers are going to receive. It is something that will give farmers breath and it is their time-consuming request. In conclusion, I would like to say that we must make decisive moves in our primary sector. Farming and livestock farming have always been the main pillar of our economy, and that is why we must take serious action on them, vision and plan. I am deeply convinced that the current Minister and the Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis want and can bring better days for the Greek farmer and farmers. Today's bill is just the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u81	I call on Mr. Psychogios from SYRIZA to then prepare Mr. Andrianos for the post of Mr. Bogdanos, according to the change made to the list. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the refugee - immigration - and ask Mr Vorides if all these requests from international organisations to dismantle the islands all these months are touching him. That is, the fact that SYRIZA has implemented a policy for vulnerable groups in the country, and so there has been a management of refugee - migrants, as well as relocations to Europe, as twenty-two thousand people have gone with the RELOCATION programme, but also family reunifications with unaccompanied minors, is not all of this any concern to you? So, these are SYRIZA's problems? Is it not a European policy, which also gave Greece a reliable foreign image? We had the European officials' visit yesterday, and I'll say good. What did Mrs. Von Der Lyen say? "Support for the country with funding", that is, a protection shield for Europe, to save the issue in Greece, so that it does not take the responsibilities Europe has and the part of refugee management, but also the causes of it. He said, however, that there must be a common immigration and refugee policy and that there must be sanctions in Turkey. I didn't hear Mr. Mitsotakis say that. Mr Sasoli said so, who has also criticised the dissuasive policies on the islands, and the Prime Minister of the country said nothing about it. He said only about the protection of borders, which is properly provided for in Article 78(3), and the Treaty of the European Union was well activated, but the same article was activated in 2015 for direct relocations of population proportionally in Europe. Why don't you turn it on for that? And, yes, to ask for solidarity from Europe, but in practice with common asylum policies, with broadening support programmes, with open structures, with integration programmes and infrastructures, which are facing a long-term issue, not just now. Here, of course, in Greece we cannot make solidarity with our municipalities. The CEDEFOP decision says that there should be a balanced distribution throughout the territory, and you forged indifferently, because most of your mayors do not accept people in their areas. Suspension of asylum claims: You are a lawyer and you support this decision, denounced by the UN High Commissioner, not provided for by any national, European and international provision...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u83	So you disagree with your President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u84	Our President was clear yesterday. He said that we're across the street. He said that in the suspension of asylum claims, we're across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u85	Who are you across the street with?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u86	That is what our President said. Don't twist what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u87	So, open borders!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u88	No, let me finish! Leave the impressions, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u89	Please. Don't do personal analysis. There is an opposite decision of the European Court of Justice when we have a weighting of goods.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u90	Listen to the judgment of the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, that is not your role!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u92	So listen to the decision of the European Court of Justice, which you are working on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u93	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u94	It is not possible, on the basis of the judgment of the Court of Justice, to justify...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u95	Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u96	Mr. President, they're interrupting...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Barkas is worried about the holidays. You've never interrupted, have you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, can we now talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u99	Please let Mr Psychoyos finish, after all, he has studied the issues. One might disagree, but let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u100	Let me finish and get where I want. The judgment of the European Court of Human Rights says - and do not take advantage of it and work on it - that the states are expressly bound by the principle of non-refoulement of people on their territory. Furthermore, it says that they cannot be justified in any case even in exceptional circumstances, such as that we are experiencing, recourse to practices outside the Geneva Convention. What you are doing is unjustified and legally, but it also exposes the country internationally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u101	Please proceed to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u102	Now let's go to the last one. So the activation and mobilisation of the designated state of the prosecutors, police and ports, particularly in the islands, but also elsewhere, for the unlawful actions and attacks that have been observed in recent times, must concern us all. "Indignant citizens", groups that operate as invasion battalions, extreme right guards must be treated as the law-free treatment, because you know, Minister, it will not only be the vulnerable or the workers of NGOs, or the photoreporters, or the self-government or the people who have another perception, and in the end we will all be as a formed state. If you like these and you support them, say it to the public. We're moving on to the bill. We have a bill, which provides that cooperatives from associations of persons become associations of capital. It violates many of the seven cooperative principles, such as the autonomy, independence and property that it says it belongs to generations and not to shareholders and many of them have worked for decades for these properties. Of course, the problems created by the bipartisanism in the operation of cooperatives are well known with this sale, the sale of the agricultural bank in Piraeus, in essence. The bill, therefore, does not serve healthy cooperatives, nor does it serve those who are in solution and liquidation. So who's it for? It is for those who have already agreed with private individuals on the exploitation of the property and the brand name built by the cooperative, with the possibility of entering with 35%, and there is, of course, the abolition of the two terms of office of the President with the risk of reintroduction of morbid phenomena of the past which prevent the renewal of the cooperative's potential. So at the moment when you leave the producers, in particular olive oil and table grape, unprotected, when you are not trying to ensure a sustainable price and you have not yet paid the compensation for the 19th reductions, without having arranged for the timely protection of olive trees from the tomato, and for all of which I have asked you a timely question, which I hope you will shortly be discussing, you will also take away the last weapon they have in order to protect their properties against competitors and the international player. So you insist on your neoliberal doctrine that all individuals will restore it, on the pretext of promoting funding, even though there are financial tools that SYRIZA has given and which can also be used for processing and selling and for the production of products, cooperatives, as you did in education, health, municipal ports and insurance for specific interests. And I would like to close up with the fact that we are not falling out of clouds with these practices. You had said this in an election, you are consistent, it is this neoliberal road that works for the few and not for the many. Of course, you have given strong samples of writing to the Ministry since the first days of your administration with the amendment you have brought to Parliament by circumventing a specific decision of the Council of State which Mr Gerapetititi had even defended as a lawyer before the court, and you have given the time required for an IGC to avoid control because they did not comply with the legal requirements of Law 4015. You know that now and now that you have brought the amendment to the effect that some APAs were already operating as an IKE, having rented the cooperative property in their own interests and that, apart from the provisions of the law, which are binding and validated by the court - I repeat by a lawyer who defended the law Mr.Gerapitris - there was a plan by the Government of SYRIZA for the workers and for the operation of the company and for the use of all the interests of local producers. Obviously, you are not concerned with the real functioning of these schemes, and of course we will continue from our role and our position to be in touch with the people of production, with the primary sector, because for us it is very important that the cooperative arrangements as we had adjusted them, but also with the production and the image of the country abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Andrianos is now called in Stepma. Then Mr. Mylonakis will speak from the Greek Solution and then Mr. Levanos Spilios will speak from the New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in which this bill is being discussed is extremely sensitive given what is happening on our eastern land and sea borders. So let me, before I mention the dilemmas of the draft law, stress my support for the inhabitants of Evros and our islands, as well as for the members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies who, as guardians at the same time as the Greek and European borders, give the Turkish provocation the appropriate response. The government, then, once again demonstrates its seriousness, responsibility and effectiveness, and this is also underlined by the particularly positive statements of support and support from the European institutions in the past few days. We are doing what we need to do and we will continue to do everything we need to defend our national interests. So the moments require national unity and I hope that the democratic political forces in the country and each one of us will be lifted to the extent of the circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today responds to the problems that not only failed to resolve, but also on many points has been extended by previous government No.4384/2016. I am sure that no one in this Chamber, especially those of us from rural areas, disputes the central importance of agricultural cooperatives for the survival of primary production in our country and the exploitation of existing and important development potential. Furthermore, no one disputes that for decades of deep-rooted structural problems and distortions have allowed cooperatives to carry out their role effectively, and these problems have been more intensified in the crisis. It is characteristic that of the four thousand five hundred two registered agricultural cooperatives over two thousand are inactive, a hundred and twelve have been in a permanent winding-up process for many years, while only eight hundred nineteen have been in operation. And this in a treaty where our farmers were confronted with the wider consequences of the crisis, the high production costs and the low producer prices, the ever more frequent disasters due to climate change, and also unfair competition from Hellenism. In the face of this very difficult reality, therefore, the previous government has passed a law which imposed new bureaucratic burdens, complex procedures and obligations on the operation of agricultural cooperatives. The aim of this bill is to allow agricultural cooperatives to achieve their goal by releasing creative powers. It is to this end that the role of the State by effectively limiting the registration procedures, the control of legal functions and the care for the development of cooperatives. At the same wavelengths, the members of the cooperatives are able to define, through their statute, the framework for the operation of the cooperative in question, so as to have access to all the activities that are consistent with its nature, as well as the possibility of participation by members - investors with the right to vote, a provision which can make a substantial contribution to solving the problem of financing the operation of the cooperatives, but also the provisions for strengthening women's cooperatives, as well as the possibility of providing microfinance in the form of credits up to EUR 25,000 in total for each member of the cooperative. All of these forecasts are therefore based on the belief that the cooperative producers need the state arrogant in their efforts and not power to impose a course and decisions, constantly distrusting them. Finally, I would like to focus on the content of the amendment to facilitate the fraudulent action for the current year. This is a problem which, unfortunately, is repeated every year, endangering the quantity and quality of olive oil production and the producers' already hard-tested incomes. It is a problem affecting both Argolida and the other oil-producing regions of the country. I've raised it several times. The amendment is therefore a good one. However, a more permanent and effective solution is needed so that the phenomenon observed in previous years is not repeated, i.e. not all the necessary tactic waves. And I want to say - because the previous colleague mentioned - that four and a half years, Mr Colleague, the problem existed and was not dealt with by you either. And last year we saw it in the olive oil production in both Crete and the other regions, which really destroyed the quality of olive oil. I am therefore sure that the relevant ministers will carefully see the issue on which the economic survival of thousands of our fellow citizens depends, but also the quality of one of the most emblematic products on the Greek land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, if I hadn't known you for years, I would not be surprised at the bill you made for agricultural cooperatives. You've always had the philosophy - I think - of a state of social, radical, liberal. You have now become more Mitsotakis than the Prime Minister. You've become a hard neoliberal. If you believe that this bill with agricultural cooperatives is a bill....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u107	You weren't watching me carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u108	No, I've been watching you for years, and I'm watching you. You have always been in favour of the worker, in favour of the farmer and in favour of the soldier, and now you have suddenly become in favour of the businessmen. You want the businessmen to take the farm cooperatives. That's what you're doing. But before I come here to talk to you in detail, I would like to tell the gentlemen of SYRIZA. I'm sorry about Mr. Zachariadis and Mr. Apostleu. How is it possible for your President, Mr Tsipras, to come out yesterday and say that the government has properly closed the borders? But no one says how these borders will be secured, Mr Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u109	He didn't say he was right to shut it down. He said they're guarding the border right. The border wasn't open.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u110	Wait a minute. Look, we've reached 'and ten'. Listen, these moments are critical. There are serious episodes in Evros right now. The Task Force - if you don't know - is currently starting and making selective positions. So we must all stand, because no one speaks of Erdogan's objective. What is Erdogan's objective? The implementation of the agreement between Turkey and Libya. That's where this thing will end up. What is Erdogan doing today? A diversion. Let you listen to the Greek Solution, not me, but our President, Mrs. Kyriakos Velopoulos. And I thank him in public, because as many times as we speak, he comes here watching and listening to us. That means he respects us. And Mr. Tsipras says yesterday about a Council of Political Heads. May I give you the letter we made twenty-two days ago just at the previous National Foreign Council? That afternoon we sent the letter to the Prime Minister with a notification to the parties' leaders. We have now reached 'and 10', Mr Apostleu. Do you understand what "and ten" means? You don't think - and I wish, because you know very well that I've eaten it all my life in the Armed Forces - what Erdogan is doing is a real war, a battle? It's Erdogan's front. If you listen to most of the people whose channels in Turkey have responses, you will see that they speak Turkish. They're the so-called mercenaries, the Turks. They are the same people who are being sent to Syria, they are the same who are fighting in Libya. They're people who are mercenaries paid by Erdogan. It's an army. It's Erdogan's front guard right now. Erdogan won't hit Evros. He knows that Evros is inaccurate. It's not falling. He'll hit somewhere else. And this other thing we all know. And Mr. Zachariadis says we get them inside. In fact - and I was told very rightly by a colleague - do you have any idea how the pine cones are being thrown out? Pineapples we'll create. Do you know what that means? At a time when we are fighting at the border for border security, we are going to have outbreaks within us that fly. I will already tell you something - and the Greek Government must see it - and you must listen to it, Minister. Mr. Constantine, the ERIC and the NGOs are standing up right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u111	Who's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u112	Listen. Don't tell me who that is! Please. That's the fun. They are trying to rise up at the rallies and protests of immigrants, which these illegal immigrants - as we have said to them and now they are all told - are not, in the end, refugees or immigrants. They're intruders. And now it seems that this is the result. Take care, then, of why they will create us an outbreak that we will not be able to catch up with. And the Greek people will sit here with the women and children on the floors and we will fight elsewhere. That doesn't really want to take it out. And I say it on account of knowledge. Mr. Barca, can I tell you something? I'm not a horror. I'm not a horror. I'm telling you. I am a man who has spent a lifetime in the plans and missions. I know what's gonna happen right now. And we've discussed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u113	Why do you refer to me? What did I do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u114	I apologize for you. But I saw you, and you're smiling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u115	I'm not smiling. I spoke to my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u116	Don't interrupt. You may not agree with what he says, but you have an obligation to listen to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u117	I would like to say this: the Greek Government goes a ferry to charge these people, who finally prove to be illegal, through Mytilini - the Minister left, it's okay - and who are in the port. Now be careful what's going on. The ones where they're going? Another plan that the government has and is coming just now. Why are they being arrested - and I ask the government and we want an answer - those who are entering from Evros and who are going back after going - says - to a camp inside? And tell you what they're up to? They're preparing the camp in Rodopolis, in Serres - yes, you know - which is inappropriate. They'll pick them up there and that way - he says - they'll be gone. How are they going to go? And why don't those who enter the sea are not arrested? It's just a simple question. Aren't they illegal? Illegal people are the only ones who come in from Evros? What are these things? We're loading the sea and the islands! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The "push back" you haven't heard? The President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, told you a lifetime. It's so simple. The port did it the day before yesterday and you're dating today and you're condemning it. For what? And this should be convicted? We condemn the people of Mytilini, because people have driven the NGOs away. They can't stand it anymore. We see them. The High Commissioner went there and kicked her out badly. He tells you, you've caused us so much trouble. These are things we have been talking about since July, the first time we entered this House. And you know what? We are now trying to knit wire at the points where we need to ball. And we could have, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months, built a large fence, a wall, a NATO-type. You know what it is, you all know it. I'm not saying it. This could have caught a hundred and twenty miles from the two hundred miles. The rest would be safe. Now you don't keep this thing. You'll see it every day. The Greek Armed Forces and the police will get tired, they will be cut off. Fatigue will eat them. Every day we do this thing, up - down, up - down! What don't we understand anymore?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u118	You only got half a minute left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u119	Yes, Mr. President, I'm sorry. I'll say two words about the bill. Because it is indeed a bill, Minister, which is neither development nor anything. The Greek Solution considers that the agri-food sector is the A and O. We said it about primary production in the first place. And you could, Mr. Undersecretary, get the program of the Greek Solution. He's got eighty-two pages. It is the primary production programme in detail. And, you know, I didn't know any of it. I have learned it from Mr Velopoulos, who deals with primary production, has learned it from us and we can say two words. It says: in the preliminary draft debate, the possibility of individuals entering was 25%. Now all of a sudden, it's 35%. Why? To control the whole cooperative. So he's the private investor. So the small farmers and the small farmers are dead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u120	Mr Lebanese Spyros has the floor from New Democracy. Then Mr. Vassilis Coke is prepared by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u123	I would like to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u124	There's no intervention. The speakers are on the move.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u125	Okay. There's been a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u126	Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that our country is facing an asymmetric threat. The refugee - immigration now has become an attempt to illegally invade thousands of people in the form of a survivor of our national territory, apparently guided by Turkey in order to intimidate and blackmail Greece and Europe. It is clear that this is an international issue, an issue of protecting our borders and safeguarding our sovereign rights, an issue of security throughout Europe. The Greek Prime Minister and the Government, while respecting European and international law, took immediate action. We have safeguarded our borders, we have practically won the solidarity of the European institutions and partners, who have, of course, committed themselves to supporting Greece in the protection of the borders, which are the European borders in their own declaration. We have created a sense of harmony, unity and optimism in the whole of the Greek people. The country with a plan and national self-confidence is facing the crisis and is now leading Europe to change our common immigration policy. The Civic Opposition with another cybia - to the right side of history you will again - and after seeing that it is alienated from almost all of the Greek people, it has abandoned the extreme rhetoric and has embedded in the national logic and strategy. Fortunately! The SYRIZA executives have been smiling to justify this new ass. They misguided the New Democracy's national and patriotic position with the unrealistic delusions of an irresponsible Left. Dear Mr Zachariadis, who knows how much I appreciate you, it is not a question of Mr Vorides, the Minister, as you said before, what he said about national policy, about the seriousness of border guarding. They are the views of your youth that were characterized as utopia by your own Chief, it is the position of your other parliamentary representative, Mr.Janakopoulou, that Mitsotakis is the new Orban of Europe and so on. Obviously, then, it was not a question of the Minister of Government. It was a question of the Greek people as a whole of the irresponsibility and non-responsibility of Mr. Tsipras, who forced him last night to make a new three hundred-sixty-degree turn - as he said - and to set the new line of SYRIZA, to join the national position that has always been the position of the New Democracy. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen! With regard to this bill, but also to our agricultural policy as a whole, we are very critical of the colleagues from the Anti-Population Officers. Their criticism is mainly focused on Article 6. However, let us be honest, since former SYRIZA ministers are here: The last law of 2016, Mr.4384, could not improve, ladies and gentlemen, the bad texts. On the contrary, it maintained the impasse in the existing cooperative structures, strengthened the multi-accounting of agricultural cooperatives and failed to support the large mass of small and medium-sized enterprises, as it did not provide for tax and investment incentives. It did not solve the time-consuming problems of the deported cooperative movement in our country. On the contrary, with the New Democracy bill today, we are celebrating and modernising the cooperative landscape. We remove distortions and correct the bad texts of the past. We speed up and simplify the procedures for establishing new cooperatives. We propose and vote for a substantial change that concerns not only changing the legal framework, but also a comprehensive change of attitude. Among other things, we allow agricultural cooperatives to participate - investors with the right to vote to 35% of all members' votes. With the changes we are bringing, we are actually opening the agricultural cooperatives to healthy entrepreneurship. This makes it possible and more accessible to use advanced technologies by more farmers, easier to verticalise agricultural production, strengthen their negotiating position and place in international competition. And right here lies our ideological difference with SYRIZA. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are back, hug yesterday. You are standing firm and time-consuming in the face of entrepreneurship, evolution and modernisation. You despise them as concepts and cause you allergy. On the contrary, we in the New Democracy are ahead, and we are in favour of the free economy over time. And here, from what we have seen just before, you are identified in your criticism of allegedly identifying the New Democracy with neoliberalism with the Greek Solution. You have exactly the same arguments, you have Mr Velopoulos and his Members. You are still confused with neoliberalism among the chips that you have learned in universities or canals the various things that exist also in the essence of modernism and the progress of our society that is the front of our ideology and practice in the governance of the place. So we believe in entrepreneurship and try with all our forces to promote it in the Greek economy and especially in the rural world. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that legislation alone cannot guarantee success. Some of the most successful cooperatives, such as Denmark and Ireland, operate without special or special cooperative legislation. So we need to strengthen the business culture of society, new social models and capital that, of course, require long-term processes and social development. But they presuppose, above all, a change of attitude, and that is the innovative that brings this bill. And it is this change that can change the cooperative landscape - we wish it, we fight it - and upgrade our rural economy as a whole. For example, in my particular home country, Ioannina, an especially rural area with important historical agricultural cooperatives, is now being given the opportunities and tools to develop further initiatives for extroversion. We can now promote and show up in this way basic local products such as olive oil and edible olives, dairy, citrus, but also PDO products, such as Mesologo egg and Amphichia gravira. So the agricultural sector will acquire - this is the effort of the Ministry and all of us - the place he deserves and is the responsibility of the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Vassilis Kokalis from SYRIZA is called in Stepma and immediately after the speech was made by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development Mr. Skrekas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of a government policy, as it is in this bill, leads it to exploiting and trying to exploit unpleasant events, such as those that are happening at the border, because it really has nothing to do with citizens' work. To understand, what exactly do you want to say about the refugee? So people can understand. In May 2019, the Minister of Civil Protection announced the first police department in Evros. It was also supported by staff, the Department of Border Guard, which, six days after the elections, Mr. Chrysochoidis took it to Athens. What exactly do you want to say? The self-evident thing? All your speeches are popy paste. That's right. First-class executives say 'We protect the borders'. Is there anyone who disagrees? Excuse me, are we playing the theater of irrationality here? We are oppositioning the shortcomings, the mistakes of the government in the refugee sector and you are telling us populists. We say, "We'll put our backs on", you tell us we're doing a shithead. Hey, decide! Resurrect and rule! I now come to this bill. There have been many things, nice things and appealing things. And I heard yesterday and today: it is a group of young farmers - Mr Bukouros I think - who have an innovative idea, but have no money. Why not work with a private person?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u130	After you booked the banks, how do they have money?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u131	Sounds really attractive. Fact. You agree. Why did anyone say they can't cooperate? Mr. Vorides is missing. To make an IKE, which doesn't cost it. To make an unsub. Has anyone said that they can't cooperate, young farmers or farmers with a private person? Make a company.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u132	As part of the cooperative? With the cooperative tax?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u133	Don't interrupt my colleague. Let him finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u134	He mentioned himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u135	It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u136	I'll come to the cooperatives as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u137	What does IKE have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Kelles, please. Let's get this over with. There are many speakers. Do you want the sitting to take place late and the vote to take place at 12 noon?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u139	This one's on the right wing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u140	I see you, Mr. Kelles. Welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u141	Always close to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u142	Minister - I told the committee too - it was better to say that you do not believe in the cooperative institution - it was better! - rather than bringing this bill to a vote, the title of which should be 'agricultural company shapes and other provisions'. Mr Minister, you said yesterday that the amendment we tabled is unnecessary. For the Greek people to know, the amendment refers to the possibility for clearers to lease cooperative assets, which have been bankrupt, to lease priority to healthy cooperatives, to the neighbouring cooperatives, who are able to cope with them. You mentioned that this amendment is unnecessary. Once unnecessary, why are these cooperatives not currently exploited? You'll tell me it's in the clearer's discretion. I will reply to you that we are legislating to clear cooperatives, not commercial companies. The answer you gave yesterday, Minister, reminds me that you refer to trade clearers who have sole purpose and objective of profitability. The liquidation of the cooperative must also achieve the social objective. I think the answer to the fact that it is unnecessary is not enough. You can even think about it now, that we must give healthy cooperatives incentives to exist, incentives which, unfortunately, we have not seen. Why do you know something, Minister? Most cooperatives want incentives, whether they are tax or incentives through the Rural Development Programme, and not private investors. Let's say we're wrong, that we're the bad guys we don't want private investors. Why has all the institutions, the majority of the institutions, been successful in this institution? “PINDOS” cooperative, a X-ray cooperative, all cooperatives are against this institution. Ladies and gentlemen, over the eight months I could list many problems that the region and the rural community have, and are very concerned about, the rural world. The biggest mistake you have made as a government in the agricultural sector, and you have not understood it - or rather you do not understand it - is this possibility, Minister, for photovoltaics to be everywhere. Who's going to produce? Farmers will be forced to give up their crops. And here's the oxymobile. Once irrigated fields, productive fields, are allowed to put photovoltaics in place, and once production costs are not reduced, there are no healthy cooperatives, healthy cooperatives, do not expect farmers to insist on their crops. And you'll see it this year in the UFO. And what's the oxymomile? That they want some to divert Acheloos, but to be irrigated what? The photovoltaic?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u143	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u144	It's a big deal, it's a very important thing, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u145	So, shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u146	You've already done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u147	Shouldn't we divert Acheloos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u148	Listen, for Acheloos you put yourself right in Larissa. You said we should respect the Council of State. What's the matter? That during the eight months as Minister you did not express your intention at key strategic issues in the primary sector. And I ask you: with the possibility of photovoltaics being everywhere, in both irrigated and productive fields, is there or is there no risk of production being reduced? Who's going to produce? Yes or no? Should we see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Colleague, you've exceeded the time by two minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u150	In view of all this, we are voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-three students and students and two educational escorts from the Montesoian Schools. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute on staff, because my name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u153	You've spoken less than everyone, so I'll give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u154	Is that right, Minister? We were beating before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, first of all I am explaining. I'm not used to speaking personally. I'm not used to personal addresses. I always speak politically as a parliamentary representative. Secondly, I would not have asked for the floor if the company was not in the position of a colleague who has financed the Deputy State Secretary for Rural Development, and if there was no bill dealing with the cooperatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u156	Tell what is the alteration of content in accordance with Article 68.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u157	That is exactly what I shall refer to, Mr President. Mr Kokkalis said that when there are ten producers and they have an innovative idea, they are facilitated by the bill and asked the honourable Member why they are not doing an IKE or any other corporate form. But what does the IKE or any other company have to do with the cooperative? An IKI can buy and sell products. A co-operative is composed of members producing a product, negotiating the prices of the product as a whole and trying to give goodwill to their products. Secondly, Mr. Colleague, Mr. former State Secretary for Rural Development is the same tax regime that governs the partners - members from the shareholders of a company? These are two very important differences. Are we going to understand the core of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u158	Your location is perceived.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u159	As for the photovoltaics you said, you know that the ceiling...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u160	That's another matter. It wasn't about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u161	...is one percent of the farmed land. Why are you distorting reality? Is the agricultural problem of Greece today, at 1% of rural land? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, since it has been mentioned, I shall speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u163	Mr Kokkalis, in the first part he considered - there is this provision - that the contents were altered. He gave an explanation. Second, I didn't let him go on. [[Noise in the Chamber]] But I will give you the floor to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, there is no alteration. You said so. You asked. No change has taken place in what has been said by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u165	The second part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u166	The interpretation may be different. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You see I'm not interrupting anyone. Learn to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u167	The explanations were given and it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u168	From that point on, people will judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. I very much urge the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Screka, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me, too, begin my position today by referring to the major moments that these people are currently facing the refugee and migration flows from the Greek soldiers, from police units and national, moral and emotional enthusiasm to the struggle that these people are giving us, a symphony that has taken over the entire Greek people. May I also point out in plenary the statement made yesterday by a Greek mother from Evros to a dinner news channel where she reassured the mothers of all Greece. So he told the mothers of all of Greece not to be afraid why their children, who are currently serving at the Greek border and protecting the Greek border, guard these mothers, the mothers who are today in the remote areas of the country and help in every way accumulate. The local community also helps the Greeks, who protect our national rights, our sovereign rights and above all, our national borders. [[At the presidential seat, F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LABROYLIS]] Going into this, which is of course a very important sector and sector of Greek society and the economy, which is the primary sector, let me put some things in their place, because a lot has been heard in this Chamber. It has been heard, for example, that in Greece today we are not producing many agricultural products, that the primary sector and agricultural production are not very important for the national economy or for the Greek society and such other things. Some figures have been mentioned, for example, in the Netherlands or in other Western European countries, production per acre is ten or twenty-fold than in Greece. So let me put some things in order and say that today in Greece we produce about EUR 1,100 per hectare of cultivated land when in the Netherlands they produce neither 10,000 nor 20,000. In the Netherlands, they produce about EUR 1,700 per hectare of agricultural produce, which means that we naturally have a lot to do to get them, but we are not in 1/10 or 1/20 as it has been heard. Of course, if we take away the aid, which is partly and partly income, namely subsidies per hectare, Greece has an average subsidy per hectare of EUR 550 when in the Netherlands it has EUR 400 to EUR 450. Then you understand that the difference increases slightly between actual income generated. In Greece we have a real income of about EUR 500 to 600 per hectare, when in the Netherlands this is twice as much. So we have a lot to do. However, this does not mean that nothing is going on in Greece. Greece is the seventh country in the production of agricultural products in Europe. In Greece, the primary sector participates around 4% in the national economy as a whole, to a level of more than double what is happening in the other countries. In Greece, the active crop population is around 11%, when in other Western European countries this is less than 3%. We therefore understand that, in terms of economic, social cohesion, the involvement of the primary sector and its contribution to the Greek society are very important. This even more increases the priority that we need to put for this part. Let us say that the Greek Government, the Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development has set as the main priority the support of the Greek countryside, support for agricultural income, the attraction of young farmers to crops. And, of course, all of this is now linked to the protection of the environment, but also to tackling the challenges and the effects of climate change. Let us say that in all the years of the crisis, in the ten years of the crisis, the agricultural sector has managed much better than other economic sectors. In other words, while we had an industrial sector, we even had the tourism sector in the first few years - of course it went better - to fall short of Greece's previous good times, over the years of the crisis, primary production in the country stood and even increased the value of products produced. A little, but she increased her. So this shows that something has happened over the past decades. However, this thing is beginning to grow and from now on we need to develop a new strategy that faces the main problems of agricultural production today, which will set new foundations. So from now on, through the new path that we will be building, Greek farmers will be able to face up to the problems of their everyday lives, be able to be more competitive, have an income that will help them have a decent life and live their families with dignity, but it will help them even more to stay in their fields and have money to be able to reinvest on their jobs. Because, of course, the ongoing investment is a prerequisite for them to be viable and competitive in the future. So how will Greek farmers become more sustainable or more competitive? That is the objective, the target we have set at the Ministry of Rural Development. There are two axes: the first part is production costs. We should therefore see what we can do as a state - because we have specific ways to implement - to reduce the cost of agricultural production. One is energy costs. The energy cost in Greece is actually twice as high as in the primary sector than in the rest of Europe, twice as high as in Italy. According to the European Statistical Office, the cost of energy in Italy is about 12%, while in Greece it is 23% of the product produced. So we have twice the energy cost. What did we do about it? We did something so that we could permanently reduce the cost of electricity on a permanent basis. What did we do? After consulting the Minister for Rural Development, Maki Voridis, with the Minister for Energy, Kostis Hatzidakis, for the first time in Greece, for the first time in Europe and perhaps in the world, we have the possibility that the producer may build a rural photovoltaic where he will produce four times the energy he consumes. If, for example, a farmer has a power account - I will go to a very realistic example - of the value of EUR 3 000 per year, he can build a photovoltaic farmer who will produce an energy of EUR 12 000. The 3,000 euros will hold them for himself. The EUR 9 000 will be able to sell them to the system and have an income. With this revenue, with this EUR 9,000, it will be able to repay the total investment it needs to build this photovoltaic. So, since the first year of construction of the photovoltaic it will have 3,000 euros of electricity, which it will no longer have, it will be zeroed as soon as its park produces it, but in addition the entire loan will pay it back the 9,000 euros it will have as income. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'm gonna need a few more minutes, Mr. President. This way, what do we achieve? We succeed for the first eight years, until the loan is repaid, and it has free electricity from there and it has an extra income of 9,000 euros in the 3,000 euros it consumes. Very important for the small and medium-sized farmers. Why am I talking about the small and medium-sized farmer? Because the great farmer could build a photovoltaic as an independent producer and produce electricity and sell it and have revenue. He was able to build since 2014. The former Government of New Democracy had legislated to build a photovoltaic park, but this could not be done by the small- and medium-sized farmer who is now in debt, has mortgaged all the property, and today does not have access to bank lending. And in order to complete this, we also, in cooperation with the European Investment Bank, three weeks ago, if I remember correctly, signed the Piraeus Bank and the National Bank, gave the opportunity for 200 million loans directly from the European Investment Bank, which will be added to two hundred million loans from the Greek banks, which, together with the same participation, will lever 560 million euros, long-term loans on favourable terms and even on a period of grace that can reach five years. Here comes the small farmer, he builds his photovoltaic park, buys his machine, makes a restructuring in his crop, for the first three years until this investment yields no loan and starts and pays the first instalment of the loan in the fourth and fifth year. We are doing this, which the previous government has not done, which is innovative and which can really help the Greek farmer on a daily basis, confronting the real problems he has, which are the problems of funding, among other things. So what Mr Kokkalis said, and I wonder, finally, that he should go tell the farmers, there in Larissa where he is elected, is that he does not want the small farmer to be able to put this little photovoltaic of ten, twenty KW in his field. He'll have to go buy another land, find another field, so he can go do this facility and not put it next door to the pond that waters his field. That is what SYRIZA has to say to farmers who, for four and a half years, do not need to say what he did and what a mockery these people have eaten. The cost of contributions has increased, VAT on supplies has increased, VAT has increased in the hay, the income tax has increased, everything has increased in the agricultural sector and, of course, the heating oil, which we must of course - as you quite rightly say, on a permanent basis - should be able to gradually reintroduce this aid, even small - as far as agricultural oil is concerned. I repeat that what we have done with the agricultural photovoltaics to those who can do it, because not everyone is using electricity to water, but too many, it is ten times and twenty-fold the subsidisation and reinforcement of the agricultural oil that existed in the New Republic until 2014-2015. So that is what we have done in terms of production costs and then even more. We have to see what we're going to do with the other axis, because one is to be more competitive and to produce cheaper, the other is to sell more expensive. To sell more expensive, you need to sell better products. Greece produces better products, produces more quality products. What we need to do. Firstly, to identify and see that Greek products are indeed better. We therefore need to link production to research. It is necessary for scientific research to come and say that the yolk Kozani actually has these characteristics, the mastic of Chios has the other, the peaches, fruit and vegetables, the olive of Greece has these characteristics. So since we have seen and seen what quality characteristics are, these characteristics should then accompany agricultural products throughout the supply chain. So, we're talking about identification, about the possibility of traceability, and from there on, reaching the market shelf, with the particular quality characteristics that our Greek products have. When we achieve this, then the Greek farmer can get the added value he deserves, and that is what we are planning to do on the occasion of the new common agricultural policy that we are debating this year with the European Commission and the other countries. Greece is at a crossroads, now is the opportunity to see what has gone wrong in the past few years, to correct what has not gone well and to plan new measures that can give Greek farmers a new hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u171	Come short, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u172	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Both are being treated in another way, and I am certainly not talking about precise agriculture, which means using fewer inputs and producing more or more quality products, that is something within the strategy that we are going to pursue. This can be done in another way, so you can be more competitive. How? When you acquire the necessary scale, the economies of scale, the so-called concentration. When a person buys a fertilizer bag or a pesticide box, buys a pallet or a truck. How will he do that? But when they work together. That is why the gathering is needed, which is why cooperatives need to be co-operatives, so that they can buy massively. By buying massively, by paying better, they can lower up to 30% -40% the cost of supplies. Of course, one cannot alone produce palettes, some pounds or a few tons of a product, to be able to place this product on the markets abroad or communicate its characteristics. Why? Because it's not enough. He's a man who's a biopatient. What's got to be done? There must be a cooperative that gathers the products. To have a large economy of scale and through that it has the possibility of financing and to communicate products and standardize them and to be able to find foreign markets that will cover them. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the cooperatives today. And we know that a lot has been done with the cooperatives, we know that Greek farmers are afraid and afraid, when they hear the word cooperative, because they have lost a lot of money, because many farmers have been destroyed, but that does not mean that the pathogens of previous years must prevent them from doing something that is right. That is why we bring this bill which sets out a clear framework where the cooperative farmer in there will feel security within a legislative framework, and what else will he do? At a time when the cooperative needs some financial liquidity, it will be able to resort to a private investor, an investor, who will come and help improve the indicators of economic stability and the ability of the cooperative. And not just for economic reasons. It's not just because someone's coming to make money. And that's why we call 1/3 at least, that's 35%. Why are we saying 35% to participate and say no 25%? Of course, why do we say that it has a say of up to 35% in the decisions of the general assembly? Why would who come to put his money when he finally has no reason to make decisions? Secondly, the one who comes, has another possibility to add skills. Put on the table, not only money, but also knowledge. And get to know each other, put in distribution networks. To put on purchases that may have been opened. Put know-how in order to improve the co-operative's work. Not perhaps the production, which can also be produced, but even more so the sale, marketing of products. It's not just money, then, it's the rest that can often be more important than money. That's what we come and do. Can I tell you something? The Minister said so. It's not mandatory. If he wants to. We are not coming to save cooperatives. These cooperatives will be saved for themselves. Those who don't want to be saved, no matter what we do, they don't save themselves. That is why we have the overwhelming majority, unfortunately, to be destroyed. There are, however, some who deserve help. They will be the good examples, they will set the good example, they will mobilise the others, they will have as pilots, as procurers to follow the rest of the agricultural sector. To stop our fields from staying, because Mr. Kokkalis was afraid of 1%, which is the highest plaque we give as the possibility of using a farmer cultivating land to make a photovoltaic park, when more than 1% every year is abandoned. Over 1% of the agricultural land, according to data, is being abandoned. We give these possibilities to stop the Greek rural land being abandoned and continue to contribute to the Greek economy, as I have said, both to tourism and to rural tourism. We have gastronomy, we have gastronomic wealth. It is 4% for the agricultural sector and 20% for the tourism sector. Together, it's 25%. The agricultural sector is not alone. It produces food products that support tourism. So we need to see a market, a 25% sector contributing to national GDP rather than 4%, which can naturally be done much more. That's what I'm completing today's position. We naturally support this draft law, which, in our view, gives us a hope and another tool for these cooperatives that have still to go ahead with optimism and, of course, become more sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u173	Mr Philipos Loading from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u174	Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, we are all strugglingly following developments in our national issues and the degraded situation that has arisen at the border with Turkey, particularly in the Castagnes of Evros, where refugees and immigrants once again try to cross the border and enter Greek territories. Greece, however, is a coordinate state and proves it. For the first time, a Greek Prime Minister, together with the leadership of the European Union, is on the Evros border. Kyriakos Mitsotakis managed at a very critical time to cost the initial awkward Europe behind Greek interests. So the Greek Government has internationalised the problem both in the European Union and NATO, while at operational level it prevented the illegal entry into the country of all those who are now systematically working the neighbour to play its geopolitical games, trying to blackmail Europe. If that were the official policy of the country since 2015, it would not appear so imperative, ladies and gentlemen, and the problem is now acute. So the Greek Government, the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, does what is needed to safeguard the land and sea borders of the European Union. However, the game of responsibility must not go beyond national responsibility. More simply, it does not fit in with cheap micro-group opposition at this time, nor does it continue with the same unreasonable policy of open borders and, of course, falsifying, - I would say - of perception, where they are practices that have brought the problem to light. There is no doubt, therefore, that the conflicts do not help to resolve the problem. On the contrary, this is our homeland. These difficult hours are imposed by all of us sympathy and self-consciousness, for our Greece alone. I am sure that we all recognise that moments are very critical and will respond with responsibility. Now to the issues we are dealing with today's sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's development pillar is undoubtedly the agricultural and livestock sector, as well as the processing of products. Our country also has an important potential in the primary sector. We produce quality products in several fields and with unique varieties and these products have considerable potential. But are the advantages of the Greek primary sector as they could be exploited? It is true that all their potential has not been developed to the extent of its full potential. We are still lacking in various strategies to promote products and we have not adopted them to the extent that we could have the technologies available to improve and increase production. Of course there are exceptions, such as in the case of the Association of Cooperatives of Thareal Products, which represents all the growers of Santorini, respecting the primary tradition of the island, defending the primary sector, the Santorini vineyard and its sustainable development. However, the more general finding is a finding of unexploited opportunities. So there was partisanism, statism, institutional ambiguity, I would say personal interests, a deficit of cooperative consciousness, inadequate education and training, and these are the main causes of the collapse of cooperatives. In response, therefore, to the fragmented agricultural sector, the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as well as the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, introduce the reconstruction of cooperatives and the shift to competitive collective actions and new patterns. There has been a lot of discussion at times about the need to change the institutional framework, about the introduction of a new law on cooperatives that could also deal with these pathogens. Few, however, seemed to have studied and could actually see how a cooperative could function and why the cooperatives did not work in their form until now. So this bill shows that the Ministry's leadership is well aware of what needs to be done to ensure that agricultural cooperative action in all its forms - cooperatives and associations - is a factor in the primary sector of development rather than a cause for delay. This bill creates conditions for the reorganisation of our country's multi-faceted agricultural cooperatives, with the ultimate natural aim of transforming them into healthy competing enterprises that can stand up to important demands in the free market. It introduces the foundations for a modern management model based on cooperative principles and members' active participation. Of course, the participation of individuals is important. A private investor of up to 35% is planned at the level of financial participation. In any case, the possibility of engaging private investors creates the conditions for resolving the permanent problem of financing the operation of the cooperatives. By raising funds, cooperatives may invest first for processing units or, secondly, for promotion and sales costs on international markets. Thus, the bill sets the relevant conditions for a modern administration with private economic criteria. Furthermore, it introduces simplification of procedures to alleviate all bureaucracy and hugging with the state that often drowned the institution in the past. With the present bill, then, the role of the State and private initiative is also balanced, precisely in order for a cooperative to function on a sustainable basis as a competitive business. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u175	How much tolerance, Mr. Loading?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u176	Can I have a minute, two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u177	Not more than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u178	Sure. So it is important that cooperatives should be able to provide financial support for the members of cooperatives themselves. Cooperatives may, in specific justified cases, provide facilities to their members. It is important that the law sets out the framework for the organisation and operation of cooperatives, ensuring the specific cases. On this point I would personally like to thank the Minister for Rural Development for listening to and taking up my concerns and demonstrating the appropriate national and social sensitivity and thus accepting the proposal I made to regulate the possibility of a minimum amount of capital, less than EUR 10,000, in the specific cases of fewer cooperatives, which will exceptionally be approved on small islands of less than three thousand inhabitants. Furthermore, I would also like to welcome the regulation of Article 4 introducing the possibility of approving cooperatives with fewer than ten members on islands of less than three thousand inhabitants. A regulation which, like this one, takes into account the specificities of islands. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill introduces the framework necessary to stop those distortions that kept our cooperative schemes established outside the market for decades. A reform of the institutions of agricultural cooperative action is being introduced, which lays the foundations for revitalization and the primary sector and for substantial rural development. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u179	We will give the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to start wishing the Prime Minister many years. Today is a birthday! Sure! Years of government I don't see much about what you're doing! Years of the human being, but years of government, I don't see it. Of course, a leader is usually photographed by what they say and the people around him. I was surprised to hear the Minister of the New Democracy... I don't know where you find the evidence, Mr. Screka. How much does Greece produce per acre? A thousand hundred?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u181	Per hectare. You're not listening well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u182	Ah, per hectare! Because here in Greece I live. Another acre, another hectare. First. Second, listen a little, you'll hear now, you'll learn to listen. The Netherlands produces 1,700 euros per acre, Israel 1,190 euros and Greece 190 euros. You come here and say things that don't apply. Listen: And you come here as Minister and say things that don't apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u183	Who? Tell them, let's see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u184	You talk to people who at least cut their minds or engage in the primary field. Don't say that! Per acre! Xenophobic term! Where would my father know in the village in the ha, that the minister meant the hectare? Well, it's not like that. Okay, you may have kittens from here, but across the street is the leopards. You might have kittens from here, that's where you got leopards, I told you. It's not like that! Take the Minutes to see what the Minister can do so that he can be well informed, please. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the rest and seriously. May 2019, Mr Skreka, my dear friend, because I appreciate you for years. Mitsotakis: 'Together announcements about agricultural oil'. Now listen. [[Noise in the Chamber]] But political confrontation, ladies and gentlemen, political dissatisfaction and personal acquaintance and relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u185	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u186	Let me remind you that Adonis Georgiadis has been my friend since my nineteen years, since the twenty. However, vertical political controversy with him does not agree with anything. It's over and over! Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u187	On your benches, he was sitting!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u188	And you used to sit down and your people from there are all there!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u189	Please, Mr. Catherine, what kind of behavior is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u190	Everybody's talking. Are you messing with me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u191	And Chochatzopoulou in your seat was sitting, colleague, at PASOK. Have you forgotten now? Don't talk, you have no right to talk to PASOK at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Velopoulou, please don't respond. Keep talking and don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u193	No, you're a young man, the rest of you! "We will fully reform the ELGA," Prime Minister's statements in 2019, "we will demand firm resources from the new Common Agricultural Policy", Prime Minister's statements in 2019. Look, I'll tell you again, Mr. Voridis, we know each other and we're friends, and that's all right? I've known him for several years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u194	I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u195	Farm bill, listen a little: You're legal, it's seen by your bill, legal fast track bill. No relationship to the primary sector and you make it fast track. It's not your fault because of the CAP. You're in a hurry to finish it and you're doing it glue and I'm talking to you with a lot of sympathy. Is the farmers' financial situation improved by this bill? Oh, no! Here you have a big mistake. I never say that the investor, the private investor, is in favour of the private initiative, but here you go to do 'collapsing', you go to work for the slave farmers - to go back to the 19th century or 18th century - to work for the farmers to name only the private one. These are incredible things, honestly! Because your bill works at the expense of farmers, the way you made it. You do not share the farmer, the producer, as they did in the Netherlands, Mr Minister, as they did in Israel. Yes, there are private corporations, but the ones making the farm cooperatives as an unsub. - anonymous companies - they are farmers. This is where you put 35% - so that I do not use any expression of the train, what it means to a company, because we have companies, by companies, in any case - which is the head, the mind, the hands of the whole mechanism. So you put the private person to be the godfather - as the godfather of the system - and slaves underneath working. I don't know how you thought about that. In Article 9 you have a different share price for individuals against cooperatives. That's what it's called "collosification," you know. You who are to blame the Left and Columbia of the JRC, Bulgaria, the Soviet Union, the Communist Party, are going to do "collapsing" with this bill, to work under and above the party, soviet, now the private Soviet press can control it all and trade it up. Article 26: Forming a reserve of fictitious or profit, i.e. when making profits, reserves will be made. What kind of private initiative is this? Instead of sharing the profits, the farmers sharing them, the farmers taking them in their pockets, making profit, reserves. What can the reserves do with them? If you give me reserves for reinvestment, I understand. Ash, reserves. The example of the Netherlands and Israel: Two thousand agricultural cooperatives in Israel with twenty-five central organizations, and that is the cooperative on the national board. If you cannot - and it makes sense, you are legal - take, copy the model of Israel and the Netherlands and bring it together! If they're successful models! People made it, worked, created, progressed. Why don't you do the same thing and do Houdini here, or do the magician, I know, with the stick? Whatever. There are 50% of agricultural products in Israel moving these agricultural cooperatives. I should like to give you an example of an agricultural cooperative which has become a multinational company: 'NOW'. We all know NUNU, we all grew up here, who grew up, because I was drinking milk from the cow, my grandfather had stables. So I say 'NEW' is the 'FRIESLAND COMPANY', a dairy cooperative in the Netherlands. It was expanded worldwide not only in agricultural products, but also in other products, soft drinks, even in detergents. However, capital and shares are returned either to the shareholders or to the farmers they produce. That's where you say reserves. What were you supposed to do? My basic condition, Mr Vorides, is that you start again - the first thing the state has to do in agreement with all the parties is reafforestation, reafforestation, to find larger areas, so that the ten acres we cultivate, Mr Skreka, in Larissa, in Pella - or in Serres - which Mr Vorides has something to do with the Serres Law - or the fifteen acres to become a hundred, two hundred acres, a thousand acres, as the serious countries do everywhere. We have not even resurrected fifty, seventy years here, and neither has SYRIZA, the PASOK that has ruled for so many years, New Democracy. And today you come, after you ruled for twenty years, and you say "we brought a bill that will go ahead of the primary sector" and we believed you. If you're the same! What have you changed to? I don't understand. What changed from your logic? Seems! I've been yelling here since July for a seed bank. We are the only country - I repeat - that has no seed bank. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all from rural families, I know that, not everyone except for exceptions, in any case. But we don't have a seed bank. A country that wants to have a primary sector... Am I wrong, Mr. Apostle, where we don't have a seed bank? Do we have a seed bank? We don't have one! So what should a government do, whatever government, not SYRIZA, all together? To create - intergroups, if you want - a group of people of experts and start a seed bank, not to wait for the olive tree that will soon plant our imported hybrid, and to root out the Greek olives, our centuries old, eternal olives. I say a few examples that may - if you like - be the symptoms. The problem is another, our logic. We have a reasonable intimate in here, I honestly say that and I don't understand it. Science and food technology schools. Create new age scientists, as you say! I disagree with the "new age" as a term. So make scientist farmers! I went to the Netherlands myself and watched, Mr Voridis - listen to me a little - I went to the greenhouses of a hundred and twenty acres. Inside I met a friend of mine, I met him there, Professor of Agronomics in Amsterdam. The professor was in the greenhouse with the students in the agronomics, along with the farmers, Mr. Vorides. In Greece the professor takes the seat, embracing the university with his hands on the offices, teaching the geoponets. Farmers open office in the village, sell fertilizers. We must understand that it is a vertical production line in the primary sector. It is no different, but we are starting from the university to do - I repeat - the fifth and sixth generations of agricultural production. There's no other way, we don't train the executives. We do not connect the universities with the agricultural schools and production. The countryside - I repeat - must be in the field. As I come from a rural family, I remember my father - the poor man was, when he returned from Germany from the coal mines - he took fifteen acres of peaches. How would that poor guy know where he got in trouble? Go to the other guy and he said, "Take this fertilizer and drop it, take this fertilizer and sprinkle, take this fertilizer and throw it in the field!" Normally, the peasant should be in the field inside. In there, right next to the farmer! Find a frame. I won't tell the rest. I'm just going to tell you one thing: I've been honestly waiting for Mr. Voridis to hear the obvious. So I heard Mr Skreka say that Greece produces very nice products and so on. We agree. Why don't you exonerate the four-star, five-star, six-star hotels in the country? Less taxation with an obligation: getting Greek agricultural products in there. Only Greek. It can be done. Our own experts were doing the economic study - with Mr. Villardos and the other five economists - told me that we would have a greater profit, because your profit is not today. The Greek product that is better quality will be taken by the German, the Frenchman at his hotel. Lurpak, we learned and grew up with Lurpak, the imported product. Our Greek butter, our butter butter is better. He'll take it to Germany, he'll ask. So there's going to be an export of the product. It's some things you don't have to have divination skills to understand. But, to understand it, we're legislating through. You're handling it. This is the problem in the Greek political scene. And I'll tell you something and connect it to logic. In the CFP, under Law 2127, you are following the European line. You're Euroleagues, I understand that. Mania, what Europe says to implement it! Whatever he says, Mr. Voridis. CFP reduction of about 50 billion. You are equating the level of subsidies pan-Europeanly, we are actually destroying the rural economy like this. But why should only the rural economy be equated, since you are Euroleaves, and that does not apply to illegal immigrants? So since we are all on an equal footing with the agricultural sector, Germany, which is rich with poor Greece, why don't we do that with illegal immigrants too, take them as well and not stumble us? This, gentlemen, is not Europe. This is a Europe of cards. Germany's Fourth Reich Europe. That is the reality - and if you want to say it, say it in here - of the Nazi, authoritarian, authoritarian conception of Germany. Such agreements should not even have signed them. You shouldn't have! Um, you kill the farmer, emphasizing the illegal immigration issue, you do not force Europe to do the same thing it did in the rural economy. I'm really wondering! Now we are going to the finest, which are difficult for you - I understand, Mr Voridis - on the issue of illegal immigrants. In our view, and I will say this once again, you are a government that is using erroneous tactics. Why am I saying that? You are the government that undoes and self-determination. I will not tell you liars, Minister, but I will say that you self-determination and self-determination. I have before me the law since 20 November 2019, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You voted for him. Look for this law. This law, therefore, essentially forbids push back and re-promotion. Here it is. Law of yours! Mr Chrysochidis voted for him here. I'm filing him in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's the law from November 20, 2019, the law was filed, I deliver it, to understand that while push back is forbidden by law, you come today and you say I'll do push back. So you do not rule properly or rule on paper and sloppy. Either one or the other, it's really bad for the country. If you heard us from July and weren't afraid, you weren't scared and you started a wall in Evros, you started a push back really, they went to the inhabited islands and not to structures, I'd say it directly, that you're building closed that isn't closed, we wouldn't have had that problem. But the worst of all, ladies and gentlemen, is another. Because history is repeated as a farce and is a spectral reproducing, unfortunately, for our country, today, Ministers, Greece is in the "May of 1453", early May. That's the truth. It went bankrupt, Byzantium had no money and resources back then and within Byzantium, Constantinople there were Notarades. Many Notarads exist in our country today. If not all political staff are assembled, if we do not really have national unity, but real and not party coalition at the expense of national issues, I fear that we will be the generation that will deliver smaller Greece. And I'm saying this because the Notarads aren't something simple, it's something very important for the course of history. Greece has always had Nights, always had traitors, because it had heroes. I don't want to be heroes. But we want to sing beings, logical beings. The Prime Minister set up a show last night - I'm sorry to say this - I went there the other day, clean Monday, I wasn't throwing an eagle or eating rabbits. I went to the area. All the show and the statement by the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that 'Evros does not fall', what does it mean? Can Evros fall from ten thousand unarmed? Is that what you told us yesterday? Is it possible for the Prime Minister of the country to go out and fight 'Evros'? For ten thousand unarmed, Mr. Voridis? "Doesn't Evros fall?" The Prime Minister shouldn't even say that. Not even the Prime Minister will vacate that. We have said from the first moment: the convergence of the Political Heads of State and Government to find red lines on all issues, because other issues, friends and friends will come. They said about push back and I'll say it again. In October you voted for the principle of non-refoulement by the Law of Chrysochoid and today you want to push back. Who should I believe? The New Democracy, then, or the New Democracy now? At last decide what you want and what you don't want. The biggest problem, friends and friends, is that you fall into the trap again. Do you think our problem is Evros? In Evros, no Turkish nostrils, understand it. Evros is very well fortified to be a problem. Its distraction is the Aegean. There's the big problem. They strike there to weary, but the whole story is the Aegean. If we don't make real push back in the Aegean Sea, we'll have a problem and I say it to understand it. Especially in the instruments that New Democracy controls to say that no one has ever said to journalists, since we all agree they are invaders, that they are illegal immigrants. Why do journalists and all channels call them refugees and immigrants? I didn't get it. You come to our line, to the line of reason, and you call them intruders. Even you say illegal immigrants, even you talk about a wall in Evros, what I said years ago. We came to the line of reason. Why not say: 'children, they are not refugees, they are not immigrants, they are poachers'. Why, I repeat, do the media continue to inform the refugee brainwashing? Who are they defending up there on Evros, ladies and gentlemen? It's not defending the Army. It didn't have to be happily, yet. They defend the bad MATs, which gentlemen here, together with me many times, we have been misunderstood. They deserve congratulations, to the MATs that are there and guard our own borders. Wrong, because the army guards the border, not the police! That's the first. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Second, who else? The Musketeers. Mr. Voridis, militia and militia, make a plan. And only what happened to Evros proves the necessity to do what the Greek Solution says, to organize a serious militia and ethnic militia. Because the national guards and the militia are going to the border, especially to Evros who know the passages and push back. Why don't you do that? You're listening, but I'll say it straight away. You copy us, but you're bad at copying. You're not really copying. I know that you don't copy me, because we used to talk about it, just now that you're in New Democracy you're necessarily making the need to be friendly and say it a little differently, but now you're back on the line of logic, Mr. Voridis. And that's good. It's never too late to go back to the line of reason, to the voice of reason. I hear from you, and I wonder if that's true, will you take them to a chariot? You're going to a ferry for those islands? So, we're going to keep making bankers our Navy? So let me give you an idea if you don't have any ideas, because from ideas you have deprived. Haftar needs our help, right? He came here, I saw him personally, and I spoke with him. He needs help from Greece. All Africans who come to Greece on ships, cruise ships you want, ferries you want, go to the Hufftar government to leave them there, get them to take them wherever they want. That's what government means. Haftar needs us. We give you, you give us, you get us out of the problem. For African countries. I'm not talking about Afghanistan - Pakistan, there's another solution there, I'll tell you another time. Today I will tell you the first solution. You make a deal with Huffar and take them to Africa. Africans are not refugees. They're illegal immigrants. Am I wrong? Are the Africans refugees? Oh, no. Based on the case law, it's not. So I take them to Haftar who needs help from Greece, I help him, he helps him, win-win, Kazan-cazan that Erdogan says. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u196	The others we're going to take them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u197	The other aces. We'll give you lessons, Mr. Levane, then. I am not telling you everything, because then you will say 'we did it'! You'll say after that you did it! I have told you since July what you are doing today. I say what you are doing today since July and you have called me extreme, Mr Levane, some liberals like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u198	Samaras has done it for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u199	Wall on Evros? 'Alt', 'alt', 'alt', 'alt'. I don't know you for "Samaric" you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u200	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u201	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u202	I do not know you about "Samaric" you, personally. Let's go down. Stop making the Greek Army a banker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u203	Did Samaras do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no! PASOK did it. I'm not lying. The fence, this wire did the PASOK. The wrong tactic, of course, had to be cemented, a real fence, I can tell you what to do. But why doesn't the police... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I am interrupted. I need more time, as I answer to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u205	You're welcome. Respect the speaker and I urge the speaker to be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, when Mr Koutsubas speaks, we hear him 30 minutes. Let us talk a little bit longer, it's not bad, I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u207	We're not against that. I didn't comment on you. I'm on my way. You want to hear? Good. You don't want to? Don't listen. The Bureau has asked you to shorten the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u208	This is the most important time - and I have also told the President of Parliament - that, while we talk, in the fifteen minutes, are starting to push underneath. When Mr. Koutsoubas, Mrs. Gennimatas, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis speak, nobody speaks. Well, I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Velopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u210	I'm not talking about you. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u211	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u212	Now you've had three minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u213	I may be presiding at the moment, but I am a member of the Bureau. The Bureau, in any case, shows its full tolerance to the political leaders. You have the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u214	I saw it in the seventeen minutes. You're telling me to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u215	But you're causing the dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Lebanese is flying. It's my fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u217	You are inviting the Bureau. In quotes, so we don't get any misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u218	Let us do the other, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. In Denmark, Austria and other countries, when an immigrant, a refugee, you want, for my left-wing friends, a illegal immigrant for us, enters the country illegally, the first confiscation is his cell phone and his valuables. They're being seized, Mr. Voridis. You remember them, we talked about them in the past. They're seized to see who they talked to, which slaves. I want the slave traders. Get them into life and never get out again. We want the slave traders. Because they're doing the slave trade. That's not what you're doing either. These gentlemen are coming here, the poor, the hungry, with the iPhone, taking pictures, charming, mocking the world and not doing the self-evident thing. I'll say it. And the measures you have taken now have an end date. It's for a month. It reminds me of the milk with the expiry date. You're a government with an expiration date. This emergency is until the problem is over. There are no measures with the expiry date. The measures are valid until the problem ends. Otherwise, there are no measures. Why a month? What's the word of one month? Explain to me. Will you solve the problem as Houdini? Tell me. If you solve it, it's me. We'll talk about this, too. Let's go to the last sentence, and I'm closing here, so I don't have more time. Those of you who know what buffer zone means - those you know, you are not obligated, you don't know, it's not bad, my Minister, in the Treasury - since Europeans are your friends and they love you so much, what country do the illegal immigrants come from? Turkey. Let them do a buffer zone there, so that Turkey, together with the European Union, can give the asylum to anyone who deserves it. On the territory of Turkey, however. That's called buffer zone. Who am I talking to, though? Who's listening to me? Why would you listen to me? Here yesterday I heard the JRC saying something similar. Same thing the JRC said. What did he say? In Turkey. There. We pay them money, they get them off the ground, they're all over the place. Why? The European Union will do so in Turkey. In eastern Thrace, would you like? Yeah. In Asia Minor you want? Five-six buffer zones, where the asylum will be given. What's simpler? Why not New Democracy suggest it? Why is the FINANCIAL TIMES report coming to confirm what we have been talking about for some time? Gideon Rachman, ‘FINANCIAL TIMES’, on 25-1-2016: ‘Greek debt, key to refugee crisis. Greece and Germany exchange their debts with illegal immigrants." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You don't talk about illegal immigrants because SYRIZA exchanged good cash, apparently, and the international press says so. And maybe you do the same. But no one speaks, not even the Greek media. Colleagues are taking it all down. So here's something weird going on. And that bothers me because it's behind the scenes and underground. Furthermore, no one knows that our country at the sea borders cannot do push back for two basic conditions. The first is because, my Minister, no base lines have been set. In international terminology the "baseline" is very important to push back or drug smugglers or cigarette smugglers or even illegal immigrants. Why am I saying that? Because with the base line you're making the border zone. A border zone means a zone that the Greek port can go and push back and Turkey will not come on the other side. I would like to tell you that these are our proposals which you have not heard. A border zone was made by all countries. Cyprus did too in 2004. We never did. Neither the New Republic of Karamanlis, nor the PASOK later, nor the New Democracy again, nor the SYRIZA, nor you. Now make a border zone. Make a base line. It's no different. Don't you realize you're making mistakes? False mistakes! As for the fence - and I close here - it's laughing. I went and saw it with my eyes. Let's go see it together. It's a thirty-year-old fence back. Just like we used to do chickens in our fields, that's what they use wire. Don't smile. I was there. The difference is, on the clean Monday, a lot of eagle flew and I flew over the Castanes and I saw it with my eyes. It's for chickens. You can cut it off with a tantalum and get in there. PASOK did so - and he did well - twenty - twenty - twenty - five years ago. It's over, make a concrete fence not to break in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u219	We did well then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u220	Yeah, well done, PASOK. Finally, because it is too much, I will say this. Mrs. Bakoyannis is gone. Amber Alert. It's gone. He had made a statement that he was not threatened - he says - by Turkey at all. Rosakis's gone. Dokos's gone. All the ELIAMEP people who were actually told to go to The Hague to find them with the Turks. Here, take the Turks and eat them now. Find them. Politics means prediction. Aristotle said so aristotle a thousand years ago. If, with such predictions, Mrs Bakoyannis wanted to become Prime Minister of the country in the past, we have had a good time! We'd go faster not on Cavalas, but we'd all be in here darker at least. Turning off to say this. Mr. Voridis, I need a favor from you. Nothing more. Stop lying. Not you personally, your government. Stop it. I'm telling you that. Why don't you really do the self-evident thing. And self-evident is specific. You are blushing with SYRIZA just to rally your party audience, copying us in many meters, but the essence is one. In order for the Prime Minister to go to the Castanes, Mr. Treasury, he needed a helicopter. That savage road to go from Alexandroupolis to Kastania, for thirty years, has been a terrible one. A country where its defence line does not have it in its faces - those of the people of Evros Prefecture who are our state guards - does not have them in who, in the inhabitants of the islands it sends the MATs and beats them - which today guard our borders - is a country that is a country that is unfair first of all to its citizens, is unfair to Greece, it is in the first place unfair to its presence and most importantly, it is led to destruction. Push back, wall, send illegal immigrants to Huffar. There's a solution. I'm talking to them. If you can't, I'll talk to them about this to solve problems. Otherwise, it will be you who do not want to solve the problem of illegal immigration, because you have agreed with Germany, as the international press says, to save them here. Unfortunately, if you do, you'll be criminals! I don't want to believe it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u221	Before giving the floor to the next speaker on the list, Mr Skrekas asked for the floor for a detailed reply to Mr Velopoulos, if I understood correctly, on the basis of the information he gave at the beginning. Here, Mr. Screka, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I mentioned to Mr Velopoulos that he would not continue and that he would be exposed to what he was saying, but he continued. He read that the Netherlands produces 1,700 euros of the acre, Israel 1,190 euros and Greece only 190 euros. And with these figures, which he has read and submitted, he is allegedly here in the House of Parliament, he has incurd me and what I have mentioned about the actual agricultural income per hectare, as I have mentioned, which Greece has today in relation to the Netherlands. I read the table from the European Statistical Office, which mentions agricultural income per hectare for all the countries of Europe of the twenty-eight. Greece, according to the European Statistical Office, on which all the data we use are based both in Greece and in Europe, has EUR 1,044 per hectare and the Netherlands has EUR 1.736 per hectare. I'm filing it in the House. It's what I mentioned. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Konstantinos Skrekas presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Velopoulou, I think you are starting to move dangerously in the direction and the side of SYRIZA. Because I'm going to tell you that SYRIZA executives have two strategies. One is the make news and the other strategy is false evidence, which has often brought here to the Greek Parliament and Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u223	Doctor, you guys have make news! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u224	I'd tell you to be careful a little, 'cause you've gone downhill. These figures I have submitted to you show the credibility of my own people's words in relation to your objections. Of these, the Greek Parliamentarians too can understand how reliable all the rest you have told us in your speech are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u227	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u228	Wait a minute. Let's set a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u229	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u230	Mr Apostle, the Bureau does not deny you the floor. Alas. Because Mr. Skrekas answered some of the elements that Mr. Velopoulos quoted in his speech, we will give the floor to Mr. Velopoulos to end this dimension of opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u231	The SYRIZA was involved in the make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u232	I shall precede, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u233	But, if you'll excuse me, will you hear what I want to say? I said that I would give the floor to Mr Velopoulos to resolve the issue of the evidence he gave each other. Mr Apostolos and the Minister, Mr Vorides, have then asked for the floor. Give the floor to Mr. Velopoulos. Mr. Vellopoulou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u234	May I propose something and make an intervention, with the consent of Mr Velopoulos, of course?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u235	Would you like to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u236	Can I give you one parentheses to talk about another matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u237	No, I want to answer the Minister. I'm sorry, Mr. Voridis. Minister, another courage and another courage. You're messing with it. I don't know where you got the evidence. What I gave you was "ECONOMIST", in the presence of the Greek Prime Minister. Or the Prime Minister didn't know what he was listening to, and he didn't understand what he was told, or you say nonsense or political nonsense. I must also point out that it is from ECONOMIST. It is not from ‘futidis.gr’. It is from ECONOMIST. Just so we know what we're talking about. On the other hand, if I did not know that you were a businessman who trades a particular drink, I would, in any case, believe that you trade in other beverages that have more alcohol. Do you understand what you said to me? I was telling you about 'ECONOMIST' acres and you told me about hectares based on the European Statistical Office. This was said in the presence of the Prime Minister of the country, I repeat, in the 'ECONOMIST'. He didn't tell me. And it's in the Minutes. If you want, take them, read them and come to my office and discuss them. On the other hand, by closing down to say that if in the 20 acres the farmer earned 1400 euros, it would be too much. What are you talking about? Where do you say that? Twenty acres are 30,000 a year. Are we serious? In Larissa, where are all the fields herds and barrens and nobody grows them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like the floor on what he said. He referred to what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Screka, we're not going to figure this out. Mr Velopoulos insists on the evidence he has given, and you are obviously insisting on the information you have given. We're not going to solve your dispute here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u240	Let me clarify something, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u241	Other production and other income.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, for a minute. I want to clarify something about what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u243	You'll have to clarify again. You have the floor for a minute strict, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u244	Keep going down. The information you mentioned did not mention it 'ECONOMIST'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u245	At the conference, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u246	Nor do they have the seal of 'ECONOMIST'. A gentleman who represents a bank said to say: "The Netherlands, with forty-five million acres, produces 1,700 euros per acre, Israel with...", he says, "... and Greece with thirty-seven million acres, produces a value of 190 euros per acre". Firstly, Greece has no thirty-seven million acres of crops. Greece has thirty-seven million acres of eligible areas. Twenty-four are cultivated, the rest are pastures. So this gentleman you mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u247	Aren't they producing the pastures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u248	Listen up! I'm sorry, but you were inadmissible, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u249	Please don't interrupt. Mr. Screka, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u250	I mentioned and submitted the data of the European Statistical Office. You continue the 'category' to want to distort and do challenge, to provoke the elements on which all of Europe is founded. From that point on, when we talk about 'produced agricultural income', we do not mean per hectare, Mr Velopoulos. We don't mean taxable income. We mean production of product value.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u251	Other income and other production.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u252	But you need to know. You're not from a rural area. Don't try to make the farmer. I come from Trikala, I know more than I know of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u253	The Minister won't teach me any lessons. There's another production and another income...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Velopoulou, this conflict is not going to end. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Screkas is a businessman and trades products which are imported. I produce products here. It's another production and another income, sir. Understood? Learn Greek! Other income with subsidies and other income from production. You don't even know the basics. It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Voridis, you asked for the floor. What about the things that have been discussed or something else?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u257	On immigration, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u258	Minister, I want the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u259	Minister, wait a minute. To give the floor to Mr. Apostle, because he wants to respond to a specific subject that he raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u260	Mr Apostle will then be involved in the debate, Mr President, but as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Apostle, do you want the floor on something said by Mr. Skreka?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u262	Yes, and about what Mr Velopoulos said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u263	You have the floor for a minute, but don't expand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u264	I am not going to cause a problem, Mr President. I just want to say that everyone who brings evidence in this Chamber has an obligation to substantiate it. If there is no documentation, then it is air.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u265	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u266	From there on, even if a speaker expresses opinions that may have been expressed by another party, it does not mean that Mr Screkas should say that he is leaning towards SYRIZA. I will say to him: I heard his speech in twice as much time as the one you gave him, and I found that his employment most of the time was around renewable energy issues and rural investment issues which had nothing to do with the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u267	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u268	So, Mr. Screka, be careful, especially when you express such opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u269	Good. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u270	I will be very brief, Mr President. I have heard Mr Velopoulos, the President of the Greek solution and a good friend, referring to the issues of the management and management of this very difficult situation that we have and which is in progress, it is not over. What impresses me on some interventions is the difficulty of recognizing what the government is doing today, of applauding and strengthening it. I am not saying that opposition parties can offer more than their moral and political support to the efforts the government is doing today to cancel the organised invasion plan prepared by Turkey. That is why we need, first of all, a clear support position on two specific things. All the rest of us are talking about. But here we are talking about this, about what is happening now. I will tell you why they are deliberately involved in this debate but issues. What are the issues we have to deal with? We have to deal with the organised channelling of thousands of people with systematic guidance and support from Turkey in order to come to Greece, namely Europe. This is what we have to deal with. What did our government do about it? Our government has closed the border everywhere. To reach agreement - because I have not heard you, Mr Velopoulos, stigmatizing something which is impressive to me - closed the borders and adopted a legislative act. What does it mean legally 'close the borders'? Has anyone understood what it means legally to 'close the borders'? It means I can't allow the entrance. Why don't I allow the entrance? There are legal ways of entering, except illegally. To say otherwise, if there was a line of twenty-thousand people on the border with Evros, which Turkey had allowed them to cross, and they reached the legal entrance to Greece and said: "A petition for asylum". What should Greece do? Does he look into it or not? If we have a line of twenty thousand people and they come because Turkey let them in and they get to the legal entrance. Does Greece take the request or not? So what did the government do, so that it would legitimately refuse to receive the request? It adopted the legislative act. What does the President of SYRIZA say? "Very well you've done for closing the border, good for you." He did not say that, of course, when he left eight hundred and fifteen thousand to pass. But it's okay. He said it now. But what did he say at the same time? 'Having adopted the Act of Legislative Action'. I mean, tricymia in a cranial. However, because there is no helmets in the helmets, there are false balances inside the SYRIZA, so that from one "What can we do? Realism requires that we say: You did well to close the border, but also to close the eye on SYRIZA's rightmakers who tell him: What are these? We are done with the reception, refugees welcome, organized plan of the Greek Government, in order to rally the right audience. Sunday adolescents, young SYRIZA adolescents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u271	SYRIZA's not a government yet!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u272	But today Mr Psychogios can say from the Step of the House: 'We have not been deprived of the legislative content.' But if you have not practically deprived of legislative content, you are basically saying that they can cross the border. What stops and closes borders is the act of legislation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, Mr. Velopole, I did not hear you stigmatizing it as the most hypocritical behavior that, in fact, even at this critical national moment, SYRIZA is trying to keep internal-party balances instead of supporting the Greek forces and the Greek Government that is fighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u274	I too, Mr President, want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u276	As far as you can see, Minister... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Calm down to put in a row. Let's start with Mr. Velopoulos. Then Mr. Katrinis and Mr. Apostolos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u277	When are we going to talk, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u278	You're telling me? Don't tell me. Don't make that kind of complaint. Well, I'll give the floor to Mr. Velopoulos, to Mr. Apostolos, to Mr. Katrin and then continue with the list. Warm request: There are thirty-two Members of Parliament, if I am not mistaken about the number, so that the list can be closed. Obviously with this process, we'll end at night. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u279	You know, Mr. President, I was told before that you can't mess with lawyers anyway. You can't easily mess with a Voridis Maki who has legal and signifying jumps. But I am a realistic perception, Mr. Voridis. Recognize what, that you copy us? I recognize that. You're copying us, then! What we've been telling you since July, you've been doing it today, now you're doing it. So don't tell me we don't recognize you. I just told you you guys are bad replicators. I'll tell you what, because you're copying it right and another way because you're copying it wrong. In the first two months, Mr. Voridis, you doubled the flows from the SYRIZA gentlemen who said the border is open, Mrs. Sia said all the poor ones would come here. Twice came when you ruled. And to tell you something, because you're talking about a closed border to end the little story? Why don't you close the gardens that pass the Turkish trucks to Europe and Erdogan can hurt? I close the Gardens, do not pass the five hundred trucks a day that is hundreds of millions of dollars or euros for the Turkish arms industry, please, as the Bulgarians did with the flow. And close to saying this. I'll say it one more time. I want to support any government that takes measures properly so that my place is not lost. Do not tell me: 'I am SYRIZA', 'I am a New Democracy', 'I am a PASOK'. Our term of existence is a unique, constructive one with proposals. I have tabled proposals and proved to you in the document - and you have not replied to me - that in Article 21 of the previous bill you have brought here, you are talking about non-refoulement. And today, after a month and a half, you say 'yes to the relaunches'. What's the matter? What you said two months ago or now? Now is this the emergency? I told you two months ago, as soon as you ruled, you doubled the flow. So if you really want to have a constructive opposition, stop wrestling here supposedly for your own party audience. They have heard you, you are an excellent speaker, indeed the neo-democratics are now all applauding together. And to SYRIZA, the same goes for you. It's none of my business, nor any applause I want. We must save Greece! Do you want a national confession? Call Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Koutsuba, Mrs. Gennimata, all parties, meet political leaders to end the story. After all, we will have been talking for months about Afghans, Pakistanis, Algerians, Congolese and asylum seekers. Well, that's not the policy, Mr. Voridis. I'm sorry. It's about the impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Trikalon. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Voridis, do you forget you're a government? Why are you upset? You said a moment ago: 'We have guarded the borders, we have closed the borders'. And, of course, we told you that the borders were always guarded, especially in the Evros area, which is why they had influxes from the sea side. And there, as you can imagine, we were obliged, because this was how the conditions were shaped, to save the people whose lives were threatened. From there and beyond, at a time when our President in particular - not only yesterday but also yesterday - had given himself and all the party to be able to help in this direction, you come and now raise the issue of extending asylum for a month, when we have a Turkey that now puts a geopolitical issue with its entire effort and pushing, I would tell you, those who want to illegally enter the country. And we say very simply that you did very well. But, especially as regards the asylum you use...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u282	What about the PND?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u283	Wait a minute. Let me finish. What are you doing? You extend the procedure for a month, because you know that you cannot close, because there are international conditions that do not give us such a chance. With this month, then, that you are prolonging the asylum to know that you will increase the problem and at the same time will increase the stay of those who have made the demands in question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u284	So, we should pick up applications?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u285	Therefore, do not use communication an issue that does not give a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u286	Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u287	No, you understand. When we have international treaties and international obligations, international obligations...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u288	Make it clear what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u289	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u290	These are not solutions, because they are increasing the problem again. So we are telling you this and now: is it so difficult and after yesterday's communication phase to call for the European Union summit? I mean, at last! In order for the European Commission to assume its responsibilities, having signed a specific agreement with Turkey. When will it be possible to implement what is to be imposed - it is assumed - as sanctions by the European Commission? Is there a more difficult situation than this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u291	Mr Katrinis has the floor, and then we will continue with the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much, Mr President. A very interesting conclusion has been drawn from the debate: The country, beyond a shadowy television minister for immigration policy, has also acquired a shadowed parliamentary Minister for Migration Policy. I do not know, Minister, if you are very pleased that the President of the Greek Solution finds points in your policy and welcomes you for that. And I don't mean you personally, but your government. At the moment, however, we must all agree that there is a very critical juncture. It is your right when you ask for national unity, solidarity and understanding, that you continue as a government and as an order for the second day within this House this game of blame for the previous government, in other parts. And you do so at the same time that we want as a country to get through a message of unity and understanding in Europe and against Turkish provocativeness. This is your right, it is within your own political strategy. However, in addition to the display of internal consumption you are trying for two days in this Chamber, it is your duty at the same time to tell us what you have asked the European partners and if you have shown the same force and negotiating power, which you are saying you are doing within the country. Have you asked for the suspension or abolition of the Dublin Treaty? Have you asked that there be financial sanctions in Turkey? Have you asked for specific measures by the European Union to be taken against Turkish aggression, or are you just saying, today, satisfied with the announcements by officials yesterday in Evros, who said that they would strengthen Frontex and with some millions of euros will help us to manage the thousands of flows, which apparently have decided to enter the country? Here, then, take a clear position on whether you will continue this demonstration of political power at internal level or whether you will really negotiate at European Union level for the interests of the country, which - if you want to - make sure that you find proper support from all parties, from the whole spectrum of the political world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u293	This is the end of the matter. We'll keep going. We have a bill to discuss that is in progress. Allow me to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "Rigas and RENAVIS" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-four students and two teachers from the American College of Greece. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u295	Mr Arachovitis has the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a very serious bill dealing with the primary sector, with primary production. The debate is obviously out of date at the request of the communists of the New Democracy. I would ask the Bureau personally to protect the procedure. What is taking place every two days is the order of the New Democracy communists - I say again - in order to cover the government's responsibilities in dealing with a problem, with the MATs on the islands and with the situation in Evros, we must stop. And please for your protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u297	We must all contribute to this, Mr Arachovitis, all the parliamentary groups. However, the two-thirds, perhaps more of the speakers, at yesterday's sitting and today, apart from some ministers or parliamentary representatives, were starting not with the bill, but with the developments. So all the groups in Parliament should contribute in this direction. Mr. Heimaras has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Respect the speaker, ladies and gentlemen! Start, Mr. Himara.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. I shall speak, Mr President, about the bill. However, because I have been following the whole procedure for the last two days, whether from here or from my office, I would like to say that I have not seen Mr Vorides raise a point of order. I've seen the Minister respond to the issues that you keep putting on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u299	You weren't in the Chamber for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u300	I was. I watched - I told you - the whole process. Mr. Vorides hasn't started. You all put permanent topics in your speeches. I see speeches on the agricultural issue of cooperatives that are very important - we all understand it - from seven minutes to five minutes on this issue, on the issue of the fight they are giving. And of course, I should also convey my thoughts. Our hearts, our thoughts are in the children of the Armed Forces and the Security Corps. They have prevented twenty - seven thousand attempts. There have been two hundred twenty arrests. Finally, Greece has borders that are guarded. That's what I want him to stay. And because a lot has been heard by Mr Velopoulos before, I do not adopt Mr Velopoulos's report that we need to act to unite the political potential as a whole. I take the view that the entire political potential and the entire Greek people have been assembled. And let us be sure, ladies and gentlemen, with the small presence I have, I am a Member of Parliament for seven months - that no one likes this picture of the conflicts. I'm coming to the bill. And I start with two data. Of the six thousand agricultural cooperatives registered, only eight hundred are in operation - so many in their speeches have said -, of which only 1/5 are considered viable. The second point I would like to make is that at the same time Greek agri-food products that travel to the markets become sick. I know that second one myself. How do I know? As Vice-President of the Region of Central Greece, I started in 2015 with a group of thirty producers in our region to travel to exhibitions. We went in 2015 to four exhibitions in Greece and one abroad. In 2016 we saw that this is what it pays. We increased the number in ten reports, the thirty, forty producers became a hundred. We arrived in 2018 to participate in twenty-five exhibitions and in 2019 in twenty-five exhibitions by Greece and abroad, thus facilitating our producers and our cooperatives to find a way out of the market and, of course, to avoid intermediaries. Our products are suffocating - I told you - and we were on the market. Greek products, the products of the Region of Central Greece - you know that very well, Mr Apostolos, because of and locality - were on the shelves. The problem was that, unfortunately, many contracts from this good practice that I described just now - the thirty, forty producers who arrived to be eight hundred throughout the region exporting along with the cooperatives - and 80% of the small producers went out of the market in the first two years, while they closed contracts, whereas their products were mainly purchased in northern Europe and in America. We were helping as a periphery, but you understand that they evaluated the products themselves. We have then come to the fact that they cannot respond to demand, to the fact that there is no tonnage required to comply with the contracts. And this, if we look a little further - because I have experienced it - is also due to the lack of education in a particular proportion of our farmers. Think about how many of us at the age of being here in the Chamber since we were in elementary school and then in high school we ever did teamwork. I see it as a parent to my children. I see at the same time the children of a friend of mine, who is in Sweden, where all of their work in elementary school, like mine, are grouped. That's where they don't tell Dimitris, Costa, Olga. That's where they say good for the team. They learn, then, their children from a very young age to cooperate. The second problem is the culture that we live in our villages, because family law and property culture have not facilitated the transfer of the clergy, property. On the other hand, sharing is being adopted. I mean, in simple terms, a farmer who has 100 acres and has a daughter teacher and a son of a farmer will share from 50 acres. He won't let the farmer make, invest on this land and be viable. It's a big problem. The average lot is only 68 acres in Greece, almost a third of the European average. The size of the agri-food sector with this data I mentioned to you makes the Greek units uncompetitive. And I'm entering the cooperatives. What is happening with the cooperatives - to be honest - mainly with farmers, but also with the state, to a large extent? The cooperatives did not work, as they should. The "I" within the cooperatives was never subordinated to "we", as I told you before that it had to be done by the school and we should learn it. On the other hand, the state in our country has changed the law seven times, has nine hundred fifty amendments in the last four years. Is that healthy first? It's not. In Germany at the same time - the law that has been in force since 1889 has changed very little. So the law that we are bringing today - because I do not have time to go over it - enables the members of agricultural cooperatives to form the right framework for them to operate the agricultural cooperative. It responds to the request of the cooperative farmers to establish a National Cooperatives Coordination Organisation and of course sets out the conditions for the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives. I see behind there, Minister, that you want a serious partner at the table so that you can discuss the future of the farm in our country. We are simplifying the procedure for establishing the cooperative. We're reducing the faces from twenty to ten. It's very simple and very reasonable. Farmers are asking for this in our region. Three farmers cannot agree with each other. Imagine the twenty! The ten more easily can work together, and when they step on their feet, they can increase that number. Also, a minimum production rate that it delivers to the agricultural cooperative is 75%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A personal experience and I will close, Mr President. I just need a minute. The cooperatives that were with us and that were coming abroad were going very well. They booked purchases, but abroad they had to invoice. They couldn't move them black their money or their quantity. So the Katorugalou tax law is coming, and from where the producers gave to the good cooperatives, Mr Apostolos, in our region 80% of their production, they were forced to give 20% and 80% of them looking to give it black. I bet - I put it quickly, Minister, I put it in the tax bill - to strengthen the dynamics of our farms, 10% of a single tax rate on the invoice to be issued by the cooperative farmer in the cooperative, real incentive to reverse this image and to give 75% of production to the cooperative so that the cooperative has the money to apply standardisation to marketing and to take products out on the markets. It's critical. I won't even stand on everything you've said. It's too much. The Minister has answered, they have all answered. What extends this bill, makes it clear, is that the plant producer in Makris and Molos, in my area, in Fthiotida, in my village, in Lianocladi, and table olive in Stylida, is the first and last reason for the cooperative to which it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u301	Mrs Lykouli Evangelia has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u302	Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what any of us say here, history does not obey orders. He does not propose or choose. Her pen is writing in her own black. Her eye and ear approach the facts and record details, always ready for the sudden, but also openness. Our country lives the sudden and openness and today, at the pace of national events, rapid developments and news, which come from the remote regions of the country, Evros and the islands every day. The country is under an organised attack by Turkey, with strategic planning and assistance of all its state and state mechanisms. It's unprecedented what's happening. Thousands of refugees and immigrants accompany and encourage military Turkish vehicles, assist them with the supply of tear gas and chemicals, and above all assure them that they will, with perseverance and patience, pass within twenty-four hours in the country and reside unobstructedly in it. The images are shocking. The news follows our images, and our images haunt, the image of thousands of people who have worked from Turkey unintentionally, as a mass of meat, indifferent to the end, even to the sanctuary and loyal, indifferent to young children, the image of the boat with the forty foreigners, who accompanied them by the Turkish dormant and smashed it to the rescue of our port, with the tragic effect of a small child drowning, the image of thousands of our own children on the border standing by keeping the country from the new threat. I would remind you that these are the same youngsters, who do not miss the opportunity in other cases to call indifferent, indifferent, alienated from modern morals, these are the same children who are now guarding their homeland. We have the image of thousands of people in Greece to declare solidarity, solidarity, unity, unity in every way. And all these images together, in a sad, contradictory, surrealistic cat, are complicated and wrapped and breathtaking. The almost sandy border guard on Evros, the grandmother, who experienced the war with trachanades and pies, to feed the police, the hole boat that takes with her to the deep hope, but also a small child, the refugee mother who lifts her wrapped baby over the fence, appealing to a god who seeks and does not find, the policeman who binds the wounds from the stones and returns to the post, the ninety-year-old islander, who, with his baton, came out in the protest of Mytilini asking for his island back, asking for his life. The Mediterranean in a tower and the Balkans in a fire. The leaderships in diplomatic fever both peoples again on a new adventure. They lose their identity, lose their soul, and the incubation of the snake continues, as if incubation is difficult. Where is Europe, ladies and gentlemen? Doesn't he hear the screams? He doesn't listen and he doesn't see the pictures? Don't you smell the bartender? Is the assurances and the promises of aid enough? Is it enough, Minister, to hit the shoulder and tour at the border? What do you think of that? The government must take forceful and effective initiatives, forcefully press, to say that we are determined to find a solution now to the refugee problem. We have real unprecedented conditions, but we also have moral excellence. It is Europe's responsibility to Greece, a country that has now suffered the pandemics, founded the jersey and killed the body to get the cart out of the mud. We are a country which has been tested, which has been deported, but which has also become the test tube of all kinds of memoranda, measures and restrictions imposed by Europe and the IMF itself. So you can't talk like that right now in this country. You also have a moral obligation to transfer Europe's debt, which is both moral and Union, otherwise they will be responsible for what is happening in our country and Europe will never be the same again. Farmers are protesting these days that we are not talking about agricultural cooperatives. I have an opinion on how our parliamentary agenda should be established, ladies and gentlemen. Tomorrow I am rapporteur for a bill from the Ministry of the Interior and I do not feel very well to suggest self-government and public administration when my country is burning and my country is at a different rate. The steam engine of Greek agricultural production is the fact that it is the rural area. I come from a prefecture, the Larisa Prefecture, which is the backbone and has created so far, and has endured so far, despite the difficulties and the great pressures. We should at some point be honest with the world. Stop changing the laws at last. We have more than nine hundred fifty arrangements for agricultural cooperatives, when Germany has had a law since 1889. How can we apologize to this world for what we've done? We have a bad past, indeed, from the cooperative movement. When the parties entered the cooperatives and became a feud, the cooperatives of the parties stopped their cooperatives. It's an admission. But then what? The lies seem to be over, the borders fall, the markets open. Can a small producer stand alone? Shouldn't we really protect our world from the new guy's tricks and the multinationals? Is there anything else that can be proposed in addition to synergy and cooperation? But how do you propose it, Minister? You put on the back door and you create - what window - balconies in private capital and thus give control to the reality of cooperatives, creating a zipper. In other words, you dare say that, while there are associations, there are partnerships between cooperatives, which can make this easier. But you choose the other structure, the primary form, the cooperatives themselves put control over it. That is where a very big problem arises. You cannot gain credibility and trust once again. The new Memorandum of Understanding or will be created with the main pillar of the agricultural sector or there will be no one at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You are currently creating one chaos once again in the agricultural cooperatives. You do not create incentives, you do not give strength and new horizons, but you are limiting the possibilities of agricultural cooperatives to what you already know, to stumbled and controlled by individuals in their heads. Today the Greek farmer is in despair. Ask you to really indulge with very much affection and care in how to make use of it in the next decade. Unfortunately, what is collected from your Ministry is problems that are not removed, and you also ask for vision. You are asking for a visionary objective in agricultural cooperatives, you who have now left the area without water, the drilling regime, the property status of many lands unresolved. Unfortunately, you are constantly creating problems with regard to compensation with mechanisms which you have not modernised with wine growers, fruit growers, with the dismantling of cotton producers and two-day producers. How do you respond to the farmers, as your colleague in the Chamber of Deputies said, who are currently in the Great Freedom and are opposed to your bills and intentions as far as the programmes are concerned? How do you ask these people to envision the present and the future in the name of development and thus contribute to the development of the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u303	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u304	I shall conclude, Mr President. We, at the Change Movement, give the battle, because PASOK was the movement that reformed Greece, which represented the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer, making them out of the margin. We've written history. You're trying to alter this story. I often see in the bills that come - I will say this tomorrow - to put false titles so that you can pass on the oblivion of history the big areas and the reforms. You should be more creative, use the story to teach you rather than dismiss yourself from history. Unfortunately, this does not primarily help Greece, especially the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u305	Mr. George Arvanitides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. In addition, we experienced the solidarity of the Larissa Prefecture with the strong agricultural production, with Ms. Likoli and the President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if there was a bill that should symbolise the new era in the Greek economy and the real change in the production model in Greece, this should be a bill for new agricultural cooperatives, a bill that will effectively motivate producers to develop the cooperative on new sound foundations, a bill setting order on a number of scattered provisions and to modernise the agricultural sector of our country from which we can and can expect a lot. So instead of these, you bring a draft "Drojan Horse" bill to change the form of the cooperatives, a "Droin Horse" bill that undermines the democratic functioning of the cooperatives without, however, guaranteeing their renovation and with many traps for their future. And I call it the Trojan Horse, because you put private investors in this role within the cooperatives, as what you tell us with this bill is that the problem of bankrupt or bankrupt cooperatives will be solved automatically by the introduction of a private investor. But that, Minister, has already been implemented in other countries and has already failed. Really, how easy and why would a private person invest in an already bankrupt cooperative? What will he pursue? In addition, cooperatives already have the flexibility to make deals with private investors. What, moreover, prevented such a creative relationship between capital, investor and cooperative? In my opinion, this should not be the case, unless we do not want investors, but we want clearers, someone to take responsibility and if it results from all this management, to play the role of the clearer and not the investor. All you can achieve with this bill is that you give the privateer the power to make decisions on his own, and if there's no quorum, what's wrong? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] But let us say that you are indeed right and that this will help. Is that enough? Are you going to solve the pathogens and problems? The fact that cooperatives have not gone well and failed with the responsibility of all of us, and let us admit it in this Chamber, does not mean that the association, this idea of cooperation between people, has failed. We tend any attempt or action that fails to load everything into the idea, self-government, cooperatives are to blame. Our policies are to blame, that is what we need to change. The new productive model of the Greek economy in order to get into the path of sustainable development, needs a completely different agricultural sector, a different and differentiated agricultural sector based on strong cooperatives, strong cooperatives and rural sectors that are not in turn based only on funding and subsidies, but are recognised as autonomous economic and social forces with entity and authority. Only such strong cooperation can interfere with market mechanisms and lead our products to local and global markets. The previous colleague discovered that participation in the reports solves the problems. This was an old stage, we passed it in tourism, we passed it in the rural economy. Much more serious things we have to do. On his own, then, the producer cannot produce critical sizes that the market is asking for, especially in our country with the fragmented lot. It cannot have much access to distribution networks, which are, of course, constantly changing and setting market rules. So we need strong cooperatives that unite productive forces, which can immediately adapt to the rapidly changing market conditions. We need strong cooperatives that take advantage of the last word of technology to promote and produce their products, but also to monitor market trends. The debate I have just made on the Netherlands and Israel is not a matter of absolute numbers, but it must concern us how a country like Israel has been alive in the wilderness, how a country with these climate conditions in the Netherlands has managed to have such an added value in products. In Greece we must at last recognise the historical role and necessity of cooperatives, which are irreplaceable to date, but we must also understand that the nature and content of the partnerships must be changed, because the conditions change and they must be constantly adapted. After all, the cooperative in the Larissa Vineyards was a hundred years ago. People of necessity united forces to build their lives. So the cooperatives must now play the role of producing safe, quality products produced by environmentally friendly methods, which are processed in order to incorporate added value and to find the way to the new markets. The partnership of the future is the one that operates in terms of a cooperative sharing economy. What's that? Each partner had a tractor so powerful. But why did the cooperatives become? To have common means to be able to drop the cost. For us, I reduce the cost means 'give me the oil', 'give me the farmland and so I'll produce better' or 'give me so much honor and I'll continue to do the same practices'. These methods are over. Who's gonna have the products? How in the markets, which allow you the first time to place products on their shelf, will you continue to have the same quality and use practices they want? These cooperatives we want and we can have them. Give an example for my area, for the Rigios of Halastra. You know how many thousands of acres there are. So, is there a cooperative doing what? She's packing. And he wonders 'Why can't I be placed on the market?' It does not produce added value. It does not use the biomass there by tons to produce energy and reduce costs. And next to EURICOM, another company from Italy, takes the products, by-products, off the market. This example is the need for a pilot action that we will show people from the beginning to the end what we are describing, because otherwise no one is going to be concerned with this credibility that the Greek state has, with this credibility that Greek universities have, in the way the farmland market works, to have confidence, no young man will find himself in the choice of leaving the city, to put his son in production. Everyone will expect in the well-known way, when the subsidies will come, when the ELGA will pay, "when you will support us and grant us oil". In this way, the agricultural sector cannot function. With these thoughts, I think we should all consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u307	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u308	Ladies and gentlemen, I had thought about starting my speech with the fact that, as I felt, everyone's thoughts are on Evros, is up there, where our national and territorial integrity was tested a few days ago in terms of invasion and unprecedented and organised attack by immigrant people who wanted to cross the border. But I was wrong, because I see that not everyone is thinking there and on the possible consequences that all of this might have, but it is also in - and mainly concerning Civicism, but also other parties - small and medium-sized games that have nothing to do with this Chamber. Finally, we have to understand that things have changed, that there are certain conditions on which this Chamber must decide and, in any case, appear outward. We cannot currently have these micro-party games and political hypocriticals in a crucial matter for our national security, our national dignity and, above all, the unity of the Greek people. The presence of the Prime Minister yesterday together with me has included the political leadership of the European Union, all the institutions of the European Union, and I have presided over the President of the European Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Lyen, every Greek - not us of the New Democracy, which you will now say on duty - has filled us with pride and confidence. When I see Europe's political leadership in Sinouquet to observe this design made by its neighbour, I as Greek, but above all our children, those who will succeed us tomorrow and make the happy prospect for the place, it must fill us with confidence. Mitsotakis was able to get them on a helicopter to see what's happening right now in our homeland. And we come here, on the one hand, and you say - Mr Tsipras, who has emerged a long time ago - that the borders must be closed and, on the other hand, there must be voices, as the Minister said earlier, the act of legislation on the suspension of asylum seekers for a month. Tell us what you want. I don't want to think if you were government, what would happen today in Athens. I do not want to think about it, but you realise that all of this creates a story completely disobedient to the Greek people. You are in constant contact with your authentic person who is 3%. Go back there, but we should know and know that the Greek people who trusted you in a critical period. I would also like to say that what happened to Evros yesterday with the political leadership of the European Union must make us all think about and make proposals for the reconstruction of a single European security policy, which has been abundant for many years with no party excluded. In other words, we must see what it means tomorrow, since we are - and we must prepare it as a country - the borders of Europe, as we say, what can be done tomorrow in a single European defence and security policy, because the times have changed, the borders have changed their role and in any case we are here in a neighbouring and more general region which has huge problems. I'm coming to the bill. Minister, indeed this bill clearly simplifies the operation of agricultural cooperatives, these agricultural cooperatives that we all know for so many years from all eight thousand are in place - the eight thousand with seals and the six hundred so many, eight hundred - with all the problems of the cooperative movement as well as the trade union movement. It simplifies their operation, contributes to the self-employed and encourages the attraction of private capital, that is to say, a private person with a staff member who will be able to donate the agricultural cooperative better and more modernly, contribute and have a say in this process. Its statute will now be approved by the Ministry of Development and not court decisions, and it will also shorten the number needed to establish the cooperative at ten and less. I have some friends who, in an area of my own homeland, Laconia, want to form a partnership in Batika to bring back the Vatican onion, an excellent product that has been perpetrated because of the lack of a collective expression. There's not that today. This all creates a new proposal for the cooperative movement, a proposal that we must all support. I feel that all of you who have invoked the past through a law which was ultimately incomplete, ladies and gentlemen, must contribute in this direction. Also, Minister, this is a very important opportunity to see issues that continue to exist. You have no direct responsibility in this, but as far as the Greekizations of agricultural products, milk and edible olives are concerned, as regards the price of oil that it is funny to think that the Minister can determine the price of oil - we do not live in a Soviet regime, we have to see a popular policy on our national product. Regarding the issues of ELGA: You said and was an important intervention of yours, that the ELGA must now move on private-financial criteria. Let's also talk about private ELGA. I have seen statements that are a little relevant, not yours. I believe that agricultural insurance must enter a new orbit, discuss with producers, discuss with all those who, when the loss-making event occurs, do not have the ELGA next to them, see what they want and move on to a freedom of choice through private insurance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to say something about an issue we have raised together - I would like a minute, Madam President, because there was tolerance for all my fellow Members - and I have seen a hustle, unconscious cattle. It was born out of many Eritreans colleagues. The unscrupulous cattle affect each of us, each of us in terms of safety and health issues. In my special homeland, in Mani, there is a huge issue of unattractive bovine animals, and we need to see it collectively. It is not just your responsibility, it is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior, but we need to see it. In view of the debates on the new CAP, which are indeed specific, which are fewer, specific policies need to be targeted: the production of quality products, issues relating to another strategy and, above all, the encouragement of young children to return to agricultural production, the rural economy. Our country cannot host about one and a half million foreign workers in rural land, when Greek citizens are now avoiding the agricultural profession, for the well-known specific reasons I cannot say. We need to produce quality products and we need the example of the Netherlands, which has already been mentioned, as a model, as a model for policy implementation, Minister. It cannot even be said today - and I repeat it is not about your seven-month office, but we must see it - that the tomato producer, for example, buys tomato seeds from the Netherlands and not have the seed bank that has been said before, within the storm of populism that has been created by Mr Velopoulos. Israel's model must also be analysed in order to move forward with a different policy, as well as water management issues. My own regions, the runaway of the Euro and the Molas, with the backing of water, set an example of a case of work for policy implementation, as well as of improvement plans. It's issues too much. These are issues which have to do with the Greek region, which will not exist unless the country's rural world is in need of impetus and a new policy. I'm sure you can do it. Go ahead and we're with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u310	Madam President, may I take the floor for two parliamentary amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u311	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u312	I asked for this interruption because the previous colleague, Mr Davakis, also raised the question of dealing with the problem of unavoidable bovine animals. Yesterday Mr Kavadas from Lefkada, Mr Kavadas from Lefkada, tabled an amendment, which is the general number 194 and a special 13, the content of which is the following, in order to understand a little what is called to deal with the legislative framework. In fact, we have cattle that are evacuating from control, become unconscious, go to mountain areas and there is no easy way to get them back together and take them to management. Lawfully, this is an obligation of the municipalities. But, practically, there is no way to do this. So what this amendment does is that it enables unconscious productive animals to be arrested and collected from the workshops in the previous subparagraph, which, as laid down in the law, are workshops for forestry officials or veterinarians, to be made possible by stunning them using the special anaesthetic weapons provided for in the term of the law. It's the gun law, which says what anesthetic weapons are. So I accept this amendment. It is an amendment to the co-responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Development. I have contacted the ministers, they too agree with the amendment, and I therefore accept this amendment. The second amendment tabled on the part of the Change Movement is an amendment which refers to a previous article by the Central Cooperative Associations. This was put as a request from the only existing Central Cooperative Union, the JEOSOE. Is this union for wine, and what does it actually say? It says that we should also allow there to be sectoral cooperative organizations per product. Although I have examined and have considered the matter several times, I do not accept the amendment, and I will tell you why. I believe that, firstly, this gap is largely covered by inter-branch organisations. That's the one. I therefore want to strengthen inter-professionalism and not break down the basic structure of inter-professional organisations. The inter-branch organisations are of increased legislative importance - let me say so - not to say strength, but important - precisely because they are actually provided for in the European Regulations. This is a provision which has been in existence for too many years. No other sectoral organization has been set up but this particular organisation. KEOSOE is maintained. I am therefore not in favour of the JEHOE itself, but of maintaining it. On the other hand, maintaining an institution which, on the one hand, is breaking down - I say again - the issue of interbranch organisations and the need to strengthen interbranch organisations and, on the other hand, has not worked at all, I think it has no meaning and that is why I am not accepting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u314	There are reactions, but you need to see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u315	He's involved in the interprofessional profession.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u316	Interprofessionalism is not an economic organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u317	She's a trade union. It's not economic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u318	One thing and another thing. The JEHOE is an economic organisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u319	Now Mr Pascalides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Greek agriculture is characterized by the large number of small farms, where a significant proportion of workers are employed. The productivity of this sector of the economy and the incomes of those who serve it falls considerably short of other European countries and other sectors of the Greek economy. The change in the characteristics of the sector is de facto a difficult and time-consuming process, and already the need to increase competitiveness and improve the economic and social level of farmers is pressing. The cooperatives, which, in their traditional or modern form, have deep roots in Greek society and have to show remarkable achievements, are able to offer valuable assistance. In this context, therefore, today's bill comes to bring about significant changes in the way agricultural cooperatives are organized and operated, which had also been the pre-election commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Indeed, this bill completely changes the cooperative landscape on the basis of the resolution of the many agricultural cooperatives in our country and the ultimate aim of them to evolve into healthy competitive enterprises, as was stated by the Minister responsible, Mr Vorides, to whom they deserve great congratulations, not only for the debate in the bill but also for the huge struggle he gives every day in order to lay the foundations for the emergence of the Greek rural economy in order to be able to respond to the modern competitive environment that has been formed on the world market. More specifically, the first article gives the definition of agricultural cooperatives as autonomous voluntary associations of persons seeking economic development and the promotion of their members. Agricultural cooperatives are considered as cooperatives of any sector, i.e. fisheries, livestock, apiculture, agro-industrials, with the exception of forests, while it is specified that they are individuals of a commercial character. It is worth noting that this article provides for the possibility of providing agricultural cooperatives or third parties with microfinances in the form of credits up to EUR 25 000 in total for each partner. The draft also provides for the reduction of the minimum number of persons required for the establishment of agricultural cooperatives, from twenty to ten, while in areas with less than three and a half thousand inhabitants there will be no numerical restriction. For the setting-up of women's agricultural cooperatives, members of which can only become women, the minimum number of five founding members is required. In addition, the process of establishing agricultural cooperatives is facilitated by the possibility of being set up by an administrative act, which will be adopted by the Ministry's department and not by a judicial decision, as provided for in the Act in force. At the same time, it is of particular importance to ensure the possibility of participation in agricultural investment cooperatives as members of them, in order to enable the cooperative to be supported by the influx of necessary funds, whenever necessary, but without losing its cooperative character. In particular, it is foreseen that investors may participate with more than one mandatory portion, each being entitled to vote at the general meeting. The total percentage of capital, which can be held by investors, can be up to 35%. In addition to Article 8, the minimum rate of production to be delivered by each member to the agricultural cooperative shall be set at 75%. Article 9 of the bill stipulates that the co-operative capital is to a minimum EUR 10,000, but also the time to waive claims by the agricultural cooperative against members of the administrative boards for acts carried out in the performance of their duties and have caused fraudulent damage to the agricultural cooperative. Among other things, there is provision for the possibility of creating a special reserve from the surpluses or profits of agricultural cooperatives, and this draft law redefines the tax regime for the operation of agricultural cooperatives. Finally, provision is made for the establishment of a legal person under private law of a non-profit character entitled ‘National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives’, which is the National Coordinating Organisation of Agricultural Cooperatives and other persons registered in the relevant register. In conclusion, I should like once again to express my congratulations to Mr Voridis and his colleagues for their uninterrupted efforts to improve the conditions of rural activity in general, always standing in favour of our farmers and listening very carefully to their requests, as I can state in my own understanding. I would also like to tell you that I visited our borders on Monday, starting with the Castanes, and I can tell you what I saw. There are no Turkish soldiers at the border. At the border there are only these refugees. While on our borders there are soldiers and policemen, on the Turkish border there is no one. In front they have the refugees, who anointing stones to our own guards. I was ahead when they were chemically cast against our soldiers, against our policemen, and they were trying with smokers to cut off the wires to get through. With the tobacco that the Turks have given them, they wanted to cut the wires and try to get through. I saw the fire brigade, the police, and then the military, reset the wires. I crossed the border from top to bottom. I'm all the way to Fairyland. The Neraidochori is very low, it's in the Ferres, where there are about twenty people with shifts, policemen returning with a boat. I would very much like this boat to be strengthened with thermometers, because people there are giving a big fight. And down there I didn't see any Turkish soldiers anywhere. I only saw refugees trying to get through. I would like to tell you, therefore, that at some points that have passed, I found coins and identity cards of military Turks. When they pass, they burn their clothes. I would like to testify and tell you that there is a perfect cooperation between the police, the military, firemen and volunteers. The high mind is there. There's no way anyone's going through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 3126/2003 of the ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force on 4 March 2020: a criminal case against the former Ministers of Justice, Michael Kalogerou and Stavros Kontonis. Mr Kegeroglu from the Change Movement has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very serious issue concerning rural development, but because of developments, we are also discussing a national issue. I think that, apart from our reference and the expression of an opinion on this serious national issue that has arisen, it is a deterioration in the debate on the occasion. And I say this because we as a Movement of Change, continuing the tradition of PASOK, stand firmly and dynamically, with patriotic responsibility on all national and major issues, away from unreasonable internationalism and dangerous nationalism. We believe that there should be a stable, firm national line in addition to the communication management, good or bad, which will lead us to the next day. We cannot continue to follow Turkey's action with reactions. I'll be clear. The Council of Political Heads we have been asking for a long time is not about photographs or cafés, but about the development of the necessary national strategy. They've changed the data. Turkey has changed its strategy. We need to shape ours. And unfortunately, we have not done so. In the second place, when it comes to addressing the threat to the security of our borders these days, which we all express, in one way or another, our support and participation and our agreement to what our country must do. There is also the second thing to do with the responsibilities of the European Union. And here, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, forgive me, but you must not be kings of the king. Even our Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, said we expect tangible solidarity. So what did he say? Let me explain, so you don't follow the wrong line. He said they should show samples in particular. The statements are good, but we want tangible samples of this policy. So we in these days are saying this in a concrete way: the European Union cannot continue to live in good declarations. Each State separately shall pursue its own policy. Yes, we are satisfied with France's policy. We are not at all satisfied and we are opposed to what Germany does. We therefore need a single European attitude and using specific tools. The clause on matters relating to solidarity cannot be activated unless a summit is held. That's clear. Neither the Foreign Affairs Council nor the Internal Affairs Council can give a solution. The second element is that we need to take a step forward. I shall refer here to the issues that are related to tools that we can use. But at this point, I would also like to mention something that has to do with the House. Yesterday, the President of the Change Movement, Fofi Gennimata, sent a letter to the President of the Parliament and asked, on the basis of specific points which we consider to be expressing all the wings, for a unanimous resolution from the Conference of Presidents on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and for this unanimous resolution to be announced in this House and debated, to hold a serious debate in this direction. Unfortunately, I do not see any good reactions from the parties. And yes, to do so on other issues, such as the intergroup we have asked for the protection of first residence. There you say, okay, we have a different spirit and interests of micro-party or other. But what about this? The parties tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents must be clearly placed on our proposal. We will not leave to the unavoidable any party that will not only contribute to dealing with this risk, but to how Greece will go forward, escaping from the millstones of confrontation. What we see in Evros these days is not over. It is the rehearsal, in our view. It's a rehearsal. If we stay on how we have border guards and armed forces to deal with this, we lose. Because Turkey's strategy is precisely to turn our interest there, to the islands too. What about the agreement between Turkey and Libya? It's forgotten. I didn't hear anything from anyone. "Run" dates and are consolidated. Actions are based on the national strategy. Its structure is therefore also the object of the Council of Political Heads. An issue that can be directly energised on the part of the European Union and related to the agricultural sector concerns the favourable customs regime that Turkey enjoys in relation to the export of industrial and standardised agricultural products, duty-free, to the countries of the European Union. While enjoying this favourable regime and strengthening its economy on that ground, it does not seem to be honouring or appraising this agreement at the same time. Instead, it also violates the one it signed the previous period with the European Union to deal with immigration - refugee. We must raise this issue. There must be a lifting of the customs union for as long as Turkey is not conducting good neighbourly conditions and according to what it has agreed with the European Union. There must be a freeze, i.e. duty-free exports. And that is a matter, Minister, which you must also recommend to the Ministerial Council and to the Prime Minister, because it concerns both Greek agricultural products and the unequal competition that they receive from this customs union with Turkey. I therefore consider it our duty to do so. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Madam President, to talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Comrade, just two minutes because you've already exceeded your time. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u324	Yes, Madam President. Thank you. We are discussing a statute. We're not discussing a bill. We are discussing a cooperative statute. That's it. Ten years of crisis have shown a great deal of truth, that the agricultural sector, agricultural production can be the vehicle that will not only lead us out of crisis, but will create sustainable development on the basis of the agri-food sector. And, instead of there being an operational plan that will give this impetus and open up new roads to agricultural production, a statute comes to ratify it. But countries with a serious cooperative movement do not even have a cooperative law of this type, a Soviet type. That is why I told you about 'Politbero' beforehand. Alas, if the Minister needs - he says - to approve the statute of an agricultural body. What liberalisation are you talking about, gentlemen of the New Democracy? So let's see what you're saying to the world and what you're doing. The state model of the worst kind is what you're doing. They are basic cooperative principles, law, framework law for cooperatives, operational plan. People are being organized according to what they believe and put in their statutes what they want, in the framework of the law. It is unacceptable that you bring us here today. I have heard with surprise that the central branches of cooperative societies are forbidden because they are, it says, unlike homogeneous trade associations, inter-professional organizations. You're wrong. The economic operator is the central cooperative organisation and combines the business activity and business of all cooperatives or development partnerships across Greece to make economies of scale. Interprofessionalism has another role: advertising, promotion, organization and support. It's a whole different thing. But where does it come from? With great economic interests involved in the private sector. You do the same with the article that you say the individual enters the cooperative. Look, cooperatives and individuals are active in the agricultural sector. Both may work at the same time, in cooperation and in a healthy context. What you're doing is incestuous. There's no transparency, no rules, and it leads to a stagnation. Not incest, gentlemen! Yes to the cooperation of the cooperative and private sector. But he wants an operational plan, which you don't have. It wants a support plan for producer organisations, which you do not have, and this plan will say: remove the obstacles - fiscal, bureaucratic and others - and establish a security climate, so that producers themselves can produce and organise themselves in the way they want and so that they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Practicalis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Evros and Greece accept a peculiar siege, which will be lasting. Greece is currently raising the burden of erroneous immigration policy by the government coming. We accept an asymmetrical threat from a neighbour who defys the principles of national and European law and commits serious collusive crimes. He uses people in need, whom he systematically collected to unleash them as "bombs" against Greece and Europe. The current crisis has highlighted the ability, effectiveness and determination of our country's deterrent forces. We apply the doctrine of deterrence through power. We're keeping the border up. This crisis, at the same time, is an opportunity to diagnose the three signs and redesign regular deterrent and protection. I have repeated many times that migration paths are often identified with warlords. Maybe we'll live a hell of a lot of nightmares. Wine when it's dying is dangerous. We have inherited them correctly from the previous government, and now we are sealing them as we should. We have our European partners next door. Europe, as you saw yesterday in the Castanes, reacts to Evros with a nerve. But our country is transmitting security. In particular, Evros is an ideal destination for investors and as such ensures internal social peace and fairness. What is planned and agreed will be implemented. Minister, on the subject. The draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development puts new, healthy and solid foundations for agricultural cooperatives. The aim is to upgrade them to modern, competitive and profitable businesses. Appropriate conditions are created to coordinate cooperatives with the modern competitive environment and the global market. The government remains faithful to its election commitments and is carefully bent on the primary sector in order to make it the engine of economic development. Appropriate legal tools are provided to enable existing cooperatives to expand their commercial activity and hence their profitability. At the same time, it paves the way for the establishment of new cooperatives, strengthening the government's constant pursuit of strengthening the association. It fully corrects the bad texts of the past, which led agricultural cooperatives to an economic stagnation. It is noted that of about six thousand agricultural cooperatives registered, only eight hundred are in operation, of which only about one fifth are considered viable. The aim of this draft law is for agricultural cooperatives to focus on the agricultural process, addressing the pathogens prevailing in the organisation and structure of the cooperative movement in the country. In particular, a framework is established which will provide cooperatives with flexibility both in the internal organisation and in the business direction, allowing them to adopt mixed organisational characteristics. More freedom is given to producers to regulate the Charter of the Functioning of each union. They are provided with tools to respond to the pressures of major trading companies and competition. It responds to the constant request made by the cooperative farmers to set up a national coordination organisation. Important tax incentives are also given. The surpluses of agricultural cooperatives will not be taxed, while profits distributed to members will be taxed as dividends, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable tax legislation. At the same time, the possibility of taking part in the agricultural cooperatives of members - investors with the right to vote, which will not exceed 35% of the total vote. The possibility of providing agricultural cooperatives or third parties with legal persons and financing shall be ensured. This is a form of credit up to EUR 25 000 in total for each partner. The process of establishing an agricultural cooperative is also simplified. This leads to speeding up the process by limiting the burden of the courts and reducing the costs for the cooperatives. Provision is made for the possibility of setting up a special reserve and other measures which are beneficial. Mr Minister, I was pleased to hear your recent speech at the Greek full-scale conference on cotton in Larissa. We're watching you. You stressed that cotton is a serious product and you will give added value by certifying it. We welcome this decision. You said that in these practices cotton producers would achieve high prices, but fair, for their production. In this process is Evros, but also all Thrace, because, as you know, it is a cotton-producing area. The protection of agricultural incomes against disasters you said it was your priority. We'll say good-bye. Thank you for the good will that you have shown you to solve major problems of the past and especially of your predecessor here, who sits in the first chairs, who turned his back to Evros and despised them. It did not solve them problems and at the same time put them in an unacceptable process, including underground and unacceptable routes and agreements. Thank you again and I am sure that you will activate the appropriate financial instruments, even what is left of you, and you will give double joy now to the hopeful environment that exists - warfare, and hopeful - in Evros, because for the first time he is beating Greek government after five years in the problems of these people, who are truly critical. Evros is a pillar, for that is where the heart of the parable Greeks is beating, there is the shield of the nation and state, and there is the signature of the state. You realize, if they swallow the border, what nightmareic scenarios this place and this people could live.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u327	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u328	I'm closing, Madam President. We are therefore confident that you will be re-examined with the bravery that the universal demand of my region and Rhodope is to you and I am sure you will do so, because you have this and we recognize it in the best way possible. I too am voting in favour of the draft law, because it really has a perspective, it is visionary and it gives a solution to our problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much for your attention. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to address the Greek Parliament's Step...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Colleague, you've already been to nine minutes. You are all going beyond your time without actually talking to the bill above. Please very much. If we go with this process, we'll never finish. There are thirty more Members to speak. It can't be done. Your minutes are seven and we've already been to nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u332	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u333	Not half, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u334	I invite you, Madam President, and you and all the members of the Greek Parliament, whenever possible, to come to you at this time when this extreme region is being tested to see how difficult it is. I think you will be more productive, more efficient and through this process, national immigration policy can also be defined, which is the major. Thank you very much for your attention and your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u335	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you for one thing. Because we're talking about a specific bill today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u336	Madam President, may I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u337	Allow me, Mr Colleague. You can wait half a second. So I say that today we are discussing a specific bill and the subject you are talking about is very serious. But when you spend all the time talking about a subject that is not today and then ask for another time to talk about the bill, I think we will never end today. We should therefore ask - and Mr Kegeroglu did well before and mentioned it - for a special debate and for a debate to be held hours endless here. But today we'll talk about this bill. Mr. Arachovite, do you have anything personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u338	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u339	Tell me what staff he referred to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u340	Give me the floor to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u341	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u342	As former Minister, my colleague said I deceived the farmers of Evros. And I want to tell him in 30 seconds...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u343	This is a political expression. Allow me. He has every right to say it from this Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u344	He referred personally to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u345	When you're given the word, you'll get the word and you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u346	I think this is personal, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u347	There won't be a vacation all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u348	We have to explain that for my colleague's micro-political purposes... Producers know what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u349	You're very welcome. I have been following the debate since the morning and there has been a constant interruption in this process. No, it's not personal. He talked in general. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u350	Madam President, what you are doing is not right. For thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u351	No, I'm not giving you the floor. It's not personal as it was placed. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u352	What you're doing isn't right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u353	No, it's not like that. You know that very well. You know this very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u354	He said I deceived Evros' producers. Isn't that personal? What is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u355	Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are called on to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on agricultural cooperatives. But, Madam President, from this step forward to expressing my warmest congratulations to the Armed Forces, to the Security Body, to all volunteers, to the voluntary organisations, to the various associations, to the various bodies, to local authorities, to the inhabitants of Thrace, and above all to the inhabitants of Evros, who have been proud to send us in every direction a clear message that, with the borders of Greece, with Europe's borders, we cannot play much more than we can play Erdogan's tactics. All Greek citizens, the whole of Europe saw the clear determination of the Mitsotakis Government, they saw the reflexes of the Mitsotakis Government, the Government of the New Democracy, a government that implements what he said every day before the elections on 7 July. We have seen with enthusiasm, we have seen with national pride the Greek Prime Minister bring to Greece the leading institutional actors in Europe for the first time, to actually internationalize the immigration problem, to ensure funds to resolve this issue, but also to defend the territorial integrity of our country. But it is not the time for political krone or for us to resolve any party differences on this issue, but it is the moment for national unity, for national determination. To those who want to play with the future of Greece, with the future of our children, we close the door and tell them that we have national unity as our priority. Prime Minister Mitsotakis doesn't chew his words. It intellects what it promised the Greek people with acts, not words. It is a society of the problems that we face leading European leaders, such as President McCrone, Chancellor Merkel, but also the President of the United States Donald Trump. One thing is certain: our country is a key pillar of stability in the wider region and has a government that is decisive and useful to the Greek people. It has a government that in the last seven months has gone through bills that substantially change the country's landscape, bills such as today, which encourage Greek agricultural cooperatives to promote exports, to extrovert, to ensure the sustainability of agricultural cooperatives. Through forty articles, we lay the foundations for agricultural cooperatives, which allow them to cooperate with the local authorities of the first and second grades, with public benefit organizations, with cooperative organisations from other countries, but also with natural and legal persons. The bill promotes agricultural partnerships, which agricultural cooperatives can be set up in any sector of the rural economy. And let me say, Minister, in reply to Mr Kegeroglou of the Change Movement, that these partnerships operate in the form of an anonymous company or an EPE or an EPE. So in terms of turning back decades, as Mr Kegeroglu said, we respond that we are creating the conditions for modern agricultural cooperatives, for modern agricultural partnerships. In short, this bill redefines the function of agricultural cooperatives, because a specific framework is provided for, even for women's cooperatives, while at the same time clarifying the role of the State and the general state supervision, which is made clear in Article 21, by specific services and in a specific way, by the services of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It clears the landscape, too, and upgrades, at last, the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives, which will help decisively and substantially agricultural production, but also the overall picture that we need to have and have. This draft law incorporates the obligations of agricultural cooperatives and the observance of the procedures and Article 24 creates the obligation to check by a auditor. Agricultural cooperatives finally acquire an action and development programme and determine how their profits are taxed, not the surpluses, which are not taxed, as are the members' contributions to agricultural cooperatives. The possibility of integrating agricultural cooperatives into development laws is allowed and, of course, the relevant ministers can in any case set specific incentives for the development of Greek agricultural cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to Stepma to speak of a bill from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, many people have asked me what a Member of the Second Athens Parliament, the Lekadian of Attica, has to do with agricultural cooperatives. The answer is simple: rural development must concern us all. Rural development will make a decisive contribution to the improvement of the Greek economy, to the creation of new jobs, to the guarantee of tax revenue, to the development of the wider region and, above all, to these critical hours, will keep the Greek flag high once again. And to remember the words of a professor of mine from the Supreme Commercial - ASOE - and former Minister of State, George Dear: "The development of the rural economy will significantly improve the competitiveness of Greek products, which will have a very positive effect on the Greek economy." Therefore, when you talk about a bill concerning agricultural cooperatives, you actually talk about the future of the Greek economy. Minister, let me start by congratulating you and your staff, because through forty juicy articles you are giving an opportunity to the rural cooperatives, who have actually seen them take the declining course. You give an opportunity, as this government gives opportunities. Today we are also being asked to vote on specific amendments which solve problems, such as the granting of real estate use, which is being extended for another growing period until 31-10-2020. But a solution is given for the responsibilities of the administrations of the Greek cooperative organisations, a regulation which at the same time speeds up the procedures for the clearance of agricultural cooperatives, which will result in the liquidation of property and, of course, the repayment of their debts to the public and the insurance funds. We are also giving solutions to criminal and civil prosecutions against members of agricultural cooperative administrations. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the country has the happy occasion to have a reformist government which legislates with a view to developing the national economy. As long as some Cassandras are pushing to condemn the effectiveness of this government, the answer is one: Greece will progress with optimism for our future, because Greece has a government that listens to society, does not plunder, does not give up and sets solid foundations for the strong Greece of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u357	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Lippe has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the major one. I would like to express my full support for our locusts, Evros and our islands, the army, the police, the border guards, the porters who effectively guard our borders against the asymmetrical threat, as has been said, from the neighbouring country, which works for miserable people, migrants and refugees, as we all know. I would also like to express my support for the actions and policy of the government, the policy of good guarding the borders, the promotion and internationalisation of the problem and of course its emergence into a leading European problem. As far as the bill is concerned, Minister, it is very important, because the primary sector was and remains extremely important for the Greek economy and is of course a priority for our Government. The primary sector's problem is mainly the size of lots and farms, which make them uncompetitive internationally. A suitable solution for the creation of economies of scale is, of course, the partnerships and cooperation of farmers through agricultural cooperatives. In addition, despite the fact that the primary sector has low productivity and little penetration into foreign markets, it has proved highly resilient in the economic crisis. This bill attempts to reorganise and relaunch cooperatives by simplifying procedures and resolving chronic problems, which led to the institution's depreciation and existing cooperatives in marbles. This bill is a framework law that sets out the basic principles for the operation of cooperatives, but it for the first time gives agricultural cooperatives the flexibility to define themselves, through their statutes, the internal organisation that they want, contrary to the past, which the law only placed bureaucratic obstacles. Agricultural cooperatives are legal persons under private law and have a commercial status. Generally speaking, the reduction in ten members of the minimum number needed to establish a cooperative can only be judged positively, because it encourages the creation and maintenance of even small cooperatives, even with fewer members in special circumstances, special products or women's cooperatives. One of the main areas of the bill is that the possibility of participating in cooperatives and members of investors on specific terms, laid down in the statutes. Investors participate in the general assembly with the right to vote, but do not exceed 35% of the total number of votes, in order not to alter the nature of the cooperative as agricultural. To some extent I understand the concerns of those who react to the introduction of the member - investor. So far, we have become accustomed to agricultural cooperatives being exclusively agricultural associations. However, this model is given that it did not succeed and, in any case, cannot be implemented successfully in the future. In addition, it does not oblige a cooperative to accept an investor who holds 35% of the shares. Those who are willing to open their cooperatives in new prospects and opportunities will have the opportunity to do so in any way they choose. Even a small percentage to investors initially, until they see in practice how the new system works. Change is not always easy, but sometimes - like the one we are discussing - it is absolutely necessary. The main feature of this bill is the limitation of the state's role in the operation of cooperatives, as to date the strong state supervision that had made it difficult to process through the well-known bureaucratic procedures. An annual management audit shall be established by an auditor or an audit firm, and the supervisory authority may also request an extraordinary audit. The transparency of the economics of agricultural cooperatives shall be strengthened, with the obligation to publish the data and the decisions adopted on the cooperative's website. With regard to cooperatives' finances, it is envisaged that a special reserve may be created from surpluses or profits. The surpluses are not taxed, profits are taxed. Any goodwill resulting from the valuation of assets in the transformation of the cooperative is exempt from any tax. In addition, the tax exemptions introduced for members' contributions are also important. Agricultural cooperatives can be incorporated into development laws, and further incentives can be laid down for their merger and development. Very important is the deadline, Minister, until 28 February 2021 for the completion of the liquidation of pending cases before 1 January 2013, as well as for the suspension of criminal and administrative responsibilities for five years in cooperative administrations in liquidation, bankruptcy or resolution. Finally, there is the establishment of the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives, whose creation is in agreement with the representatives of farmers, as it will be the coordination of agricultural cooperatives. Contrary to the opposition, the bill strengthens the cooperative movement by giving greater freedom of choice to cooperatives and their members. In closing, I would like to make a little reference to Magnesia, which is a time-consuming leader in the cooperative movement. One of the first cooperatives in modern Greece is the Agricultural Cooperative of Almyros, founded a hundred and twenty years ago. Even today the cooperative movement, with twenty-one active cooperative, is particularly dynamic, of which three are women's. To conclude, I would say that today's bill sets out the framework for the development of agricultural cooperatives in healthy, profitable and efficient associations, which will give new impetus to the primary sector and will make a significant contribution to the country's development prospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the "Roskillde Cathedral School" of Denmark. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr. Logiadis has the floor from Mera25. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill for cooperatives is essentially a Greek originality, a Greek patent. It's neither a cooperative nor an anonymous company. It does not respond to the cooperative spirit, as the Director of the International Cooperative Alliance, the 'ICA', which was founded in 1895 and is the largest non-governmental organisation in the world for the cooperative. The Greek cooperative bill, the president told us, calls us "cooperatives" which is not a co-operative according to international data and standards. I wonder, Minister, why you called the 'ICA' committee when it has a diverse view of your bill and when we do not take it into account at all. ‘ICA’ stresses that the nature of agricultural cooperatives must be maintained and not become capital companies, i.e. privatised from the back door, allowing private investors to participate up to 35% of their capital. If the capital from external sources becomes the main source of financing for the cooperatives, the members of the cooperative risk losing control of the cooperatives from these private investors. The bill and this provision do not create any conditions and conditions of confidence in order to co-operate and co-operate with the producers. Cooperative capital is essentially philosophical, thus incompatible with investors' capital. The key point in the cooperatives is cooperation, but in Greece we have not learned from our education or from our society the deepest concept of cooperation, and so we believe that this bill will not actually have a positive effect on our farmers. The state has led farmers over time to say and urge their children to "learn, my child, letters, not to become a farmer like me". Another problem for cooperatives is the many co-legislative ministries, on the basis of your bill, which creates strangles, timelag, pluralism, bureaucracy and usually corruption and depreciation of cooperatives and their operation, but also as an idea. When this real idea of the cooperative is discredited, it is purchased by individuals, to whom the bill gives rise, and this creates a contractual agriculture and control by both farmers and the market, by a few. The Agricultural Bank, a pioneering institution at the time of its establishment as a state bank, was made to support the farmer with knowledge and capital. But, over time, all the previous governments denounced it and turned it into a bank that gave consumer loans and holidays until it went bankrupt and was finally sold. Cooperative financing sources must be the cooperative members themselves, other cooperatives, other cooperative financial institutions, social bonds and social investors -'social investors' - and third commercial lenders and financial markets. But that requires knowledge. The bill further does not answer basic questions, such as how we will convince young farmers to enter cooperatives, what incentives we give them, how we will train young farmers and older people at age, because it does not mention anything specific and essential for cooperative education. It does not encourage hotels or cooperatives to cooperate and to show the value of Greek products and foods. It does not motivate them to develop green, for example, for waste recycling and green transport. You know, Minister, we are importing too many alcoholic beverages from abroad. It could very easily be Greek distillates - the racque, say, in Crete, where I am, but more - being a basis for cocktails and Greek drinks in hotels and everywhere. I must mention here, and in the general context of agricultural policy, the common agricultural policy, which is essentially subsidizing areas and not quality products. The land, as we know, is small in Greece. Greece is a mountainous, Polynesian island, with many remote islands in the country. In 2018, in Heraklion, where I am, the agricultural income was 64 million euros. Of these, 59m euros were subsidies and 5m euros were actual production. So what production are we talking about and what cooperatives? We produce subsidies and not products. That is what the common agricultural policy has led us to do. Indeed, we must stress that the new common agricultural policy is going to reduce resources to agriculture. The cooperative bill also says nothing about which national strategy, which national policy we want to pursue in Greece in the agricultural sector. In Israel they are self-sufficient in many agricultural products. Is that us? Some of the fair demands we support as PART25 for farmers are the prices of agricultural products that cover production costs, meet quality products and ensure a decent livelihood for farmers and reduce production costs. To lift immediately the unacceptable government decision, which effectively excludes thousands of small vineyard growers from the production of chicory and leads to the eruption. The issue of tsipouro and raki, if it is too taxed, will result in many villages falling apart, because the world, the farmers, will not go to the cafes, when the Greek distillery is very precise, the raccoons. Also, to pay back directly the producers who lost the embargo with Russia agricultural products. Minister, Greece will never be able to compete with third countries such as Egypt, Turkey, China, Iraq. The farmer asks for fair, fair and sustainable prices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. We should also emphasise the issue of solidarity with Europe, as Europe must stand alongside us, not only in the immigration problem that we are facing today, not only in the defence, not only in the economics, but also in products. 'Union' means consuming European products first both in the agricultural sector and in tourism and then importing from third countries cheap products. So we need to shape our own national policy within the European Union. The position of Merra25 is, of course, to support the proper functioning of cooperatives and to ensure that there is a verticalization of the agricultural product from sowing to distribution to retailers, so that farmers themselves can bypass the wholesalers and actually see the goodwill of their own hardship. This requires education, training, training at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I find it perfectly normal that the latest developments on our borders and on the islands are overshadowing the debate on agricultural cooperatives and I think that there are quite a lot of my fellow Members choosing to remove parties on their position in order to give their views on the latest tragic events. So you will allow me, too, to share some thoughts with you. Yesterday, the President of the European Parliament, Charles Michelle, flew with the Prime Minister over Evros. He told us that what we are doing is very important for Europe, he told us that he expects Turkey to implement the agreement with Europe, he said he trusted us, thanked us and left. The president of the Ursula von der Lyen was on the same flight. He said that the borders are both Greece and Europe, he also thanked us, promised us both EUR 700 million and left too. So on the substance of the matter, Mr Voridis, they have been emphatically and diplomatically confirmed in their attitude that the management of the refugee - immigration issue, with Greece on the front line lifting the greatest weight in relation to its capabilities, is Europe's greatest moral and political fiasco. I will no doubt say yesterday's flights of high-ranking European officials had a strong symbolism in favour of Greece. The reality, however, Minister, and the international and Greek authorities, are in the immediate future making the transition from symbolisation measures to fundamental measures. And I come to a conclusion: Despite the toxic forms that the public dialogue often takes, thankfully, I say, a common place arises between all the political forces: Greece obviously has every legitimate right to protect its sovereign rights and defend its national interests, to guard its borders, as it has always done, while respecting international law. So, what tragicly happens at the border in Evros and on our islands is a huge international and European political issue and as such must be addressed. So when, Minister, the whole of counter-population, despite the individual differences, gives the government the scope for understanding and the national line, the question that arises is a very simple one: why does the government not assert forcefully, even with a conflict at the summit, and the threat of sanctions to Turkey, but also the agreement on refugee from the countries of the European Union finally being respected? These are substantive measures. And one more question: Or is the case, Minister, what the Prime Minister says is that people who are conspiring at the border are beaten and worked by Erdogan, in order to put pressure on Greece and Europe and we accept 700 million to make scenes, equipment and blankets, or what Mr Georgiadis says, your Vice-President, is invaders, for jihadists, who come to conquer us and destroy our three-year-old culture. Both things can't apply at the same time. I therefore think, Mr Voridis, that you should respond responsibly to this national issue, rather than beating a announcement from the Youth of SYRIZA, doing all day long specs with this thing. Unless the many deadlocks in the management of the refugee - immigration problem impose on some, Mr Vorides, within the government the search for both'safe' enemies and as'safe' wars. Speaking, ladies and gentlemen, for deadlocks, let us also come to the bill on agricultural cooperatives. This bill does not introduce sectors and fails to respond to the real problems of the small and diverse cooperative sector, with cooperative farmers having difficulty touching 5% on the European Union average, which reaches 40%. So at a time when farmers' and farmers' incomes are falling, where sales prices in a range of agricultural products are moving very low and producers are prey to big companies, the government brings a bill that totally affects cooperatives' problems and an unwitting retourism in regulations that are mostly about procedural and statuteal issues. It has no logic of modernization and no developmental direction. I don't understand what the targeting is. Is this about old cooperatives? It does not say anything about those who have the property under inertia, resolution, liquidation or bankruptcy, but at the same time it is not about healthy cooperatives, which do not have any financing and development problems. But the political philosophy of the government also applies to the cooperatives once again: the introduction of unconditionally private individuals is a panacea for all pathogens. Thus, the members of investors enter cooperatives with up to 35% and have the right to participate and vote in the administrative bodies and special privileges. Unlike the members - cooperatives, the investors do not have the obligation to trade with the cooperative, while the value of their share is not given, as is the case for the cooperatives, but may be different by decision of the general meeting. With Article 9 - again unlike the cooperatives - the investors can participate with more than one mandatory share and with one vote for each compulsory share they hold, with the 35% cap, thus allowing multiple votes. It is obvious that two speed cooperatives are being created and basic cooperative principles are being abolished, such as the equivalence and maintenance of democratic control of the cooperative. In very simple terms, Mr Voridis, you are forming the ground so that individuals can say opt in to exploit the value of the property and the brand of the cooperative and have a significant say in the decisions, but opt out of their obligations, with an enhanced role in the decisions of the cooperative. The investor member will be able to dictate profit-based decisions, as it is of course, and has always been able, by means of the use of the open door, to withdraw or threaten to withdraw from the cooperative, by putting survival and legal function at risk. As has already been said several times and also in committees at the hearing of bodies, this model has already been tested in other European countries without success. I do not want to jeopardise, as he did yesterday, that we should not make a colleague from New Democracy, but I think, Mr Minister, that it is at least utopian, ignoring European and international experience, to expect that this model will exceptionally be effective in Greece, where the cooperative sector is fragmented. In my opinion, therefore, the Government is attempting a legal experiment, creating a legal form and a specific hybrid of a capitalising company with a cloaked cooperative, dependent on and exposed to uncontrolled private commercial interests, with what this entails for producers. Let me note that so far no one has prevented a cooperative and an investor from setting up an anonymous company. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Madam President. The government therefore fails to conceive or quite simply ignore the notion of cooperatives and cooperatives. The cooperative has its own special features, has undistributed assets and locked reserves, which must not be fruited with by the last members. Therefore, the possibility of distribution of profits and property is very clearly incompatible with the legal identity of the cooperative. Cooperatives are a group of people and not a group of funds. For the first time, therefore, a cooperative law in our country provides for supplementary and proportional application of rules on public limited companies, when the provisions of the Civil and Commercial Code were applied respectively. So this bill does not actually provide financial incentives and tools to farmers to co-operate and create product specifications and there is no strategic planning for the real problems, such as production, disposal, increasing producers' negotiating power to achieve greater income and their cooperation with buyers and processors of agricultural products. Minister, you should take into account that, in view of the decline in aid for primary production under the new common agricultural policy, in conjunction with the new multiannual financial framework, we have expected something other than a bill, which would alternatively have a title: 'Opening and waiting for you: Cooperatives at an opportunity'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u363	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Vassiliadis has the floor from New Democracy and immediately after Mr Avramakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, may I first of all refer to the very important events that have taken place in Evros in the last few days. Government initiatives to tackle this crisis are based on comprehensive planning and cover a wide range of operational and diplomatic actions. The Prime Minister brought the leaderships of the European institutions to Greece and opened them up to now stubbornly closed eyes on the refugee - immigration issue. We expect European solidarity to be expressed in practice. Our thoughts at this difficult time are in the personnel of the Security and Armed Forces who are in the front line. I come to the draft law under discussion. This is a vital issue for the functioning and development of the primary sector in our country. The agricultural sector traditionally was the backbone of the Greek economy with emphasis on production. The crisis has shown the weaknesses of Greek agriculture and in particular the failure to develop methods and technology to increase the quality and quantity of production. Even today the agricultural sector remains particularly vulnerable to phenomena which, unfortunately, the farmer cannot influence, such as climate change and the extreme weather phenomena that this causes increasingly, or the interruption of access to the world's markets due to geopolitical developments and economic sanctions. At the same time, the globalisation and the competition that this creates in conjunction with the ever-increasing demand for the markets, which are constantly growing, exert unbearable pressure on the Greek producer and especially on the small grower. So what the 2020 farmer needs is freedom and freedom comes through the available options. That is exactly what brings today's bill, ladies and gentlemen. He's bringing options. Agricultural cooperatives, in the way they operate after we have voted for this draft law, will allow the Greek farmer, if he wishes, to move to a modern businessman, not to take over all the weight, but as a collective economic unit with a controlled risk, easy financing, and with the possibility of private investors being involved. Let's see exactly what it says. Initially, it simplifies the establishment of new agricultural cooperatives. The approval is now coming from the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and not from a judiciary, which reduces the cost and waiting for the members of the association, and at the same time causes the court to disintegrate. The minimum number of persons shall be reduced to ten out of twenty, and may also be set up with fewer persons, provided that the special conditions laid down in Article 4 exist. The tax status of cooperatives is redefined. The surpluses are no longer taxed and the distributed profits are taxed as dividends. The farmer is treated as an entrepreneur, justly. Access to financing shall be facilitated, by the possibility of providing agricultural cooperatives or by means of third parties legal microfinancers in the form of credits and by the possibility of substantially more participation by private investors with the right to vote in a minority. I say 'essential', as, although the investor was provided for in the applicable law, in practice this model did not work. The Minister mentioned it in his place yesterday. This draft law reflects the New Democracy's philosophy regarding the primary sector. A number of legislative interventions have already been carried out in a positive direction, such as the reduction of the tax on farmers and the provision of a special scheme for insurance contributions, and there is still enough to be done specifically in terms of reducing the cost of production. We do not want state-of-the-art farmers. The legal framework governing agricultural cooperatives was necessary to regulate. In Pella in particular, a particularly rural place, many cooperatives are in a process of liquidation. This bill will clarify the landscape with a direct positive impact. The State must create those conditions so that the Greek farmer can develop, evolve and thus prosper, create a safety net, coordinate and supervise the production process. In this context, the draft law provides for the establishment of the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives. Finally, Madam President, let me refer to the ministerial amendments tabled. They all move in the right direction. I know the suspension of prosecutions against the administrations of agricultural cooperative organisations and the very important question of how to recruit staff in the improvement agencies. So, ladies and gentlemen, I support the draft law under discussion and I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in reply to some of the previous majority MPs, I would like to say the following: firstly, because you said that you did not give a damn about it, I will say that you are the personalisation and champions of the fucking ball. In reply to Mr. Skreka, who spoke about make news, I will say that Maximo's "montazier" works well, your "truth group is working well, so you are the last person to talk about make news and falsification of events. Just yesterday, we had a story falsifying about Idomeni that you presented as a report from Evros, along with many others. Mr. Voridis, with you across the street, I will tell you that you are truly politically greedy. I am referring to a television confrontation you had with Mr. Bored when you said that 'we never said, we did not talk about decongestion of islands'. That is exactly how you said, in contrast to the statement by the Prime Minister in the election, which said that "our priority is the decongestion of the islands". In fact, I am telling you why you have said so, you have said that you cannot tell us politically, so that you do not call us politically. So you understand the inconsistency of words and actions. As regards the management of refugee and immigration, Mr Voridis, your Government has proved to be and ineffective and below the circumstances. Its handling over the entire seven months I can say that they were from irresponsible to tragic and dangerous. The last "spirit" in this whole part was the ones that happened, the comedian that happened on the islands, with civil war situations, which brought the locals in a very difficult position, but also the Security Body that was there. Today you are trying to refresh what is happening in Evros. We'll be there, too. Do not forget that you have received our islands and Moria with five thousand and today there is a suffocating situation of twenty-five thousand and that is the result of your own policy, no matter what you charge to us. You said then that Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA are the ones who bring refugees. They said many of your officials then publicly that they believe and trust Erdogan more than Tsipras. Mrs. Bakoyannis was saying with a veil that she does not feel threatened and threatened by Mr. Erdogan. Do you still believe in what you were saying? If not, tell us. Refugee is a Euro-Turkish issue and not a Greek-Turkish issue. You must immediately move on to the internationalisation of the problem, to take the necessary steps to convene the Council of Political Heads of State for a common position and attitude in dealing with the crisis directly in Evros or where it emerges and is understood that you must call for the immediate convening of a summit on Turkey's condemnation of the declaration of agreement with the European Union - and this will be done with the imposition of sanctions in Turkey - and also to ask as a state and as a state the possibility of a fair distribution of refugees - migrants throughout Europe. We have said that the borders must be guaranteed. Greece, and if it wanted to, cannot raise the burden of the refugee - migration flow alone. It's beyond our powers. We're clear in our place. The presence of the institutions yesterday with Mr Mitsotakis was used more communication. We have seen her results. Not even a statement of condemnation on the part of the Prime Minister. On the contrary, we have made general and vague promises to strengthen FRONTEX and to provide financial support for the EUR seven hundred million in the management of the refugee crisis. Is that what we're asking for right now? We are asking for decisions to be taken in the direction of equal distribution of refugees throughout the country. As far as the border is concerned, Mr Voridis, the border was always kept in Evros. They are guarded by the Army, which guarantees national security, territorial integrity and borders of the country. So any insinuation you've been making in this matter, lets it be understood that the border has not been guarded so long. This is questionable to the Greek military forces, to the Security Body and not to us, to the opposition. Of course, everyone who is upstairs has our help and we are with them in the direction of preventing this difficult situation. We are clearing our position so that there are no impressions in the Chamber. As far as the bill is concerned, what we have to say is that one and only is its aim, and that is the abundance of the cooperatives by private individuals who have the cloak of the private investor. In fact, agricultural cooperatives are being led to private hands. In fact, in the preliminary draft, private investors of up to 25% were allowed to enter and we saw in plenary and in the final version of the bill that they were finally touching 35%. The entry of private investors into the capital of agricultural cooperatives - and indeed with the right to vote in administrative bodies - is scandalously favouring all those who want to pass on the assets of cooperatives with very little money to natural persons. This provision met with the universal denial of the bodies involved in the consultation, except for a cooperative association. Despite the Minister's claim that such an entry of private investors will solve the problem of the liquidity of the financing and development of cooperatives, no one was convinced of this, which is probably a summer night dream. It is characteristic that the guest of the committee, the Director General of the International Cooperative Alliance, whose members exceed one billion of the two hundred million cooperatives, stated: "Where such a regulation has been implemented, it has failed." So, after this enormous failure of the most important, according to the Minister, a provision coupled with the poor reversal of certain articles in the previous law, it is concluded that this bill will not only offer cooperatives nothing, on the contrary will put them into the suffering of unwitting changes in their statutes and difficulties in its implementation. The government of SYRIZA voted for L.4384/2016 and when it voted for him, it did not have the illusion that it would increase cooperatives in the country. The aim was to clear up the landscape of the active cooperatives. It found a virtual reality of about six and a half thousand cooperatives - most seals - with seventy-five thousand farmers, with accumulated problems and debts. Today healthy cooperatives amount to eight hundred eighty - eighty - eighty - and the total number of their members in about forty - thousand, although not all active members. What is imperative today is that their efforts should be continued in order to restore farmers' confidence in their cooperatives. Secondly, to tackle their overcompensation over time and, thirdly, to give additional incentives to the integration of farmers into cooperatives. It is true that the provisions of a bill alone are not capable of contributing to the reconstruction and business development of cooperatives. Of course, the cooperatives highlight people and, in particular, the trained and cooperative culture farmers, who can function in the logic and requirements of cooperatives. But neither does the bill make you, to me. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, we say, closing down - so I don't eat time - what kind of cooperatives do we want? Do we want co-operatives of large or small, fragmented ones, which will primarily ask for access to national and European programmes for their survival? The previous law was clearly targeted. Only the real cooperatives that have a necessary economic size and operate in democratic processes and have a high sense of cooperation and solidarity, can they provide financial service together with incentives of life and dignity to those who are part of them. Therefore, the main pillar of the bill should be the establishment, as it is, of the Electronic Cooperatives Register, which can function as a tool for recording, checking and evaluating them, so that we currently draw useful data for the purely cooperatives. Secondly, we proceeded with our own bill to abolish the bankrupt institution of associations and the derelict PASPEGES, thus enabling the cell of cooperation to develop. The cooperative farmers for the first time became directly involved with their financial organizations, without reference to the old regime. Finally, we proceeded with the democratic tradition of the association of the production of the members, because this is a necessary and self-evident process, which is provided for in the provision, and which must be done to ensure that cooperatives function properly. In conclusion, I would say that it is obvious once again that the government is moving in the opposite direction to solving the problems of primary production. Unfortunately, it is clear that there is not only any plan for the development of agricultural production and livestock, but also there is no knowledge of the problems faced by these productive forces. No, you just don't know the problems, but you don't care to know them and solve them. As is the new CAP, the same will be done in every other area that comes up in the process. The disappointment you are causing in the rural world to know that it will not be anonymous, it will have a name and you will be charged with it. I call on all democratic and progressive citizens of this area to co-operate with SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Alexis Tsipras, in the direction of defeating the neoliberalism of Mr Mitsotakis and the neo-rubanism of the internal troika of the government, of the others. Georgiadis, Borides and Plearis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Leonardis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u368	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this critical juncture that the Armed Forces, the Greek Police, the Fire Service, the Port Authority, the volunteers and critics in Evros and the islands give us a titanic struggle at the front line with self-determination - in order to protect our borders from the asymmetrical threat that we accept from Turkey, which uses immigrants - we must all show here in this Parliament a spirit of national unity and solidarity, in order to give the message of unity of the Greek people against any one of our sovereign rights and our security. We must thank all and all men and women, who stand there, at the border, at the height of circumstances and are a fist. We're all next door to them. The national conflict in the last few days is unprecedented. The Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the leadership of the European Union that was on the ground at our borders not only symbolically but also essentially, sent the message that the Greek border is European and the practical solidarity is a duty and obligation of our partners. Everything that is taking place at our borders is not just a national issue but a first-rate European issue, which needs to be addressed immediately and decisively. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today proposing the adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food with regard to agricultural cooperatives and other provisions, with the aim of making the primary sector unfold its enormous productive potential through innovative actions. It is a fact that agricultural cooperatives as a whole have been in a deep institutional and economic crisis for many years. The data for cooperatives are disappointing. Of the existing four thousand five hundred two rural cooperatives, two thousand eighty-eighty are inactive, one hundred twelve are in the process of resolving and clearing, while in operation there are only eight hundred nineteen. Mismanagement, opacity, lack of initiative, problems of funding have led to bankruptcy and inaction. Having the experience of operating these years, each farmer brings together the sinful past, corruption, the bad mentality developed. The active members of rural cooperatives have lost their trust in the administrations. The deficits and debts drowned their function and the result of all of them was their remuneration. If the mentality does not change, to see each farmer's teamwork as an obligation to operate and as a sum of the components of their activities to become a new beginning, then the results will not be positive. This bill creates the institutional framework for the organisation of agricultural cooperatives in the country and provides their operating tools, as private and autonomous enterprises, which will have access to all business activities that do not affect their agricultural character. At the same time, we are giving the possibility and the right of members to participate - investors, but the rural cooperative is not altered as an institution for the rural economy. It is planned that agricultural cooperatives will be able to provide EUR 25,000 for each member. We are reducing the minimum number of establishments from twenty to ten, and even when the seat of the agricultural cooperative is located in mountain areas or islands with less than three and a half thousand inhabitants, to less than ten members. We recommend women's rural cooperatives with a minimum of five members, with concrete development measures and actions for networking, information, promotion and exchange of know-how and good practices, in order to support women's participation and employment and to strengthen their financial self-sufficiency in agricultural production. The possibility of subjecting agricultural cooperatives to the development laws in question is allowed and provisions establishing tax or other exemptions are maintained. In the other provisions I consider it important to extend abnormal legal acts for five more years until 22 March 2024. Thus, property owners have been allowed to acquire titles for many years. As far as the amendments are concerned, the proper functioning of the IMPs or of the local IMPs is regulated and the possibility of recruiting seasonal staff required by a fixed-term private-law contract is allowed to do so by applying the provisions laid down in each agency's own rules of procedure. Penal and civil prosecutions against members of the administration of agricultural cooperatives and associated collective schemes are suspended for a period of five years, liquidated or declared bankrupt or put into liquidation for debts to the public or also insurance institutions. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I also believe that it is in the logical sense that the amendment on the offsetting of ELGA's insurance contributions with the compensation of farmers from extreme weather phenomena is in line. Because it is not possible for the farmer to pay his contributions to the ELGA when his income is destroyed due to climate change and his county has been declared in an emergency situation and is naturally unable to pay his debts for the current growing season, thereby being punished and not receiving the compensation he is entitled to. Minister, you must see this again. Ladies and gentlemen, we must promote a plan of farmers' cooperation, by giving the tools to develop their activities throughout their turnover, from production, processing and marketing of agricultural products, from cooperation on the purchase of supplies and the reduction of production costs to certification, standardisation and placing on the market of agricultural products operating as groups, with a view to finding new markets in a competitive environment where quality characteristics will add value to their products. It is true that there is a serious problem of lack of confidence in cooperative models that have failed because of mismanagement, mistakes and mismanagement. But the primary sector must look ahead. He is required to play a leading role, learn from past mistakes and contribute to healthy rural cooperatives that will transfer the know-how through modern programs to his members, claim through the new NSRP 2021-2027, measures that will develop his activities and opportunities that will be exploited for their own benefit and the Greek countryside. In all of this, however, there must be modern regional administrations in the service of farmers, OPEKEPE, ELGA, for quick operations and modern and flexible central services of the Ministry with two-way communication. And I believe that this is in our hands and we will improve it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u370	I believe that this bill gives hope to create new healthy cooperatives, to continue - those who have left - on new bases, with new tools, for dynamic rural development, with a new agricultural cooperative conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u371	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, you are far beyond time. There must be a tolerance, but two minutes over time I think it is lacking time from your colleagues. Don't you ever forget that. I'll beg you in seven and a half minutes I'll start ringing the bell and warn you. Mrs Kefalidou has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes, with the relative tolerance of course to you too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u372	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in days and hours critical, without any luxury of social quiet. Our country accepts an organised plan of pressure and provocative blackmail from Turkey, through directed migratory flows at our borders. These hours there is no separation of the Greeks in red, green, blue and orange. Let's figure it out. The Greek people in their overwhelming majority felt it from the first hours of the day, I would tell you by many of us earlier. Not only immediately did he respond and gave the present but actively participated in both patriotism and responsibility. And of course I'm talking about the simple world. Some of them are farmers, they are fishermen, fishermen, who have put aside all their problems, the discontent from government political choices, anger, indignation, and they have offered themselves the tools of their survival to serve their country without second thought. Rather, the instincts of the active citizen are more pronounced in this simple world, which feels the immediate threat and the danger of hostile attack. These are the times when criticism of mistakes, delays, government regressions and ideological concerns of some people is miserable, counterproductive and cease to make sense. First we all win together, to have time and space in our place, so that we can reseparate ourselves into right-wing, centroose, left-wing and confronted, however, in an environment of security. These simple people, the unhappy, our own people, are concerned with this bill dealing with agricultural cooperatives. What happens next to us these hours, let us have it in our minds when we discuss this bill, because it is about the future of those who in the last few days ensure our own quiet sleep. We all agree that the law governing the operation of agricultural cooperatives should serve key objectives, increasing competitiveness, improving productivity, upgrading agricultural infrastructure and, above all, modernising our agricultural production so that it can speak with foreign markets. That is why, Minister, today's effort seems to give rise to a lack of courage in major changes. This was reflected in the comments of the consultation expressing similar concerns, although they come from different persons and institutions. It is a long time to say and we hear that the primary sector is the driving force of the Greek economy and must be supported in every way. But every time, which we repeat, we prove how unprepared the state is to give the primary sector the place it deserves. There are causes. Our place presents particularities, small lots, which often do not take into account, a lack of cooperative education, the suspicions of the farmers themselves, especially the older ones who experienced the nice times of the cows, where the chefs exploited things and situations. Minister, you must decide what you want for the cooperatives and what you decide to say clearly. In this Chamber yesterday and today, fine words have been heard about giving freedom and trust to the partners, of course the government supports. At the same time, you amputate every incentive to involve the farmer, the producer, in the collective effort with multiplier effects. It is assumed that this draft law was drawn up on the basis of the consolidation of cooperatives and with a view to helping them to evolve into healthy competing enterprises that will stand by claims on the free market. At least you say. How are you gonna do that? By introducing private investors into cooperatives and, indeed, by voting to 35%? Is that how you mean modernization and resolution? So you mean the development prospects of cooperatives, with the total alteration of their cooperative character, with the dubious representativeness in the decisions of the collective bodies, with their distorted representation on the boards? Minister, I would not say that this bill is a successful way of reviving rural development. It's probably a whole sense of closing the eye to big traders and investors at the expense of the rural world. Indicative of your intentions and priorities is silence and conceivable for the workers in the cooperatives in liquidation, who have not received any compensation or accrued. Where is the provision of your legislative initiative? Nowhere. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating also has significant changes. Reduction of the minimum number of persons required to establish agricultural cooperatives from twenty to ten and in some cases without arithmetic restriction or simplification of the procedure for establishing agricultural cooperatives. But all this is shaded by Chapter III, where you have provisions introduced for the first time, they have created concerns and reactions to cooperatives and institutions and have to do with the percentage of private participation rather than unfairly. With this provision, the cooperatives are transformed into companies delivered to the private investor and you are making it a general arborgic, and the cooperative is a useful management tool. I have a lot to say, but I will only confine myself to the fact that agricultural cooperatives exist and will continue to exist because they serve a very specific need for them. For decades worldwide there has been a crystallisation of their identity, principles and values that reflect over a hundred years of international experience and practice have been formulated. So this is the fundamental feature, that another cooperative and other capital companies, you come and change it. You have been told so far by too many people. The Director-General of the International Cooperative Alliance himself told you to do so to your institutions. There can be no shape between a cooperative and a capital company. Another one. Otherwise it can't work. I come to something about both the Drama Prefecture and all the mountainous regions. It is the amendment which you have praised and which concerns forest cooperatives. You hid behind the excuse that he's not in your jurisdiction. I would ask you, Minister, to look at the substance and not the procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, then, in the mountainous regions you put a wall upwards so that there would be twenty-one participation, so that they could have forest cooperatives. I would say to you that the same flexibility you are giving to other producer cooperatives and cooperatives and there is a minimum limit of five members, to predict it for forest cooperatives, because we are talking about these fellow citizens who have spoken to you at the beginning of my speech. We are talking about those who today with self - disobedience enable us all to sleep quietly. And you know what? It concerns all mountainous Greece, which has great problems and ingenuity, and does not have young people to be able to take such an activity. So I hope you can think again, please do so and thank you for the time. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u373	Mr Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u374	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the country's agricultural sector faces serious structural and economic problems. The income of farmers and farmers is dramatically reduced. The sale price of many agricultural and livestock products is below production costs and is constantly falling, as is the price of oil and milk. The collapse of prices poses a problem of survival especially for areas of trouble, such as several large areas of my special country of Arcadia, Kynuria and Gortynia. Thus, in this context, individual producers are vulnerable to the pressures of large companies that control retail trade and distribution of products. At the same time, the agricultural sector is considered to be the main vehicle for the recovery of the Greek economy and for the productive reconstruction of the country. Agricultural cooperatives are considered to be the most important means for them. In the past, of course, the project in question has failed for many reasons, resulting in a sense of abhorring farmers towards the 'cooperative'. This bill does not promote support and support policies for agricultural production through the cooperative organisation. On the contrary, the current draft law leads the cooperative movement to regression, without solving the problems that have arisen in recent decades both in crisis and in the pre-crisis period, of refreshment. Nor is the liquidity issue for which the sale of the Agricultural Bank was a decisive blow. Under the pretext of strengthening liquidity, through financing private cooperatives, this bill seeks to pass control of agricultural cooperatives on private commercial companies. The title of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is false. It refers to agricultural cooperatives, but with its arrangements they are transformed into associations of capital, to capital companies. The nature, nature of agricultural cooperatives as associations of persons working together for a common purpose, in social terms, in the promotion of professional, assets and other interests, and through them the strengthening of the rural economy, since this is no longer a question of cooperatives, as I said before, but of capital companies and business centres. The bill violates the principles of autonomy and independence from which a rural cooperative must be governed. It is overlooked that agricultural cooperatives are an autonomous and independent association of individuals, which is voluntarily formed on the basis of the principles of self-government, self-responsibility, solidarity, equality and equality, in order to meet the needs of its members and do not constitute an economic structure, such as capital companies. By establishing the possibility of entering private "investors" into cooperatives with 35% and combining this critical rate with the different value of the cooperative share and abolishing the "one vote, a cooperative share" principle for the benefit of the private members, there are minimum cooperatives that are bound to the chariot of some market investors. The bill aims to private individuals with 1/10 of the value of the cooperative and with more votes to ensure full control of the agricultural cooperative. All the other parametric arrangements of the bill come to this. The two terms of office of the president of the agricultural cooperative and the most proportionate way of electing the administrations are abolished, with the risk of reintroducing a morbid phenomena of the past being visible. This prevents the renewal of the potential of agricultural cooperatives and the entry of new farmers into them. Contrary to what is envisaged for natural persons - members of the agricultural cooperative, the bill does not provide for an obligation for private ‘investors’ to trade with them and allows them to compete with them. Another crucial issue for the functioning of the agricultural cooperative concerns the commercial relationship they have with their members. The rate of annual production which each partner is obliged to deliver to the agricultural cooperative, as well as the percentage of supplies to be supplied by him, shall not be less than 75% by 80% currently in force. To the extent that there is no regulation, the draft law applies the arrangements for public limited companies and the Civil Code. One of the main activities of cooperatives, cooperative education, is left to its fate, after the relevant fund has been abolished. The GOI to protect and exploit the cooperatives of their bankruptcy after the insolvency proceedings are completed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because time is pushing, I would like to make one final reference to the lack of real incentives in the draft law for new agricultural cooperatives, not for old ones, with the well-known problems they have. There are no incentives for merger, but neither are any incentives for the creation of new ones. The problems of agricultural cooperatives in liquidation are not being addressed. Instead of giving the new schemes the productive property of agricultural cooperatives in liquidation, it is preferable to promote the liquidation of which is called "conversion into money". In other words, the bill promotes the deletion of agricultural cooperatives by private interests. The SYRIZA Government has made an important effort to strengthen the institutions of agricultural cooperatives. What needs to be done today - and to no extent is done with the bill under discussion - is to continue efforts to restructure agricultural cooperatives, to tackle, in essence, their overcompensation over time and to provide additional incentives for the integration of farmers into them. In other words, a plan for the reconstruction and business development of agricultural cooperatives must be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that you are confusing things. There's another rural cooperative and another capital corporation. As I said before, the nature and nature of the agricultural cooperative is annulled by the regulations of the bill. The introduction of private individuals into their capital, and indeed, with the right to participate and vote in the management bodies, is scandalously favouring all those who want to divest the cooperatives' assets in a minimal amount in exchange for individuals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, gentlemen of the New Democracy, your neoliberal ideal and your support for strong private interests lead you to privatise everything and to the assignment and delivery of the most important sectors and sectors of the economy to strong private interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u375	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up. You've spoken for more than a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u376	I shall conclude, Madam President. This bill is part of the series of legislation already passed, i.e. education, health, energy, insurance, infrastructure and others - which I would mention again in terms of decommissioning the entire economy from strong private interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, too. Mr. Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by addressing the very serious developments at the eastern border of our country, where Turkey's actions have caused the immediate threat to the security of our country. The Greek forces of the Army, the Police, the border guards and the port did - and do - their full duty. This is recognized by all the Greek people, by all of us. The necessary consensus and unity is passed through the formulation of a common national strategy, by the Council of Political Heads, which is, as our President, the Gender Fofi, a one-way street, has said. Because it is not enough for the good statements made by the European partners. The next day must be accompanied by practical measures to support and address the problem - which we do not yet see - as a matter of the European Union, that is to say, as a common problem with a fair sharing of the impact it causes on all its members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is being attempted by the government by the bill that we are discussing in the institutional framework of the organization and operation of the country's agricultural cooperatives. More specifically, however, it does not contain reforms integrated into an integrated development plan for the primary sector, which certainly includes the operation of producer organisations and agricultural cooperatives as key tools in this project. When we say - and obviously it is so undeniably - that the primary sector is a pillar for our country's development and economic reconstruction, this should be reflected in integrated planning of its organization, support with strong incentives and a key factor in farmers themselves. First of all, not even the previous law of SYRIZA, L.4384/2016 facilitated the operation of the cooperatives. With the legislation being discussed, polynomialism remains, making it difficult for cooperative organisations to develop and develop. There is no help to our producers through incentives and facilities, but also information to adopt the principle of cooperatives, to organise and cooperate so that their effort can be counteracted, with support for their products from production until they are marketed by themselves. The rural economy, the primary sector must operate by strengthening competitiveness, production and income for the producers themselves. But what is the situation today? The primary sector's income has shrinked with increased production costs, low prices, Greekisation of foreign products, insurance and taxation, with reductions in subsidies and aids. There are difficulties in bureaucratic and financing from the banking system and therefore inability to integrate into development laws and improvement plans. Compensation is lost because the ELGA Regulation has not been adapted to the new climate change data and new diseases affecting crops or animals. There is no proper training for farmers and information on technological developments, but also on the institutional framework in which they operate. Also, the non-linkage of aid given in relation to actual production, to the extent that it should be, is deducting incomes to those who, in fact, actually produce and discourage young farmers. There is also a reluctance to participate in producer organisations and agricultural cooperatives and young farmers. There are parallels to the small lots. This also limits the potential for better results in most rural areas. Maybe the problems have to do with the past. Today, however, there is the challenge and the need to change that. This draft law does not provide an answer to the issue of incentives for participation in producer organisations, such as better addressing for their development plans, greater aid and tax incentives for their members. In the committee, of course, we have spoken a great deal, but in the House too. The rapporteur, Mr Pana, referred to all the articles, as well as to our parliamentary representative, Mr Katrin. I would like to highlight some points such as the number of members who in countries that are more developed, in the productive cooperatives in particular, reach up to three. We therefore have to deal with this in the same way, respectively. In the dominant and controversial issue of the 35% concession to private investors, we do not agree. We believe that it should be reviewed so that the nature of the cooperatives is not altered. The nature of the cooperative in terms of membership, participation, representation does not match that of the various corporate schemes. Corporate partnerships, public limited companies and capital companies may have - and have - their own activities. Cooperatives are economic and social in nature as associations of producer groups. In your proposal, this social character is lost. The financial support may be provided by programme agreements with or with the possibility of contributing funds through several portions of the partners that have such a possibility or disposal. I would also like to mention the specificity of fisheries cooperatives renting Greek lagoons, mainly. For example, in my special homeland, in Arta, in the Gulf, such cooperatives operate. I really think that these cooperatives are rightly demanding that they have a different framework of operation from the other cooperatives, since they only concern local residents who can hire these public farms together. Obviously, with a private investor much more, they change a lot in the way the lakes operate. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to address the issue of the responsibility of members of the board of directors of cooperatives, a question which is indeed linked to the reluctances that exist for participation in cooperatives, particularly in positions of responsibility. There was a long and constant request from the Change Movement, the disconnection of this responsibility as a person as a member of the board of directors of a cooperative. The amendment you tabled concerning these matters is indeed in the positive direction. This whole framework should not be a stimulus for farmers to be involved in agricultural cooperatives. I believe that there should be provision for insurance and tax information personally - not for cooperatives themselves - and for active executives. But, Minister, we insist that you also look positive at the amendment we tabled to create distinct centralised associations for the basic products of the country, olive oil, livestock products, wine, raisins, etc., with the legal personality of the cooperative, in order to strengthen the national strategy for the development of the production sectors of these very important products for our country. If we stick to what has happened so far, we may even be talking about the cooperatives involved in the bill. The role of interprofessionals is another and, as other colleagues have said, there can be cooperation with cooperatives. You'll have to see it again, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural sector needs the support of the state, economic and institutional, so that there can be positive results for both producers themselves and for the economy of the country. But this is not guaranteed by this bill, which we are voting against at first, as is the articles that alter the nature of cooperatives and, above all, they do not support their development, but also the creation of new organisations, which are also necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mandas has the floor now from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mrs Papanatsiou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I come from Messinia and the Messinia Prefecture is intertwined in the minds of all of us with the excellent quality olive oil that it has produced in recent years. Olive oil, therefore, has been subject to very negative pressures for two consecutive years. Last year due to poor quality, mainly because of climate change, they were lost by the prefecture of about twenty-five thousand tonnes of production and at a cost of about 100 million euros. This year, and while quality was excellent, and the quantities very large, the product received a huge price pressure, resulting in a loss of around EUR 1 pound per kilo, thus close to EUR 80 million for this year. Why am I making this report? Because I want to tell you one example, what is happening right now in Messinia with olive oil and to understand the value of this bill. At the moment, oil in Messinia is sold EUR 2.10 per kilo, and despite all the pressure of price and the crisis that the product is experiencing, there are, at the moment when we are talking about healthy agricultural cooperatives that offer honor to their members 40 and 50 minutes more accurately. In other words, they buy the product with EUR 2,50 and EUR 2,60, provided that it fulfils certain conditions. This only proves the protection that a healthy cooperative can provide to its members both at the disposal of the product and, of course, at the cost, which, let us not be fooled, is the result that we are discussing, the farmer's pocket, the producer's pocket. And how do they do that? They don't do it with magic. They do it with specific targeted actions. They have taken care of and found their own markets, ensure the quality of the product, train producers - members of them - to intervene when necessary, so that they can achieve what the market really needs to make available their products. Are there only such cooperatives in Messiah? No, there are not just such cooperatives. There are also cooperatives that have failed as they are throughout the country. It has not all been well with the cooperatives in our country in recent years. And because I have heard from many colleagues that this is perhaps the fault of the producers primarily, the farmers, I would like to say that it is primarily the political system of our country and the parties, who have seen the agricultural cooperatives for so many years as a long hand of power, and have been trying to get in there in order to have political benefits...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u381	Yours, that's where to show...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Apostle, let me finish. I don't understand why you're interrupting. We have a privilege to do self-criticism many times. We're not like you guys who think you did everything right in this country. But I'll see you later on for you. This lost credibility of agricultural cooperatives in the consciousness of farmers and producers as well as of the economic system in our country, at the same time as the ten-year economic crisis that we experienced and combined with the pressures that the products are subject to throughout the country, I believe that they are essential ingredients so that we can redesign the operation of agricultural cooperatives on their proper basis. Because we have the results, and we know how to do it. So, what's this bill doing? It does just this thing to restore the lost credibility of cooperatives. It shall simplify their procedures and the conditions for their establishment. At the same time, it urges the cost reduction to be as many as possible. It creates a favourable tax regime. It makes participation attractive and, of course, allows private investors to enter up to a percentage if the cooperative so wishes. I hear SYRIZA colleagues reacting to the ability of individuals to enter a cooperative and they do not think the simple thing: everything in life is not an economic consideration, ladies and gentlemen. The funds of agricultural cooperatives are too small. There are few cooperatives in our country that have, for example, more than EUR 100,000 of share capital. The entry of a private person into a rural cooperative is not that he will only offer money to survive. It will offer a professionalism that farmers need. It will offer a way out of the promotion and promotion of products that we currently need, so that we can claim and win markets. It'll offer experience. It will offer accumulated know-how that does not exist at the moment. It's not just the financial cell. Don't just stay on it. This bill also urges producers to become involved in good growing practices. Isn't that important? Is it not important to use strict quality protocols anymore? Do you not know that the first thing that international markets are looking at in order for this product to be channelled properly and at good prices is the quality protocols? The bill ensures members of cooperatives in the reserve fund to make some advance payments for their products to cover their basic costs. Of course, an entire system is being organized to enable this quality product, which we all think we have, to channel it to the markets and to achieve the most important added value that we can achieve at this difficult time. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] But is it enough for an excellent bill to correct all the problems of the rural world in our country? I think that's not good enough, too. Our homeland needs a strong primary sector, it needs professional producers, and the development of farmers into professional producers is mainly through the education of farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. And here the cooperatives can play a huge role in the education of producers, from good farming practice to education in the field, because they are the only ones who can do so, and through the education of producers to smell the producers in the good practices of cooperatives, so that they increase their members and restore lost credibility. So I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that in many things we may argue, mainly ideologically, and I also understand your difficult position after your President's 'empty' in his interview yesterday, and even though Mr Arachovitis has urged colleagues to stop talking about the big problem facing our country and to confine ourselves to the bill, it is, however, the first in the agenda of all the speakers. I would like to say, therefore, that this admission by Mr. Tsipras yesterday that "Yes, the government has closed the borders and protects them" is an assumption that is clearly hypocritical and is hypocritical because while he waited four days to see what is happening, he came after four days to write with this government's decision, as he saw that the entire Greek society was at the side of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This is not the first time, of course, that you have to make such a political revolt. We lived through it four and a half years, when we had a Ministry of Migration Policy, but we had no immigration policy, when you were dealing with refugees and immigrants, and you were building political narratives on supposedly humanitarian values, when you thought you were the only ones to have the privilege of humanism. We're Humanists, too, but we're mostly not naive, SYRIZA gentlemen, and anyway if you can't offer anything good at this juncture, at least don't try to do more harm in our homeland with your political relics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u383	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Papanatzis Catherine, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the issue of topicality, and I would like to say to my previous colleague that the refugee crisis is a point on which we are all called upon to deal with the ghosts of history. Sadly, people are becoming a lever for geopolitical interests. At this stage neither the European Union has shown the reflexes we would like to see. The truth is that there has been no serious government planning in the entire management of the refugee for seven months. This has the effect of triggering reactions to our islands. And here, ladies and gentlemen of the government, he wants attention. You can't step on two boats. We have heard Mr Petsa say today that you do not want to convene the Council of Political Heads. It's all going well, that's all. Everything's under control. You don't think an update is needed. Why, then, have you been looking for us in the past few days? With a communication show you won't be able to solve the problem. Ask for the immediate convening of the European Council. Stop the extremities and, finally, ask for sanctions for the neighbors even with veto. For us whatever the question is, the answer is always man. Let's see the bill we're talking about. The situation in the rural area and by extension in the cooperative movement is well known to all of us. In recent years a very serious effort has been made to reconstitute and modernise the cooperative framework. We knew when we were legislating that the cooperatives had been affected both institutionally and economically by the policies pursued in the rural area. We had planned and implemented measures in favour of the primary sector. Suffice it to note that, from you, nothing has been said about the rural world, both electionally and post-electionally. Your first attempt to intervene is to deposit this bill. The SYRIZA Government with L.4384 tried first, to consolidate and legitimise socially the affected credibility of cooperative schemes, secondly, to help small farmers survive in the current environment of the extreme competitive world market, creating healthy cooperatives that can help them achieve lower production costs and better prices for their agricultural products and, thirdly, to create an institutional framework to avoid abuses of power by members of the cooperative or boards. We have taken into account the good practice of cooperatives that are viable and with business efficiency. With the n. 4384 the setting-up of agricultural cooperatives has been simplified and the obligation has been regulated for members to deliver most of their production, with a view to creating the conditions for strong, self-sufficient and economically strong cooperatives. Now let's see what's going on with this bill. It completely ignores the development, economic and social role of cooperatives and directly violates many of the cooperative authorities. Remind them, 'cause we might need a repetition. It is the principle of voluntary and free participation, the principle of democratic administration on the part of members, the principle of equal economic participation, the principle of autonomy and independence, the principle of education, the principle of cooperation between cooperatives and the principle of interest in the community. In my area, in Magnesia, as throughout Greece there are live examples of long and healthy agricultural cooperatives that have managed to unite the forces of small producers, to ensure a good and stable income to their members and to support products produced in local and international markets. This draft law abolishes the control of cooperatives by the State, abolishes the limitation of the President's two terms of office so that there is a rotation of the position. They are provisions aimed at limiting the phenomena of maladministration and also to stimulate the continuing education of members and the creation of new cooperatives. For us, cooperatives are not a matter of a term of office, not even of a generation. It is a matter of many and even successive generations. The abolition of these arrangements allows for the reappearance of the pathogens of the past. I would like to stress, however, a little on your obsession with the cooperatives with the capital companies. The democratic principles of the cooperative differentiate it structurally from capitalist enterprises. In L.4384/2016, the cooperative is defined as an autonomous association of persons, established voluntarily, is a joint and democratically run company to promote common objectives. Our bill, therefore, was fully in line with the international principles of cooperation. Let's go see what you guys are up to now. You allow private investors to enter cooperatives by up to 35%. Investors will have the right to vote, to take part in the administration and in decisions without trading with him. Their entry may also be made at an opportunity price, since the share of investors may, by decision of the General Assembly, have a different value from the share of members, thereby circumventing the principle of equal economic participation. In addition, the cooperative principles of democratic administration and autonomy are being violated here, as the private investor can control 35% of the votes and influence the decisions of the general assembly where a quorum of 50% is required or less. The members - producers of agricultural cooperatives have the obligations of trading with the cooperative on a deletion penalty, while investors, on the contrary, can compete with the cooperative's activities. Thus, producers - members of cooperatives will have fewer rights and greater obligations than the prospective investors. These arrangements do not serve healthy cooperatives or those in solution and liquidation. They only serve private traders to control the market, exploit the brand name and property of cooperatives. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the primary sector is absent from your productive plan, there is absolutely no need for specific measures to promote and revive existing cooperatives, such as their funding, the improvement of the tax treatment of farmers moving through cooperatives - that was announced by SYRIZA last year and, at the same time, as a government, we had implemented tax incentives, such as tax-free surpluses and their designation as income from agricultural activity rather than commercially, the exclusion of cooperatives and cooperative farmers from the trade end. Finally, this is a bill which, in the New Democracy's dear process, restricts or alters provisions of the SYRIZA, mainly here in hand. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not allow them to prevail again in a sense that has helped to devaluate the concept of partnership in the eyes of the rural world and in the whole of society. The social economy and cooperation close their mutual assistance, cooperation, solidarity and mutual effort to promote and defend common interests. The social economy serves the weakest social groups, which is why it is a field of friction between government and counterpopulation. Democracy on the basis of production and administration is the alarming difference between the social economy and the spirit of partnership. These are the concepts that we have served both from our professional career and from our political point of view and position. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about cooperative academics but about active and active people in rural areas, so I would ask you to listen to our opinion and weigh it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u385	We continue with the MP of the Movement of Change, Mr. Mulkiotis Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u386	Ladies and gentlemen, all the threats to national security which our country is suffering from its neighbour Turkey are known. It is also known that various factors of the European Union have produced from our country yesterday. There has been too much and stuff, but - we cannot say it - nothing has been heard, but nothing has been said against Erdogan. We are now interpreting this as we wish, but there is one issue which we must stress.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u387	I said it before I did, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u388	Calm down. It is a matter for which, whether it was said or not, we must say that the Change Movement has raised specific questions and specific questions to the Government, which have not been answered. Indeed yesterday the President of the Movement of Change from this Step asked very specific questions. Of course, the major issue that has been raised for months now by the Change Movement and has not been answered to date - which some people have realised and are now reinstated - is the question of convening the Council of Political Heads. It has been put into place for months only by the Change Movement and there has been no other support. But then some people want it. I'm just saying it for comment. The major issue that is national issues must be tackled with another dimension, a political dimension, a national dimension. The Council of Political Heads must be convened. It's more than ever necessary. Secondly, we must say and take into account the request made by the President of the Movement to the President of the Parliament to convene the Conference of Presidents and implement the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Rule 63(1)C, with very specific requests, as referred to in the letter. To date, it has not been mentioned. Otherwise, on the national issue of Evros we are moving forward with a process, we are witnessing things and issues. It is in a very good situation in relation to the view expressed by all parties on the Evros fight and we continue, as we observe what is happening. But we insist on convening the Political Heads of State or Government. As far as the draft law is concerned, the Government is indeed bringing for discussion a bill - like many others that it has occasionally brought - under false titles. What's he really doing? He does the work a peace tribunal is doing today to settle a matter with regard to the statutes of cooperatives. The statutes and what they must say are the exclusive competence of the members of cooperatives and, of course, not of legislative power. In any case, however, we are also dealing with this as legislative authority. Ladies and gentlemen, the period we are experiencing is perhaps the most critical of the development of the national economy, its redevelopment, but also of the Greek countryside itself. The greatest challenge the Greek farm has to face is to design and monitor a national project based on the new thinking of the European Union. The agricultural sector in Greece clearly needs overall restructuring and consolidation. We call it over time, all the governments from post-policy to this day. Is there, in fact, a request for a given or should we consider what is going on in this situation? The producer groups need to strengthen their synergies to increase their outward and export orientation and support through appropriate insurance and tax incentives and favourable financing conditions by banks. At this stage, in the lack of liquidity and limited lending, the only realistic path to achieving economies of scale is the massive increase in the level of cooperation within the agri-food sector at all levels and in all ways. Unfortunately, however, this bill does not fall within any such logic, namely the logic of modernising the cooperative framework in a development direction, in view of the needs and interests of the Greek economy and of the Greek agriculture. It is purely legislative and only to which it aims to serve specific interests. In particular, the financing and, above all, the control of cooperatives from private capital is promoted without criteria. It does not promote an effective partnership with the private investor. It does not solve the maximum problems of agricultural cooperatives regarding the non-transparent decision-making of the members of the board of directors and the lack of democratic function. It does not address the question of cooperation with buyers and processors of agricultural products. On the contrary, it makes cooperatives simple tools to manage the market and price, which will operate in accordance with the wishes, unfortunately, of the investor - and they are called agricultural cooperatives in the government. This is because instead of providing for the partnership of agricultural cooperatives with non-voting investors, i.e. through programmatic agreements that will possibly give tax incentives to agricultural cooperatives and set an alternative development perspective for the cooperative, the bill provides that the total votes of the individual will amount to - listen! - up to 35%. That's what's going on in the anonymous corporations, and you know what's going on. The bill therefore wants 35% in size in the total number of votes available to members of the agricultural cooperative. Minister, the agricultural sector is going bankrupt. You have a great responsibility and you must take initiatives rather than download bills, as you have downloaded this bill, which do not offer innovative solutions to the existing problems of the primary sector. Let me remind you - why you are giving no solution and you are offering nothing - that you have adopted the logic of sprinkling photovoltaic parks in fertile areas, in high productivity land, while there have been unexploited hills and semi-finished areas. However, investors offer various other exchanges for the land of high productivity. Soon after we sow these, we shall reap - as I have said again - photovoltaic parks. In Boeotia there are major problems that need to be addressed immediately. I am referring to Kopaida, of the thirty-three thousand acres, the one which the current Prime Minister as the Minister for Administrative Reform has twice abolished although he had not even financed from the state budget, but was a self-financed legal person. So who manages the Kopaid today? The Department of Agricultural Economy and Veterinary Medicine of the Region of Central Greece. Listen! It's a service at a simple stage and nothing else. That's the logic of how an area is being developed by the government. That is why I am reintroducing the proposal to set up a new body, the Agency for Rural Development, for the development and modernisation of agricultural development in the two hundred thousand acres of study and construction of at least modern networks. Of course, other policies need to be developed in this context. Only there if policies are made, then we will have the farmer to stay there in Kopaida or in the wider areas that need to exist. Finally, at the same time, it is crucial to create a regional market for agricultural products in Central Greece, as stated in the 2018 spatial planning year, based in Livada, and based on the standards of auctions already operating abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the ties of the Change Movement and of the PASOK with farmers were and remain unchanged. Since 1981 and thanks to the government of Papandreou the farmer and the farmer have taken a new place in Greek society. We have fought hard in and out of Greece to defend and shield the interests of the Greek farmer. These battles, with the powers that they represent, will continue with them, because the countryside was, is and will be - as we say, but we believe it - the backbone of the Greek countryside. Because we believe that only with a substantial and collective effort can dawn a better tomorrow for the Greek farmer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u389	Mr Screkas, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for a small intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u390	A clarification, Mr President, because I hear many Members bring back and bring back the question of the possibility of building high-quality photovoltaic parks up to 1%. As they seem not to know, I would like to repeat what has happened so far. Up to now, photovoltaic parks could be built on land of high productivity on either side of the national and provincial network of two hundred metres. What does that mean? I will give you an example. In the Trikala I am elected, we have about a thousand kilometres of national and provincial network. With two hundred and two hundred meters on either side, it means that in four hundred thousand acres it could, by way of derogation, take a small-intervention license and build a photovoltaic park. I can inform you that the total agricultural land in Trikala is about five hundred thousand acres, i.e. not 1%, but 30% of the land of high productivity from which the provincial or national roads pass could build a photovoltaic. We come and we put a ceiling, a stop and say you can build up to 1% of the total cultivated land on high productivity land. That's how we protect the land. You don't understand. I think you have now understood and understood that what we have legislated on - not now, for a month now - has been in the right direction, because it protects the land of high productivity. I repeat, for you that you do not understand, that so far you have been able, by way of derogation, to manufacture agricultural photovoltaics and, apart from that, you do not understand that, and I am surprised - to poor people, to small and medium-sized farmers, to build a photovoltaic next to their pomone, next to their own field. It does not have to go, Mr. Vice-President, KINAL, to seek to buy other fields or find another land to build, which may be very expensive, because it will have very precise conditions of construction, but it seems that you are not really interested in farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u391	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Apostle, what do you want? You want to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u394	I want to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u395	Here, you have the floor, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u396	What Mr Screkas said does not respond to the reality, because since the opportunity opens for photovoltaic arcs in high productivity, the next route will be in combination and will be able to sell up to 75% of the energy produced. We'll have the image that the land of high productivity is covered with photovoltaic arcs. In fact, while what you want - and we all want - is to strengthen the primary sector by addressing the cost-of-energy problem with the photovoltaics, we will eventually lose the land of high productivity and, at the same time, we will all be servants of specific interests, for the simple reason that, with the possibility of a megawatt per investment, a large store will be created, with specific interests, which will control the whole situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, I would like to make one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u398	Minister, let's not open it any more. The view of the government and of counter-population has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u399	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u400	Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Apostle, I don't understand what you don't understand. You say that the high productivity land will be covered with the photovoltaics. I'm telling you that we put a wall, a ceiling, a ceiling of up to 1% of the farmed land. When you ruled, 20% could be built, 30% of the land of high productivity...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u402	What are you talking about, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u403	There wasn't even a millimeter!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u404	... because of the derogation of two hundred and two hundred measures from each of the provincial and national networks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u405	There was 1% protection!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u406	How hard is it to understand this very simple thing? You say it'll all be covered. I'm telling you that the little, poor farmer, in his pomone next door, in his field, in a small piece to build a photovoltaic, so he can stay in his field. You only want those capital investors who have big capital to be able to build photovoltaics! We tell you that in Germany 16% of the photovoltaic power is agricultural photovoltaics. In Greece it's only 9% while we have so much sun! You don't want farmers to build photovoltaics! You just want capital investors to do it! Congratulations, gentlemen of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u407	There's 1%!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u408	It's understood, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Kozani High School, 1st Department. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will now give the floor to the SYRIZA Member, Mr Aylonite Alexander - Christo. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. In the months that I have been here, as a new MEP, all I have seen is that the Pope's infallibility is from this side. This is where we're all useless! The same is true of the national issue. The national issue has been confronted within the House and the Chief of the New Democracy and Prime Minister is making the point that it is him who will resolve the refugee problem! Swinging! Honestly, I believe that. It is a huge, time-consuming problem, which the causes, the source of the creation of migration and refugee flows, continue to exist. I think: Good, very well - the Chief of SYRIZA agreed - to close our borders. On the other hand, which have opened the borders, what policies have the great people of the European Union promised? Where are the sanctions? Who will press, exercise the necessary diplomatic and economic sanctions for Erdogan to close the border? Who will press him to comply with the joint declaration, the agreement which the European Union has made with Turkey? We divide the world! Go to the villages, go to the places where people hurt scared! Where does the nationalist eruptions lead? Beumerang will return this situation to you who are creating this national tension, this acidification. The patriots here, the patriots from there! Is that the national policy exercised by your government? We'll see them here in the very near future. Let's go to the bill. I will also say directly, Minister, that the sole aim of your bill is to control partnerships from private individuals, which you are baptizing 'investors'. The entry of private individuals into cooperatives and, with the right to vote and to vote, will cause a problem for cooperatives. You are completely altering the cooperative spirit. Since it was created in the vineyards - if I am not mistaken - the word 'cooperative' has been completely altered so far. You see that all those who are involved, the cooperative farmers, or in any case all of the cooperative Greeks, are in direct contrast with you. Only a cooperative across Greece is in line with your bill. So this is the universal denial. The infallibility that you have, of engulfing it a little in terms of views, which have also been heard from this side. A little! Listen to us! Honestly, I do not understand why you are abolishing the institution that has to do with cooperative education. I do not understand why the limitation of the Presidents' term of office has been abolished, as well as the more proportionate way of electing administrations on the grounds that weak administrations are created. One cannot claim, for an institution, whose main principle is cooperation and solidarity, that the members of the board of directors cannot cooperate. Where did that sound? It seems to me that the reasoning of the closed company in the cooperative prevails, not democratic procedures. The previous law, passed in the government of SYRIZA, was a good law. He limited and stopped the collapse of the cooperative movement, and many reasons there were and joined in the collapse of the cooperative movement. Don't give him another curse, too, so that the cooperative movement could disappear from Greece, when Greece created the cooperative movement. I referred earlier to the region of Vineyards. We want healthy cooperatives. That is our purpose. So, where your bill - and it does not do so - is to continue to try to restructure cooperatives so that confidence can be regained and that overcompensation can be radically addressed and, secondly, additional incentives can be provided for the integration of old and young farmers into cooperatives. Does this bill work? I think it doesn't work out, and we're going to be given a chance sometime to talk about it again. They are, therefore, a negative condition for what I said earlier, to vote on this bill. But let me say something, Minister, because I come from Corfu. Corfu has a very big problem, which is about how to support the cooperative movement there. It's a seed of olive trees. To think that the island of Corfu has four million olive trees and the Paxes sixty-five thousand. In recent years it has become a tourist decor, in fact, to sell the tourist product and tend to become a monoculture tourism. We were born and raised, families and generations for generations, from the olive grove, and now the olive grove is inclined to disappear in terms of production. It has five-and-a-half euros of oil. The cost is about 2.5 euros. How can it not be abandoned? Do you know what farmers do in Corfu, Minister? I have asked you a written question since 2 December and you have not answered me. They cut their olive trees and sell them for wood! And now you tell me to go to Corfu and tell them: You know, they intervened in the bill on cooperatives. What cooperatives? What else is Corfu's cooperative supposed to do when that happens? There's something else. There is a joint ministerial decision to close the mills - fifty, sixty mills - which are paid out of a quantity of oil, from that produced during the mill. Where should they get financially? They will be shut down because they cannot invest a large sum, which even exceeds the value of the entire factory or craftsmanship, so that there are no environmental problems with the slump, that is, what the fruit is expressing. So you realize how serious we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u410	What about environmental problems?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u411	I say: There is, Minister, and please think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u412	Since when is the arrangement for the compliance of these mills?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u413	It's from the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u414	No, he's been here for a decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u415	No, no. Listen to me. The joint ministerial decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u416	Why all the other olive mills have complied with Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u417	Minister, listen a little, please. I happen to be a child of olive oil, that is, I was born in the lagoon, we tell Corfu, and I know the whole thing very well. I will tell you this: They are fifty, family character, oil mills, which embroider olivefruit in their area, which, if they invest this type of type that the Ministry asks, they must sell their oil mill to make...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u418	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u419	It is legislation for many years that the joint ministerial decision, which I ask you to change, will give them a postponement not to shut down the mills, because it will also destroy what is left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u420	How many postponements have they taken so far?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u421	If I'm not mistaken, they've got two postponements. So give a postponement in the direction of seeing the PPP method build a factory that processs slug at a centre-weight point so that these issues can be resolved. It's very important. Otherwise, it will stay whole Corfu without olive mills. A single mill of olive oil has been licensed. I have these thoughts and I shall end, Mr President, after emphasising the following: Help the price of oil. I did not say that you should fight only at European Union level. Strengthen the price of olive oil, for example with the 'all inclusive' system. Why don't you stimulate this market, buy, in other words, hotel enterprises local oil, standard oil, as the legislation provides, so that local production can also be strengthened, Minister? These are issues of crucial importance to Corfu olive grove, for a large part of the production process, which may be on second fate now, but a few years ago - before the development of tourism - was at the top, it was monoculture, only the Corfiots and the Paxians lived with it. After these thoughts, you must understand, of course, that we are not going to vote on this bill and I expect, if you are kind, Minister, answers to what I have said to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the 1st Kozani Gymnasium (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Charitou Dimitrios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u423	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's clear and unequivocal position on the broader designs of the neighbour, the work of the refugee - immigration - the essential and unequivocal need to protect our country's borders, one would expect you to show the necessary responsibility and seriousness. But where can you get them? Instead of realising the criticality of moments, seeing the great picture of the geopolitical threat that our country is facing, you are unfortunately insisting irresponsibly to fuel deoxyism, polarisations and divisions in our society, which is all it does not need at the moment. Today, without complacency, we must seek to formulate a national strategy to the minimum. For our part, we're ready. If the Prime Minister cannot or does not want to raise the burden of demanding from the European Union the sanctions for Turkey or threaten to veto everywhere, I would remind you that the convening of the Council of Political Heads has already been requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u424	We've already rejected it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u425	That's your right. Expose to the Greek people. I come to our point, ladies and gentlemen. Those who are following us will say that we are against shadows, that is to say, not only because the image they have for cooperatives is detestable, but because, Minister, we are short, before the new growing season begins, a large part of our farmers are in real weakness to prepare and cope with the needs of the new year. Let me remind you, Minister, that the Rhodope farmers who were affected last year by extreme weather are still waiting for compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, I hear you constantly talking about the problem of cooperatives, as if you were poorly accountable. They're your victims, gentlemen. Did you forget that you had turned them into blue and green party parties to elect MPs and suggest ministers? Do not shake the finger for the efforts made in the previous period, in order to get into order, gentlemen, among the thousands of illegitimate bodies of the cooperatives that still trouble farmers, even their heirs. It doesn't suit you, gentlemen, the role of excellence of cooperatives, but the role of what puts tombstone in the cooperative idea. And you know very well what it's called. The core of your arrangements, gentlemen, lies in the shareholder investor introduced to the cooperatives, to the "principal 35%", which will put the money as you say. Many people have told you that this is not a cooperative. The representative of the International Cooperative Alliance has clearly told you that, where such a regulation has been sought, it has failed. It does not sweat your ears when, in fact, you know that it has failed in countries where the cooperative idea is strong and entrepreneurship is serious. It was explained by a co-operative president very simply. He told you that there can be no coexistent producers from one and a shareholder investor in a shape. I remind you what he said, gentlemen: having made a contract as a cooperative to sell milk for 90 minutes, he pays producers - members of 87 minutes, while on the market he moves milk for 80 minutes. The "Main 35%" shareholder will obviously seek, pursue, pay the producer - member of the cooperative not by 87 minutes, but by 80 minutes to benefit from the difference of 10% as a trade profit, at the expense of the producers, within the cooperative itself. What don't you understand, gentlemen? That others are the interests of the stock producers and others of 'Master 35%', which will have the potential to dictate decisions for his own interests at the conventions with a marginal quorum? You do not legislate, gentlemen, any cooperatives. Legislation, if involved, is to dismantle existing healthy and sustainable cooperatives. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You want to show this as an opportunity to - allegedly - finance the producers who have ideas. Put that aside. We know and know very well that, behind inert cooperatives, there are huge properties in agricultural infrastructure, such as Rhodope. I can assume, gentlemen, that the size of social property throughout Greece, which is now the target, is in the designs of the cooperative models that you will introduce. You'll tell us suspicious. And why shouldn't we be? You regulate everything, even the slightest change in the statutes of cooperatives. By chance, gentlemen, do you not bring any - but no - arrangements to protect all this huge social property? Probably a dowry, you're holding her for the shareholder investors. You do not revive cooperatives. You are setting up the colpo grosso, in order to make the farmers' social assets and wealth greater, to be given the hands of the few, the 35% gentlemen, who will gradually transfer it to their portfolios. I shall conclude, Mr President, by addressing the new generation of farmers. I will remind them that the social property of cooperatives is the labors, the sacrifices of their parents. They must defend her, in practice overcoming mortal shapes, such as what you are setting up. Search for collaborative shapes. Besides, that's the real producers. To claim social property, which belongs to them, to claim policies that will address the structural problems of the primary sector by exploiting Community resources, new technologies, technology and research. The primary sector, the rural economy, can in fact make a decisive contribution to the overall plan for the productive reconstruction of the country, gentlemen, only if the priorities of the political forces really deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u426	I call on the member of the New Democracy MP, Mr Manoso Voloudakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not used by the Stepma to talk about matters other than the bill under discussion, but the days that we have been living for, I believe, are the days that we are imposing it. We have been through an attempt to invade our homeland by thousands of people who are not entitled, directed by Turkey, in a situation that has led to a prosecuting situation, as the Prime Minister said, on our national territory. I believe that we are all proud of the effectiveness and wisdom shown by the Armed Forces, the Police, the Port Authority on the islands, but also the ordinary people at the border, who each, in their own way, tried to support and still support the effort to defend our borders. In the difficult time Greeks, as they used to, showed patriotic attitudes, showed fellowship. This, ladies and gentlemen, allows us to hope that our country has tomorrow. The Prime Minister has managed to bring the leadership of the European Union to Evros at the time of the crisis and this is of particular importance, not only for what we have already received from this visit, namely the reinforcement by FRONTEX of the surveillance forces, additional financial assistance, etc. I mean aid, not only for what has already been done, but also for what is being done, because of course, history is not over. We have a long way in front of us, in which we need the support of the European Union, especially because we need to revise the famous Dublin Regulation, which regulates asylum provision in the European Union, which is completely wrong and which must be reviewed in a way that allows Europe to protect its borders, to finally protect its identity - I add - and in each Member State to be able to protect its borders and national identity. In the first four days of this emergency, we have seen from the side of SYRIZA and the left in general - but the Civic Opposition of course is of particular importance - a return to the old ideas. In the statements by your top officials in the media, social media, even in announcements by institutionalised bodies of the Civilian Opposition Party, such as his youth, for example, we have seen that the old concepts of open borders, the reception of immigrants are dominated, in every way and we have seen that the government is being accused of a far-right nationalist policy, or I do not know what else. We had to get there last night, four days later, and while all of this had been done, which I described, to see Mr. Tsipras in another historic assbag to recognize that yes, any government would close the border. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, your president is trying to make you PASOK of the past, but he's not coming out of it. He's not in his DNA or yours, and society understands that. So be clear about your position and see: Are you with the overwhelming majority of the Greeks, who want their homeland in full, their borders guarded, their national identity clean and specific as they are or are you with the marginal groups of 3%, the 'open borders', the lawlessness everywhere and the bazaar in universities and society? I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a substantial reform here: the possibility of entering private investors' cooperatives, with the possibility of contributing capital and gaining votes of up to 35% of the total. In my opinion, this is an important reform which enables healthy cooperatives to raise capital from the market, to grow, to compete on the market. It is a possibility that SYRIZA's law also provided for a very critical difference, of course. It provided for the possibility for an investor to put money in, but without the right to vote. These things don't happen, of course. No one would have put his money on unless his money was packed out of the money, so it didn't work until today. It is very important that from now on this possibility is foreseen and I do not really understand the reaction of Opposition to this issue. In fact, I can understand it. Simple logic doesn't understand. Why? Because here the law does not require any cooperative to acquire private partners, to acquire private shareholders, private capital. No one is being imposed. But if a cooperative wishes to do so, it can. This possibility is given, and the Opposition, the Left, and not only, is occupied by holy mania. Why, I'm saying? It doesn't make sense. But there is one reason in fact. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, loyal to your ideological advances, you believe that you, the enlightened leadership, know better than they are about how to do their job. This model of riding society has died for a few decades. It's good to know. We move to our country to another model, a model that leads to real growth. I shall say a few words about the amendment to the lawlessness, Minister. You are doing very well and bringing this amendment in order to speed up the procedures for the supply of the materials of the tacotic contests. I will repeat something that I also told you in committee: that is good, but it is not enough. The recruitment process of the Tuberculosis Branches must be completed. You let me know it's going on. However, I would like you to ensure that in the next few days the regions will be able to launch invitations to recruit the regional authorities, because they must in any case be able to work in June. We must not under any circumstances deal with problems like the one we faced in Crete last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u428	I call to Stepma the MP of SYRIZA Mr. Kalamatianos Dionysius - Charalambos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are discussing today in the bill concerns cooperatives, a crucial issue which concerns both the production process and the production of our country. However, the issue of topicality is the refugee - immigration - and let me comment on it too. We must highlight this issue, the refugee - immigration as a European issue. It is not enough for communications, it is not enough to visit, hits on the back, and only funding. We need practical support from our European partners. We heard nothing about Turkey's condemnation of refugees to serve its own geopolitical objectives. We have heard nothing about concrete measures and economic sanctions against Turkey. We have heard nothing about the equal distribution of refugees in all European countries, so that Greece does not become a soul store. We need to draw up and implement a national plan on this crucial issue, and we are ready to help it. But you should leave your arrogant and authoritarian behavior. Act to convene a summit, convene a Council of Political Heads, to convince - and we believe - that we need unity and not divisional practices. As to the draft law we are discussing, it does not respond to the problems of the primary sector, the primary production of our country. However, it clearly reveals the draft government on the nature and nature of the country's agricultural cooperatives. The government sees itself as turning agricultural cooperatives into capital companies. It is clearly its intention to show private capital as the main protagonist, which will determine developments in them. It gives private investors the right to be directly involved in cooperatives. Your account is that with the entry of private investors the question of the financing of cooperatives will be resolved. But what you are going to achieve is to pass the control of cooperatives on individuals and, of course, to change their character. The cooperatives will be transformed into enterprises that will completely remove the idea of cooperation, without, of course, benefiting healthy cooperatives, but also the cooperatives in liquidation, which will not benefit from it. A characteristic is the reaction of all the bodies that took part in the meeting of the Standing Committee. They expressed their strong concern at the entry of private investors into cooperatives. It is worth mentioning that the Director General of the International Cooperative Alliance stressed that the entry of private investors is contrary to cooperative logic. Furthermore, he invoked his experience and pointed out that there is no positive effect in other countries where something like this was attempted. It is good to hear these experts who are aware of the international situation. The new draft law comes in a straightforward break with the cooperative authorities. The principle of autonomy and the principle of independence shall be affected. The principle is that the property of cooperatives belongs to generations and not to shareholders. Critical is the fact that the draft law allows individuals to participate in cooperatives with 35%. As a result, the decisions to be taken will be essentially in line with the interests of individuals. Even the way a private person can obtain 35% is at least controversial. This can be done by a decision of 1/5 of the members and by a simple majority. What does that mean in practice? It means that 10% of members will be able to determine the fate of the whole cooperative. The draft law also circumvents the democratic principle of 'one-vote'. It allows the value of the share of the private investor through the General Meeting to be determined. At the same time, it may be different from that of members. In practice, a private investor will be able to acquire 35% of a farm cooperative with a price and value of a share different from just a General Assembly decision. In addition, there is no obligation on the members of the investors to deal with the cooperative, and this is compulsory for the members, for the cooperatives. All of this comes at a time when your policy has left a negative footprint on farmers, farmers and fishermen in the country. The facts are well known. You increased by the time you entered the price into the agricultural current of air, so you increased the cost of production. Otherwise, you say you want to reduce production costs. Your executives constantly claim with emphasis that policies and actions should be promoted, aimed at reducing it. Your actions, however, show the opposite and have the opposite effect. As far as livestock is concerned, market controls have been reduced, farmers complain to us that there are illegal Greekisations in dairy and other products, and that promotes unfair practices, so that producer prices are suffocated. In the fisheries you voted for all fishing vessels, which will be calculated on the basis of the length of the vessel and not the turnover of each fisherman. In all of this, you also promote the privatisation of ELGA, thus leveling its public character. Our farmers, Minister, need an effective and modern ELGA, which will directly and fairly compensate for the real damages, not a private body, which will transfer investment costs to our farmers and farmers. The SYRIZA Government managed and achieved a reduction in cooperative taxation, from 13% to 10%, to apply the privileged treatment of cooperative organisations in the Rural Development Programme. I left for the end the biggest issue of the days in the agricultural sector. At least in my home country, Elias, it is a major issue and it has reduced our farmers' incomes very much in the region, the issue of the price of olive oil. He has really despaired our producers. Your choice for inertia is known. All you know to do is keep saying that you cannot intervene to support production. Invite the rules of the free market. At the same time, other countries facing the same problem of low prices are intervening and trying to obtain support from producers. This is your unexistent primary sector policy. Today, as long as we ever need strong agricultural cooperatives that will protect and strengthen our producers. You, in contrast to this need, legislate for agricultural cooperatives on the basis of capital and the benefit of the private investor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall be 30 seconds. In conclusion, the future of the country's agricultural cooperatives, according to the plan brought by your Government, is prescribing a pitiful one. The role of cooperatives is particularly crucial for the proper functioning and is a crucial factor in the country's productive reconstruction. Healthy cooperatives can function as an impediment and a protective environment in difficult conditions. We are voting against a bill which, not only does not solve problems, but unfortunately creates new ones. Its sole objective is to transform agricultural cooperatives from collaborative centres to a bulwark of entrepreneurial interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u430	I call on the New Democracy MEP, Mr. Skondra Silina.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before anything else, I would like to take this step to thank and congratulate the Armed Forces and the Security Body, who strongly defend our country's borders from invaders, who are pushing the thousands under the direction of Turkey. I am proud, too, of the courage, readiness, efficiency and diplomatic coexistence shown by my Prime Minister and my Government in this extreme challenge. However, I also welcome the attitude of Mr Tsipras, who is in agreement with the actions of Mr Mitsotakis, even though this is how he surprised almost all SYRIZA. The Greeks and Greeks with their fellowship stand to the extent of the circumstances, proving that Greece is not afraid, does not blackmail and continue to guard Greece and Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, when entering the debate on the bill, I must say that I firmly believe that the primary sector can contribute to growth, boosting the national economy and creating jobs. Our government is working unreservedly for these goals. However, it is a prerequisite for the production model to be restructured and restructured. This cannot happen if the rural world does not engage in honest partnerships and synergies with professionalism, responsibility and trust. A farmer cannot survive, become competitive, liberate and produce, enjoying, both himself and the economy, the added value of his production, without a radical incision. The starting point may be the new structure and the new way of operating cooperative schemes. This necessary reform that evacuates and strengthens agricultural cooperative action brings Development Minister Makis Voridis with this draft law. Through this will be the relaunch of the cooperative movement, which is going through a serious crisis and has been completely denounced over the past twenty years. Leaving back the difficult years, we put weight on the primary sector, which contributes to the self-sufficiency of the country, to the commercial balance and can be the beginning of a new industrialisation of our country. Greece is not only Athens or the large urban centers and the cosmopolitan islands. Greece is also those areas that cultivate the land and raise animals and produce primary wealth, such as Thessaly, the perimeter of Greece and Karditsa, which is a prefecture of rural and the second poorest in the territory. In order to recover and escape the stain he is experiencing, he needs a solution to his problems. What are these in areas where the local economy is relying on farms? The small and fragmented lot, high cultivation costs, low productivity, resulting in a lack of competitiveness, time-consuming product movement, low disposal prices and limited access to foreign markets. Agricultural cooperatives are an important vehicle to solve these basic problems. Ladies and gentlemen, on the road to restructuring production, we are redefining the legal framework, which relates precisely to agricultural cooperatives and agricultural partnerships. This is a modern legislative framework that responds to real data, away from ideologies and party purposes that existed before. The law seeks to simplify the establishment, the flexibility in composition, the transparency of operation and the opportunities for substantial investment. The role of the State and the private initiative is balanced and freedom is given to the cooperatives to decide and act in the light of their interests. Thus, we avoid state custody with cooperatives trapped in pathogens, distortions and attitudes of the past, such as party emancipation. The role of the State will be supervisory and control and will cease to be a brake on their proper functioning. The private initiative is introduced to ensure that cooperatives operate as a competitive business, as they must, in order to ensure their viability. The bill allows private investors to participate with the right to vote, which will not exceed 35% of all members. I stress that it is the exclusive right of the statute to shape the threshold, the terms and conditions for the participation of private investors. Investments, of course, solve the constant problem of the financing and operation of cooperatives. The tax arrangements governing cooperatives are redefined, since their surpluses are not taxed. And distributed profits will be taxed as a dividend with 5%, according to the applicable tax. The National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives, which is the National Coordinating Organisation for Agricultural Cooperatives and other legal persons, is set up. One thing I have to raise is about bankrupt associations. Behind this, there are workers, as in the former Karditsa Agricultural Cooperatives Association, who have lost their jobs on the one hand, on the other hand, they have so far not been repaid on the part of the NSA. You are well aware, Minister, and please give a solution as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the primary sector of our country today accounts for about 60% less gross value added per acre than the one in our European partners. This can only be reversed in a form of economic partnership by achieving economies of scale. It is important for today, but necessary for tomorrow and for young farmers, because old generations are gradually retiring and the rural population is shrinking. By placing cooperatives at the centre, farmers are strengthening and production is not just sustainable, but efficient and profitable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We need agricultural cooperatives that are rewarding, with excellent technological and scientific support and a proper organisation that inspires confidence and authority. The liberalisation of cooperative and cooperative activity is an important tool for transition from the small, weak, isolated farmer and livestock farmers, whose survival is based on subsidisation, to models of agricultural and livestock farming. The bases shall be established for vertically integrated units, from cultivation to standardisation, marketing and marketing. We believe in the agricultural world and we practically support the primary sector, namely farmers, farmers, beekeepers, fishermen and farmers. We used to call it a election, show it a post-election. We are next to the farmers and we are struggling for Greek quality products. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u432	We continue with the Deputy of the New Democracy Mr Maraveya Constantine. Until Mr Maravegias gets the floor, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Member, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, is asking for a short-day absence abroad for 9 and 10 March. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u433	The House approved the requested permission. Here, Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you will allow me, starting with, to convey the voice of my fellow citizens and of my local society that they deserve congratulations to the government and Prime Minister personally for managing such a major crisis on our borders, which allows us all here in the middle to continue planned government work in such a way. On the occasion of the debate on the bill on cooperatives, I, as a member of the Magnesia, must recognise the many positive measures already taken by the Government for primary production, support measures for the Thessaly farmers and not just. I would remind you of the insurance law, which we voted on last week, and I would like to look specifically at the members of the former OGA and the sensitivity that the government has shown to the Greek farmer with a new, favourable to producers, a protective framework for reduced contributions and increased benefits, which differs from the one for all other self-employed people. First of all, the New Democracy voted for the normal retirement of farmers, who continue to work. Also, as for all the other self-employed people, we have legislated for the full decoupling of their insurance contributions from the years of insurance, but also from agricultural income by introducing the new six insurance categories. We have also introduced the absolute flexibility in selecting these insurance categories with the free choice at the beginning of each year and the freedom to remain for at least one year each farmer in that insurance category. We have also introduced universal favourable treatment for all new entrants in the production process with low contributions for the first five years of their insurance lives. These are regulations, which contain many innovative elements and are particularly favourable to both insured and retired persons in the former GAAP. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has not only brought benefits from insurance, but we have encouraged economic use of agricultural land by unlocking large investment in renewable energy sources, which also has a very positive impact on the farmers of Magnesia. We voted in 2019 and a series of tax reliefs, such as the low import rate of 9% and for agricultural incomes, and we introduced an extremely low tax rate of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes, which is the subject of this draft law. Our aim was and remains the financial relief of agricultural cooperatives and the simultaneous development of the primary sector, by setting up new collective schemes by farmers, farmers and fishermen. Minister, at this point it certainly comes to help the bill being discussed today. Agricultural cooperatives are undoubtedly valuable actors in the social economy. With this idea I grew up in my own home, as the son of an employee of the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Pelion and Northern Sporades. In our country, however, we have had a particular problem of understanding the position and importance of cooperative ventures. Some, influenced by the market economy, considered that the cooperatives were nothing but private enterprises, which distinguish themselves from their shareholder composition alone. Others, under the influence of existing socialism, believed that agricultural cooperatives in Greece should always be state-owned, something - more or less - like Soviet colostrums, with guaranteed absorption of their production, without any risk of business and, finally, without any incentive to their own partners. This is a equally misconception, caused by monotony in political thinking in the 1980s. Today, however, our country has gone ahead and we have now realised that cooperatives cannot be treated as private groups, nor can they be regarded as a local branch of a state which is to suffocate all collective actions by farmers. This bill is an example of this new philosophy. It seeks to stimulate the business dimension of agricultural cooperatives and corporate agricultural partnerships, without altering the purely social character of these collective schemes. Thus, basic innovations such as legal persons - including private companies and businesses - are introduced to be able to establish or participate as investors in cooperatives up to 35% of the total. Social control on agricultural cooperatives is therefore maintained and power by the cooperatives themselves continues to be exercised, 'blocking' them both with funds and with know-how from the private sector. The procedure for establishing agricultural cooperatives with the approval of a statute by the relevant Ministry and not by a judicial decision is also simplified, which will speed up administrative procedures, in parallel with the limitation of the burden of the courts. They shall be reduced, from 20 to at least 10, to the persons required for the signature of the agricultural cooperative in question or may be even fewer persons, where special conditions exist. Finally, there is provision for the possibility of the cooperatives or third-party legal persons providing microfinance in the form of loans of up to EUR 25 000 in total for each cooperative member, which will also strengthen the self-sufficient production unit of all cooperatives, which is the individual agricultural holding. This bill contains provisions of particular economic interest, such as the possibility of creating a special reserve of surpluses or profits, which will not be taxed. Also important is the fact that any goodwill resulting from the valuation of the assets in the transformation of a cooperative will be exempt from any tax, as will any transfer of real estate to the real estate offices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Amongst the other articles in the bill concerning the responsibility of the Ministry of Development, I would like to make it clear, Minister, that the provision for the non-implementation of fine protocols imposed on holders of reafforestation parcels is unbundled, since they have brought other agricultural parcels to reafforestation. As I mentioned to you in the letter I addressed to you, this was a fair request, which had been made and had to be settled in the same way as in the past. Minister, I also take the opportunity of today's debate to present to you, in the form of proposals, the recommendation I have received from the Federation of Thessaly Farmers, on matters that are urgently resolved. Priority issues are the timely payment of the related aid for sheep and goatmeat. Important issues are the quick establishment of regional veterinary offices and the immediate implementation of the CSE, which concerns the indication of the country of origin of meat on the cash receipt of the meat shops, which is an absolutely necessary step to control the Greekisations of the lambs. Other measures, which can substantially help our farmers, are the grazing fees to be considered as operating costs and the extension of the organic farming programme to more beneficiaries. Such simple and practical measures, which can follow up the draft legislation, will strengthen the entrepreneurial dimension of both individual farms and cooperative schemes, and this is something that the current leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development is seeking and for which we will be able to find helpers in the future, as is the case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u435	I call on the New Democracy MP, George Stylion. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u436	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is spending difficult hours, as it has to deal with a shoulder blackmail of its neighbour, Turkey, who works desperately. Our Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the New Democracy, responded immediately and decisively to the Turkish challenge, guarding the borders. He did what he had to do with every government in a sense of his historic duty. He internationalised the issue, invited the European political leadership to our country, put everyone before their responsibilities and we continue. But the next hours and days will be crucial for the country, citizens and social cohesion. We all need unity, seriousness, coolness and realism. We need to follow the example of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, which these difficult times for our homeland preserve the maximum good of national security. We thank them from the heart. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on 'Agrarian cooperatives and other provisions'. In the past, some - governments, parties, groups - tried to control the cooperative movement. Others did, others didn't. Then the crisis came and put new data in the already problematic cooperative area. Questions are therefore raised: Are cooperatives accomplishing the purpose for which they were created? Is it necessary to restructure and reconstruct the cooperatives? What can and should the state provide cooperative organizations? According to the explanatory statement of the bill, of the four and a half thousand agricultural cooperatives in the past after the rationalisation of the Scandalides law, we have reached about two thousand, and today we are in the following data: One hundred twelve are in the process of resolving and clearing, while only eight hundred nineteen are in operation. This development creates problems for producers with small lots, which is the majority of our country's farmers. Our farmers do not have access to cooperative schemes, they cannot exploit the economies of scale, they lose sight of competition. In my opinion, it is necessary to create an institutional framework in order to encourage producers, young farmers, to organise their cooperatives in the context of the modern economy and management, to operate autonomously and in an environment of creativity with private economic criteria, with modern accounting standards, with an extroverted approach, with quality production, by strengthening their competitive advantages. The international scientific trends of management in the agri-food sector point the way. Their proposals, a result of scientific research, suggest that through synergies and partnerships in the patterns of the Clusters abroad, farmers could improve their performance and improve their position. The question for our producers is specialization and extroversion. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of sustainable cooperatives is a matter of concern. This is what today's legislative initiative by the Ministry of Rural Development is trying to achieve. He tries to deal with the flaws and problems of the past, to use accumulated experience, correcting errors and omissions and to give the signal of how the cooperatives are organized in the new era. These are cooperatives, which have to be only trade associations, with the aim of adding value to the production of the product, through joint actions, but without going into the production process, where each producer is free to follow its own model, through the use of an institution where we have to spread it and strengthen it, of the producer group. With today's intervention, greater degrees of freedom are given to cooperatives, removing them from the suffocating control of the state, while at the same time, procedures are being introduced, which make them more flexible and more effective. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill achieves the following: Firstly, it provides for the organization of a cooperative by a smaller number of producers, as this allows the horizontal organisation of producers by a product, while urging modern and medium-sized enterprises, in a particular geographical area, to create trade associations and give goodwill to their products, thereby supporting local entrepreneurship, creating conditions equivalent to those of a public limited company. Demographic changes, which have taken place in recent years, are also taken into account. Secondly, there is special support and assistance for women's cooperatives. Thirdly, the Ministry is defined as a supervisory authority, but without checking the legality of all the decisions taken by cooperatives. This, unfortunately, was the case with the previous law, L.4384/2016, where it led to a suffocating control and bureaucracy and did not pay off. Minister, I would like to point out the following and give you particular importance. In my opinion, there should be no supervisory board. In my opinion, the general assembly cannot amputate the board of directors from its responsibilities. The democratic functioning and representativeness of the cooperative must be guaranteed. State supervision is right to move in the right direction through procedures that ensure transparency and control. I am referring very briefly to a major reform, where private investors are allowed to invest, to help farmers with know-how, with a flow of capital and, above all, to the use of distribution and sales networks which investors themselves have. They have an obligation to give up 75% of their production in the cooperative. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The highest representation of cooperatives, which will be the state's institutional interlocutor, along with the Technical Chamber and other bodies, is introduced. It is a body that is legally strengthened with possibilities for using European and national funds. Moreover, it is also defined as a body of cooperative education, which currently does not exist in Greece. But I do not agree with the legislative structure of this body, as this creates multilingualism and conflicting voices many times. The third party cannot and must not engage in an activity which, in many cases, can also conflict with the primary cooperatives. We must not go back to past practices that have become synonymous with the collapse of the cooperative movement. I would like to make two final points. Firstly, in Germany, which is a country of the Western world, 50% of the turnover of agricultural production is moving through cooperatives and cooperative organisations. It is a bright example to urge our farmers to move that way. Secondly, Minister, I have some proposals for the future. We must support producers to move, along with increased productivity and adapting to the new data of the new CFP, to organise and form ECO SKINS, to operate as knowledge networks with the research bodies in the country, and to give particular incentives and special privileges to schemes involving cooperative organisations, to prioritise funding, to provide funding for the schemes from the European funds or from the existing capitals or from the development bank. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Every bill on the country's agricultural sector is of national importance. And it is national, because it is the agri-food sector, which gives dimension, size and existence to the Greek region. He's the one who gives life to the remote villages of the country, to our islands. That is why we must pay particular attention and treat him with the importance, as you do, Minister, with today's bill. And I urge you to continue in this direction and in your next steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u437	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Blouchos, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a country is not just an economic and social system. It is also a country with what it is about and what it involves. And some of us are here, because it's a special and unique homeland. And as long as this people have not decided on self-determination or consents to suicidal patriotic ideals, we must do our patriotic duty. This is what the government is doing wisely and determinedly. The opposition barricades of the last few days have only caused grief. I'm coming to our point now. The fifth of economic and entrepreneurial immorality is behind this wonderful title of "cooperative in Greece" at the end of the 20th century. All the perception of the productive money tree, which makes money for everyone to eat, hides behind this activity, which in the last thirty-five years was initially advertised as deposition and panacea for primary agricultural production, and then was the starting point for every collective effort. The collective behaviour of a whole sector has, in my view, demonstrated two realities. Firstly, the countryside must cease to belong to the province, to discontinue its relationship with farms and livestock, and to be urbanized and, secondly, to the absolute failure of the state-owned enterprise that has been identified in the form of a Soviet-type economy, without incentives to pay, dignity and dignity. With only stimuli, the cooperatives became fields of almost absolute corruption, irresponsibility and self-interest, without business consciousness. We made the farmers' sharers and trapped them in the knowledge of our ideological radars. We made them accomplices to the crimes of our maliciousness and our pathogens. We assimilated them to the turbulence of our bourgeoisie. They didn't take those. The only solution is to stimulate the cooperative spirit, which is currently being pursued. In my opinion, this is one of the last chances we have. Because the cooperative, despite the failure of the state-owned corrupt schemes that have been preceded, is the only hope for a country like us based on the small, household-owned family business. This draft law creates the framework within which cooperatives acquire flexibility through their statutes, in order to proceed with the adoption of small and appropriate organisational features. A collaborative entrepreneurial scheme can now be involved in rural development programmes, exploit them. Today there are few, but good and healthy business cooperatives whose successful activity makes us optimistic about the future. They are cooperative enterprises that are either innovative rural enterprises, business associations or, in particular, new types of business cooperatives. Young farmers and farmers are creating associations of producers based on the logic of entrepreneurship, competition, innovation and quality. These farmers are at the top of the major European reclassifications in the agricultural sector. Only these protagonists will be able to pass through the era of digital potential agriculture in the standard of agricultural precision. Some of the new-type cooperatives are now in Europe's technological leadership, each being. These cooperatives also cultivate the logic of wider synergies by providing strong confidence in national champions along with healthy patriotism. Given the specific nature of the small lot on earth and the form of the ownership of the livestock, the new type cooperative is the only prospect of creating units of scale, with a secure income for the producer, a quality and competitive product, with export possibilities for the vast majority of Greek farmers. At the same time, the economic survival of the country is directly dependent on a crucial condition, that there should be a truly modern state guaranteeing growth with social justice. In Drama, the main pillar of local development is primary production with a few, but exemplary efforts, Minister. Such an example is the Neroscope producer group. It managed by a method, with crystalline transparency in economics and intentions to be a major attractor of potato cultivation, a local nationality for us and for all of Greece. It has a turnover that reaches 3.5m euros and an export load exceeding the second year of operation of 25% of the product produced, using the geographical indication and talking about Neurokopi, a name - seal on the cultivation of the potato, an area with special microclimate and extreme conditions. What does a business like that want? Protection? Oh, no. Subsidies and security prices? For God's sake! This company wants a secure institutional framework for healthy competition and contractual agriculture. It wants complete plans and management of almost fifty producers, more than 15 million pounds of potatoes in a seventy kilogram size class for the entire Neuropolitan basin. This attempt enters into the logic of 'I support my country, I support my country'. This example is borne in mind by the country's Prime Minister himself, who visited it in election time. Such an undertaking, ladies and gentlemen, we do not support it, but we are protecting it with a serious institutional framework of operation and competition like the present one. Those of you who oppose such legislative logic, what are you actually doing? You wish and seek the stay in misery to have the so-called luxury to empathize in the miserable state and to fight for some fantastic fairy of some fantasy movement, the movement as an end in itself. They are known practices of our post-government time, which have closed their cycle. In the afflicted and black-and-white, forgive me the neoliberal, he fighter farmer - and it is not a bathtub on some beaches, but a fighter of life, people of night labor - we only owe respect. You're the one working for him. Respect means no hypocrisy, no populism and left-wing intelligence. Respect means imprinting the harsh reality, our failures, the new environment, as this is being shaped and an essential effort to find the necessary and capable conditions to ensure the sustainability of a crucial pillar for the country in the demanding future. And because, although a doctor, I come from these black-broken farmers, you will allow me to close with a reminder to Mr. Dimitris and Mrs. Lenny, my peasant parents. “It does not distinguish the field from its heart and from the cracks does not separate its children. His phantom and his sons, his sons, his joy and his soul. Home, work, home, work. Working, tired, deformed, old hands of the farm, similar to roots like those of the olive and the vine we cultivated." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u439	The speaker of the New Democracy has the floor, Mr Maximos Sedetakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my own places when we say production our mind goes to agricultural production. I imagine that's the same thing for the parts of most of you. This means that Greece is a country based and still based on its agricultural production. We used to be Europe's bachches and it was a key reason why we participated in the EEC at the time, which was established by the association of European States and the agricultural sector. At that table Greece had a special place, because its goods were separate. And they're special, because nature wanted it to be. However, the fact that they were and are separately does not mean that they are also competitive. In a world that changes at high speed, in a world where trade in the agri-food sector grows, with large commercial companies playing, we lost the train of competition, we stayed behind. And we stayed behind, why? Firstly, because we have a small and fragmented lot that does not allow for economies of scale and, secondly, because we have turned agricultural cooperatives from a tool for international economic competition into a tool for local micropolitical competition. State intervention has created distortions and ultimately a bad historical precedent. We have created cooperatives with debts, with unpaid farmers, which have hit the cooperative movement. What did we do? We shot our legs once more. And what was the ending? There is no record today of the official institutional representative of the cooperative movement. There are a large number of co-operatives - ghosts that they owe and are in liquidation. They are cooperatives that are under an indefinite liquidation regime. Here too, Minister, I would like to invoke your legal capacity, and I would like you to contribute to resolving this Gordian bond of liquidation, which creates a climate that is too delaying corporate patterns too. We want to put in preconditions and timetables. At some point, we need to get this thing over with. So we have removed from the countryside the basic instrument for developing the primary sector and the worst, and we have devalued it in farmers' consciousness. So the main purpose of this bill is to give rather than give again - because they have never practically had a basic development tool for the people of the countryside and to legitimise it in their conscience, a tool that follows the spirit of the market and entrepreneurship and allows the people of the agri-food sector to use it as a weapon against the large capital companies that are dynamically entering the area. How do we achieve this? Moving on to two sections that will change the image irreversibly. The first incision is made in the microclimate of the cooperatives. Cooperatives are given flexibility and freedom. The main thing, however, is in our confidence, trust in them to cooperate freely and to shape their relations with their statutes. On the other hand, freedom and flexibility is provided by allowing for the first time private investors to hold up to 35% of the shares in a cooperative scheme, private investors that can participate in the board and have the right to vote. Here we have had the greatest reaction from the opposition that does not want the private investor because - he says - the cooperative principle is being violated. I, as a practical man, really can't understand that and I can't imagine anyone investing their money somewhere and not having the right to vote. And I do not hide from you that I would have liked the Minister to have been more generous, to have a higher rate and not to have limited 35%, because this percentage could also ultimately be a brake on an investor, although, of course, it is the percentage that gives the limit to protect minority rights. But, in any case, Mr Minister, it seems that you do not want to cause another liberal shock to people who have been used to be under the strict stimulus of the state over the years. Anyway, this, like we said, changes. We facilitate the association. The statutes will be approved by the Office of the Ministry of Rural Development. This will be the supervisory authority, instead of the judiciary, and so the process of establishing an agricultural cooperative will be simplified and the costs for cooperatives will be considerably reduced. We also encourage the association. A surplus created by the rural cooperative is not taxed. Ladies and gentlemen, the second section is held at the level of the institutional representation and unity of the cooperative area. The state cannot have a reliable social partner as an official interlocutor with the cooperative movement. And, yes, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we of the conservative party are saying. We want a reliable social partner for our interlocutor, while the rest of the progressive part-sessions are a voter. That's why they were counting heads. They were counting, in other words, the number of cooperatives of zero value only for political influence, and so we ended up with two deported cooperative representatives. Well, this is changing today. At third level, the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives is set up and its leadership should represent 51% of the cooperative turnover. I mean, we count differently. Power criterion will now be the turnover of the cooperative. That is why all four thousand cooperatives will be cleared and extinct. We no longer want co-operatives - ghosts. We want real cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, in this piece of legislation the New Democracy Government has made another election commitment. It shows and proves that it is possessed by words and deeds. I would remind you that the law on agricultural cooperatives was one of the four priority points in the pre-election programme and a key request from cooperative organisations that considered SYRIZA's existing legislation too regulatory and state intervention. Their request was to let them do their job as they know it, solve their hands, legs, minds and fight competition with companies - majesty. That's what we promised them we'd do, and that's what we're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u441	The speaker of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the legal status of cooperatives has changed for the eighth time for the last 40 years. This, of course, is highly indicative of the traditional handshake and the timeless lack of careful government planning on this very important issue. Here the government does not simply legislate technical details that need to be updated over the years, but a completely new shape that completely overthrows the function and structure of cooperatives as we know it in Greece, but also as they see it unanimously abroad. In fact, the incompatibility of the model proposed by the Ministry with the definition, principles and mission of the cooperatives, which all the parties to the hearing agreed at the outset that the bill had nothing to do with cooperatives. All of the experts from all the countries - Greek and foreign - told the committee that the form provided for in the draft law is an association of persons who operate completely outside the cooperative framework and which has nothing to do with what international best practice defines. The Director-General of the International Cooperative Alliance, Mr Bruno Rowlands, apparently considering that he is addressing a state that has legislated for serious consultation and without rush, said he is at the Ministry's disposal for the next few weeks to help with his experience in the necessary corrections. So we wonder why so rapid accelerating and voting. Let's see, then, what this expert said to us, among other things, by transferring the institutional memory and experience of a hundred and fifty years of international experience and transfer exactly what he said: "As far as the question of investors is concerned, powerful countries with history in the cooperative movement, like France and Italy, started such an effort in the 1990s, when there was a fashion in Europe to create these tools. They were also talking about secondary exchanges of shares, but all this was actually lost, limited, disappeared, because it was unorthodox and, in any case, they tried it and saw at the end that the model was failed and did not work. And you can do it if you want, but let us not let it move forward and then say afterward that it did not work." In essence, therefore, he said that this was a bankrupt model that failed in much stronger economies and in much more organised production systems. He also said that here we are talking about altering the cooperative structure itself, and this can be particularly dangerous for agricultural production and the economy in general. He spoke of the need to build a system with the guaranteeing presence of large federations, such as in the countries which already have a possible cooperative movement, so that their members, on the one hand, enjoy direct services and, on the other, attend a structured negotiation with the government and other players. It also confirmed that in the 1995 Declaration a very precise definition of what a co-operative model has been given internationally and that the principles and values, which reflect cooperative practice and are implemented in almost all the states of the International Labour Organisation, have been formulated. He also said that this definition distinguishes the cooperative from the capital companies, to which you want to convert the cooperatives, and reminded you of the recommendation 193 that Greece has already signed. In short, therefore, he put the bill out of context. So instead of looking at how you really stimulate cooperatives and to revive already broken agricultural and livestock production in our country for the benefit of many, the government decides not only to run counter to any international good practice, but at the same time applying a failed model. 10% of all employees in the world work in cooperatives with a billion of two hundred million members. That is what Mr Rowlands represents. In Greece, the proportion is low. 5% of farmers who account for about 11% of the labour force, that is, twenty-fold less members of cooperatives in Greece than the world average and eight times less than the Union. Instead of incentivising partnerships based on standards that they already achieve internationally and thus stimulate primary production and further economic growth, you choose to give strength and profits to the few, which, with 35%, will make an absolute contribution to the new forms of capitalist cooperatives. It is impossible to ensure that the investment is maintained in this way. Thus, the strategic investor can leave at any time, undertaking even what is appropriate to him as a partner. So let us think about how easily manipulated a cooperative can be, when at any time 35% can threaten to leave, which, in fact, can even destroy the shape and the rest of the others. And the profit is to be seen in the end as the big shareholder and not the many. The bodies have also unanimously taken you to the point that you do not receive any welfare on the top issue of providing cooperative education and you do not create solidarity funds to and from the cooperatives. You also poorly tax the surplus of production, because it is not a profit resulting from transactions with third parties, but it is, on the one hand, a price adjustment that has already been made by the cooperative, on the other hand - not just - income, which comes from transactions between the agricultural cooperative and its members and not from third parties, which would be regarded as income, profit and, therefore, it is taxed. You also do not properly regulate the framework for undistributed reserves - of course the cooperatives have incomprehensible assets, which cannot be distributed, because it has been created by tax-free reserves which are not distributed, i.e. unavailable, the well-known 'locked reserves' - and therefore the wealth created by generations of farmers, which cannot be wasted by the last members, nor by the private businessmen who want to be involved. Moreover, you are putting tax exemptions at risk and pressing the other companies to seek equal treatment with cooperatives, since cooperatives can now operate in purely business terms. In conclusion, I shall refer to a conclusion which has been reached in committee. In particular during the crisis, the only companies that did not present any losses are cooperatives and the only banks that were not financed by State resources were cooperatives. The UN itself said that the cooperative model is enduring times of crisis. The Greek cooperatives that were destroyed failed because they did not follow the cooperative principles, but the laws and market principles. So these disastrously failed principles today, the government wants to make them law, so we as a Merra25 will vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u443	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st High School of Thessaloniki (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on Stepma the last of the list of Members of Parliament, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Savva Snowides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u444	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is really very important that you can move on with areas. It's also very important to be consistent with what you promise. It's just as important that you can get along what's fair and reasonable to satisfy it. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] These three features are also what the government of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy had and an excellent example of credibility and consistency is this ministry and this minister. I would therefore like to mention the question of whether we should go to the logic of the economy. We all need the economy. And I heard it said in the Chamber that we have small lots, small incomes. What's the answer? The answer is one and only: it is the economies of scale. From that point on, I think that the oldest cooperatives in the 1986 law, which is consistent, have also moved in this direction. So today, with all the pathogens and having heard a lot about the old cooperatives, we also need to find a good word, that they supported the farmer at critical times from uncontrolled trade. They had a role in time, regardless of whether their evolution made major pathogens. So it's important to be able to adapt to the new age and the new era is here. I'm going to make a little observation to the Ministry and the Minister. He said at some point in the Opposition "Woe if we matched you", meaning in philosophy. Why should the logic of social and solidarity be given to any political party? Social and solidarity economics are something that is applied throughout the world and in particular in countries which have no left-hand money at all. For example, it is said: 'Why should approximately one third of risk capital be involved in a cooperative'? Because in 2016 with the previous government, the Social Cooperatives Act clearly provides that one third may also be legal persons and participate in this COMPA. This is also one of the examples of a social economy. Of course it's one of the things that didn't happen. It is this government's duty to support social cooperatives as well. In solidarity social economies, countries such as France, Germany, Canada may have more than 40% of their economy based on it. Of course this is the case: we say 'private economy','state economy'. It's not like that. There is another economy that Greece has never seen so positively. It's the social solidarity economy. In this direction, the Ministry proposed a draft law, which really comes in and adapts to these conditions so that Greece can enter this process with healthy cooperatives, with a healthy treatment of the cooperative. Why, then, is this law and cooperatives in the right direction? Because there is free participation, democratic administration, independence towards the state, but there is also a risk of business. I do not mean, of course, that they should be registered or should have an annual general meeting. These are the basic principles of the association and we are very close to them. I therefore believe that, in addition to the basic law, interventions were made in support of cooperatives, who may not have a serious responsibility - criminal or civil - and we do, of course, owe it to reason that someone is innocent until the opposite is proved to be the case. It is right, therefore, to intervene so that these people can stand with dignity in the family without the property being at stake every day, and above all their honor. It is also very important, Mr Minister, that you should make your own contribution with the co-legislative ministries - that this story should be brought to an end and that a time limit should be introduced to the logic of liquidation, not only as far as we are concerned here, but more generally as we are concerned. A framework has to be established so that it does not go to the interna tional for many decades and finally forget what is the great meaning of liquidation. This is therefore a major issue. I would also like to refer to two cooperatives which are worthwhile and decent. I heard before about Drama in Neuroscope. We really have healthy cooperatives, as in my area. There are the co-operatives of cherry producers who have had a terrible development over the past few years, governed by clean and transparent relationships and another cooperative company, which goes extremely well, the kiwidows of "ZEEA", like "Agios Lukas" with cherries. They go extremely well and face competition ahead, directly and have the potential to give the best to farmers, especially a very great security. Because many times our farmers - and we all know it here - happened to fall victim to people who probably giving them a better price never gave them their money back. It is one of the issues we should see, Minister. We have to see whether a Solidarity and Security Fund for these products should come up, as there is in tobacco today and none of the tobacco producers have ever lost a single euro. I would like, therefore, to conclude by saying that we are in the right direction, as the social and solidarity economy does not belong to any area, but to common sense. This bill that we are ready to vote on is going where it is due to society itself. I have the New Democracy programme with me on what we promised. The first is that we introduce a new law on cooperatives and reduce taxation to 10%, etc. We are giving further encouragement to the establishment of new cooperative schemes. Are they? Is there any new ones coming? Are we helping us get in that direction? There is consistency and I would like to congratulate the Ministry and the Minister for their very strict commitment to reason and, above all, what we promised. This enables us to hope only for better. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u445	And we thank Mr Snowides for the last one. Evening, too. The list of speakers is over. I will give the rapporteurs and the special speakers some time. We'll start backwards. I think a three-minute is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, can we not talk for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u447	No, you can't, because you've exhausted his time, Mr. Katrin, as I see here. Six digits is your number.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u448	We are independent, Mr President. We talked at least time from everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u449	We will first start with the rapporteurs and the special speakers. We start at Mera25 and Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis who has the floor for three minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, just a moment to get in touch with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u451	Let's get to it. Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u452	We are going to have a good deal of time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u453	Sure. Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u454	For the rapporteurs time is seven and a half minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u455	You're right. I'm not gonna steal you. I asked if you'd like three minutes. If you want to talk up to seven and a half minutes, you can talk for seven and a half minutes. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u456	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in my speech I raised the following question: when will investors who have 35% leave and ask for all their money back, how will the cooperative not fail? Quite simply, I rely on yours in Article 7. What is it that you describe? You describe the fact that there will be a statute that will define the terms and will not be on the same day, but it will be within a few months, in a six-month period, in one year. This in practice means that the cooperative, which has been opened to the private investor because it has no liquidity, took its money, used it for liquidity and is not going to have it available in either one or a half years. This is the secret of the liquidation of the cooperatives. But, you know, we don't have to talk, because that's what's on the whole bill. What you are interested in - what it seems, what we are speculating by reading your bill - is to provide funding from the Common Agricultural Policy for 50% of the costs of cooperatives to private individuals, along with the property and good name of cooperatives. That is the purpose of this bill. But now, because the society that listens to us today is very interested in what is happening at our borders, I would like to make a little reference to what has been discussed here during our debate. Instead of the government - and you, Minister, and the Prime Minister - now be at the European Union's Ministerial Councils and veto every decision of the European Union, until the European Union has been forced, on the basis of this crisis, to move to the fair sharing of humanitarian hospitality and care to be taken, you are pleased that the prisoners and the shield of the European Union have become Turkey. In other words, we guard the borders of those who do not want to share humanitarian care. The prisoner - and with the signature of SYRIZA - was Turkey. Turkey has left, and it's our turn to be the prisoners. That's actually it. Right now you should be in the councils and veto every decision until that sharing takes place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u457	That's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u458	These days it was announced that I am surrendering six state-of-the-art submarines from Germany to Turkey. There is a record of war armaments from Germany to Turkey! By being Europe's good child, the country and this place do not win at all. You are leading us to a dead end both in the humanitarian part and in the essential part. You must understand that if you do not negotiate, you lead us to deep deadlocks and poverty, but - I am sorry - and many other dangers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u459	Thank you very much. From the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassilis Viliardos has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u460	Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Greek Solution referred to production per acre in Greece, which, based on the speech of Eurobank’s Director-General in 2017 at the ECONOMIST Conference, was EUR 190 per acre. I put it in the Minutes for there to be. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Minister of State objected to him by saying that the income per hectare in Greece was 1.044 euros. It was therefore referred to completely different rates, then filing a graph of EUROSTAT in the Minutes. This graph refers, firstly, to hectares instead of acres and, secondly, to income instead of production. He did not mention, thinking that he was talking to fools, that half of the income of Greek farmers comes from subsidies and subsidies, while only half of the market, as we will testify in the Minutes, is there. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another production, then, and another income, while it is a shame to distort a Undersecretary in this way. In the Netherlands, there is little difference between income and production - EUR 1.736 and EUR 1.700 - because the Dutch do not support production with the CAP's money, but the packaging, technology and the 'logistics'. That is why the Netherlands has evolved in the third largest exporting country of the world to agricultural products, despite its very small size, with two and a half times less cultivated area from Greece and with almost a tenth of our own workforce, while 50% of the Dutch trade surplus comes from agricultural products. The first in income is Malta - to understand exactly what is happening - with EUR 5,135, according to the graph brought by the State Secretary. Secondly - I put it in the Minutes - again in income is Cyprus with EUR 1.997. The average turnover of Greek agriculture is only EUR 11,059 - extremely low, and it is the turnover that should be of interest to us and not the subsidies - while the average turnover of the European Union is EUR 34,785. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we understand that agricultural production in Greece is not going well at all and we need to do much more. With regard to the amendments tabled, we fully agree with the homicide. Besides, we suggested it. We also agree with the ELGA's netting of the farmers' insurance contributions, as proposed by a New Democracy MEP from Pella. I'm sorry, but I don't remember his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u461	Mr. Karasmanis said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u462	Because we accept a lot of complaints about investment projects delivered under the ESDP and the government has not yet checked the files, a warm request to deal with the matter, if it is correct to inform us and if you hear it. Also, see to it that seedlings are re-established in the cooperatives. We also hope that you realise that the secret of the primary sector is centrally design of primary production, co-operation, - as in politics is what is needed - and also greenhouses and nets and, finally, truths and not lies. With regard to the bill now for cooperatives, which are absolutely necessary to support the primary sector in Greece, we will only highlight some articles, since we have already mentioned them in detail at all, reaching our conclusion. In this context, we are saying: In Article 6(3), the entry of individuals into the cooperative capital with the right to participate in the administrative boards has no chance of being implemented by genuine cooperatives and by serious cooperatives. So it's not a useful device. They will probably make use of this provision of some rural partnership companies. It seems, however, that by this provision you are making it easier to pass the cooperative's assets with very little money on to private individuals. It should be stated, however, that investors are not allowed to engage in any competitive activity for the purposes of the agricultural cooperative. In addition, participation of non-user investors should be laid down in this law and should not be subject to the rules of the agricultural cooperative. We believe that 35% is too large and, if this is concentrated in the hands of only one investor, it becomes an absolute majority. We all know that it is extremely rare for them to be in the general assemblies of agricultural cooperatives over 70% of voting rights. In Article 7(4), to a legal person of private law such rules must be imposed by the cooperative itself rather than by the State. We do not have a communist regime. A cooperative that does not owe anyone and does not ask for money from anyone, why should there be such restrictions from the state? The State can control its legal function and nothing more. Everything else is the responsibility of the members of the cooperative. In Article 8(1), the deliverable quantity of production should be determined by each agricultural cooperative and, of course, not by the legislator. We don't have a communist regime here either. In addition, no cooperative can prove that a member delivered 75% of its production, since there is no document from its members that ensures the cooperative and its interests. Article 10(5) does not provide for personal detention of the members of the agricultural cooperative for the obligations of the agricultural cooperative to third parties and the public, as well as for obligations between members and the agricultural cooperative. So if a member of the board of directors is also a member of the agricultural cooperative, then is it not supported, even if he has committed criminal offences such as money laundering due to huge public debts? Next question: if a member in cooperation with the board of directors of a rural cooperative receives a huge loan without paying it back to the agricultural cooperative and the agricultural cooperative collapses due to this event, then there is universal discharge? Paragraph 6 must be deleted in our view so that the share can be seized, sold and exempted from the cooperative by persons who do not fulfil their obligations for the benefit of other cooperatives. Paragraph 8 is an excellent 'eye' for illegal acts of collapsing creditors. Any overdebted person will thus be able to join an agricultural cooperative and ensure that he is protected against confiscation through delivery to his agricultural cooperative or his loans. Is it possible that the price, really, is considered irresponsible? If a cooperative's products are sold, why should the price not be seized and reduce its obligations? It looks like the satisfaction of some government voters. There is no more time, so I will close with our conclusion to the whole bill which is: it favours financing and controlling cooperatives from private capital without solving the major problems of agricultural cooperatives. Problems are identified as to the transparency of the decisions of the members of the Management Board and the lack of democratic functioning. A major problem is also the unlimited bureaucracy in the establishment, operation and maintenance of agricultural cooperatives, while at the same time limiting the innovation and use of people in rural initiatives and no incentive, despite the fact that Greece is a country with many prospects of developing agriculture and, more generally, the primary sector. In conclusion, I stress that without successful and functional cooperatives the primary sector in Greece is not going to have a future. Today's bill, which of course we will vote against, has many mistakes and great deficiencies, so it will not help at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-six students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st High School of Thessaloniki (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor. You're the only one who has the right to speak seven and a half minutes, because the Chief spoke to you just 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u464	The confrontation and exploitation of the uprooted people, used as ballasts of geopolitical games, as well as nationalist circles, continue. We heard a few bugs in here, too. On the side of the JRC, our parliamentary representative said so and there is a communication from the political office today. Let me make it clear, however, that Turkey's bourgeoisie is blackmailing and haggling, legalizing the invasion of Syria, sowing refuge and death. Who has condemned this Turkish invasion, as well as the invasion of Cyprus? Nobody. Neither the European Union nor the Americans nor NATO. What's going on now? Turkish military intervention is escalating with the backs of the Americans, NATO and the European Union and is in a bazaar with Russia. What do we have to wait for? Increase in refugee status. And what are the Europeans telling us? Keep the border. It's European. Now they remembered! When Turkey violates them, they know nothing about borders. And what did they tell us? Did they say 'come to implement the distribution between the Member States' or the 'family reunification' agreed by Germany and did not do so only once? Of course not. Not even agreed. On the contrary, what's going on? The necessary - because yes, the situation is critical - to call the people's enemy the victims of the imperialist wars and interventions and to turn the country into prison in order to protect the fortress of the European Union by means of tools for its anti-immigration policy and laws. That is why their policy is unacceptable and we rightly call for the abolition of Dublin and the shameful statement by the European Union - Turkey signed by SYRIZA and the rest of them have agreed. But for the moment that there is a crisis, as it was in 2015, yes, we say to move directly from Turkey to the border and to organise it with all the necessary procedures in the countries that want and, of course, close all hot spots on the Aegean islands and not create new, not closed or open and stop any participation, support and involvement in NATO, US and European Union operations in the Middle East region that support Turkey's invasion in Syria, Libya, perpetuating war and disasters. It is clean, clean, and let some try to rob her. Minister, all the ministerial amendments you have tabled have been signed by other Ministers and it makes sense, since there is a co-responsibility. The Ministers for Finance, Home Affairs, Development and Investment are signatories. For the administrations of the cooperatives, the Ministers for Finance, Labour, Development, etc. are signatories. Therefore, the amendments tabled by the JRC will of course require signatures and agreement from other ministers and in some cases through timely questions that we have asked have agreed at least in words. So what are we asking you for? Do not reject them on the grounds that they are the responsibility of other ministries, because that is what you have told us. You can see them again, because they are also the responsibility of your Ministry and at the same time they are just requests and unfinished groups of people such as the workers in cooperative organisations, but also the residents in Lower Souli. I think it's your constituency too. You might know that. These people have been running out since 1928. They're close to filling in a century of trouble. So we want you to see all three. Farmers' cooperatives with the laws so far and PASOK and SYRIZA have not worked, but they will not work with this law either. Why? It is not about small and medium-sized farmers, it is about the invasion of the investors who will have everything to be fruitful. Investors' entrance had been prepared earlier by the law of SYRIZA. You're the one who completes this with their salt. You're trying to show up government and Critical Opposition that you have differences. You're setting up a fake fight. A colleague arrived to describe SYRIZA's previous law as Stalinist. He's laughing, too. He has not understood that the same articles will be passed on to existing law. It's the same methodology. Can I say something else? Farmers in the former Soviet Union had conquests, had work, had income, children's stations, had holidays, free health, education, sport, culture. They had no anxiety about debts, contributions, taxes, as to whether they would have tomorrow’s bread, grains, fertilisers, pesticides or feed for the cultivation of the land or for livestock plants. No agony. That was all broken up. When they started making copies of capitalist laws, then they ran away. They lost eggs and baskets, and unfortunately the whole planet was affected. Why? Because there is no adversary awe and we live all capitalist barbarism, wars everywhere, hunger and misery. So you have the same policy because you are united by a thread, the same thread. It is the root of the European Union's common agricultural policy. So you cannot differentiate between you two, but you are trying to strengthen the creation of the great capitalist agricultural property. It's just New Democracy is taking it a quicker step. After all, that seems to be the case, if you wish, and the evidence given yesterday by Mr Vorides. What did he say? Six hundred and twenty of them run a cooperative. 77.7% has a turnover of up to a million, and of course it is doubtful whether in the European Union there are representatives of those who have a turnover of less than EUR 50 000. 18.5% has a turnover of one to nine million euros. So for the first million they will have one vote, and then every two million more, so they are strengthened, and of course 3.7% is the top for a turnover of over nine million. So, finally, if we sum up the last two scales, 22.4% cannot be ruled out by a majority of the votes, since it does not go with the number of representatives, but with the capital. That's what you're going to do, that's the logic. So the problems of the farm, of course, are aware of them. Mr. Screkas referred to some. Your choice, however, is not the solution for the majority of small and medium-sized farmers, but for big farmers and investors. We therefore call on farmers not to allow their property to be used and salted by capitalists and to be fruitful of the cooperative property of two to three billion, which was made by contributions from parents, grandparents, their great-grandparents, but rather to use it for the needs of their region and the social total, which means to vote in their general assemblies not to invade cooperatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u465	Thank you very much. Mr. Apostle Panos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u466	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the amendment on the GFCM, which I asked the Minister for, but I did not receive a satisfactory answer. I shall therefore mention the following: There is a decision by the AACC which concludes that the GFCM falls under all kinds of staff at Law 2190/1994. Otherwise, the proposed amendment is unconstitutional, as the legal nature of the GFCM ranks them into the State legal entities of private law. The Ministry's justification for excluding GFCM from the private-law staff procedure regarding the fact that they are not charged with the state budget I think it is badly projected. According to the plenary decision, therefore, the reason why GFCFs cannot be excluded from the ALP procedures is their legal nature, as it is being developed in detail, which ranks them as State legal entities. It is also noted that there is no single internal service regulation for all GFCMs and that the recruitment criteria for staff are not mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the Minister and Members' seats. What we have gained from the debate is that the bill cannot deal with the time-consuming problems of cooperatives, such as opacity in the decisions of the members of the board of directors and lack of democratic function, poor financial soundness due to limited cooperation between members and limited capacity utilisation, bureaucratic obstacles in the establishment and operation, limited innovation and lack of interconnection with the bonding markets in a connective agricultural policy, limited use of the potential of young people with knowledge and skills, and the attachment of agricultural cooperatives to private funds that increase the distance to farmers from the administration of each cooperative. In particular, this issue is reinforced by the provision for entry of individuals with the right to vote in the cooperative, which I think we have all analysed in detail. To say things clearly, because we must always see the reasoning behind the tabling of a bill, it is not at all accident, in my opinion, that this is the first bill to come from the Ministry after the government took office. This is the draft law on agricultural cooperatives under discussion. This in itself demonstrates the government's view of the agricultural sector. Demonstrates the position of priorities and the lack of substantial strategic planning for the whole primary sector. I am not, of course, talking about the subject matter, but about the qualitative value of this legislation. So we have heard nowhere, Minister, in your speech to put on a new framework, a new vision for cooperatives, to speak about the verticalisation of production in a cooperative, namely how a cooperative will produce, process and resale the product, to talk about incentives, education and a change of attitude. You have confined yourself to a legal analysis of the role of the private investor and of how much more freedoms you give cooperatives in relation to the previous law. The conviction we strongly have in the Change Movement is that it is the country's primary sector that can really get the country out of the crisis. I do not think you have that confidence, because problems are multiplying rather than falling. In the discussion of the current question of the Change Movement for the primary sector, just a month ago, we asked you some specific questions about the cost of production, the prices of products, the use of the 2014-2020 programme, the increased tax and insurance obligations of farmers, the delay of due compensation and much more. In short, we have received a clear answer. Here, then, there is an issue of failure, which comes to be complemented by this bill and its testimony. On the one hand, you tell us that the philosophy behind the bill is to provide freedom and trust to the cooperatives and, on the other hand, you strongly support it, but the provisions of the bill do not prove what you say. For us, the philosophy that is certainly absent completely from the bill is the philosophy of the incentive to the cooperative. There is therefore a total absence of the holistic approach to the country's primary sector in a development direction, which, by motivating the producer to cooperate, would give new breath to the cooperatives. The fact is that the fragmentary policies of the Ministry responsible for dealing with some of the agricultural world's problems do not currently see a solution. There is a need for a new political proposal that will result from measurements from studies, from consultation, from genuine interest in the primary sector. The draft law, unfortunately, is contained in statutory provisions. It works differently from the way of development that we see. It is a user manual for how to establish a cooperative. In conclusion, I would like to express my concern not only to the staff, but also to the majority of the producers, who may have had the expectation of creating a new cooperative framework with more individual incentives, more prospects, more innovation, with the availability of modernisation for these so representative primary agricultural associations. Another opportunity for legislation with real reforms I think it has been lost. So, with the aim and the overall philosophy behind this draft law, we are voting against it in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, too. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA for five whole minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u468	Thank you very much, Mr President. On the end of the process, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin as all Members of Parliament have been present. But, let me ask: do we understand how serious things are in our neighborhood, so that we can only manage them in a communication way? Our neighborhood is burning, we have a problem, which is being worked by the neighbor. It would be appropriate, therefore, not to divide society, not to divide the citizens, not to use the MATs against the islanders, not to use arson statements, but, as former Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras said, to put back where necessary. Let's stay on this. All Greeks are as patriots as welcoming. We must maintain that. Now he needs fellowship. We do not need to talk about open, closed borders, one blaming the other about the open or closed borders with five and a half thousand in Moria and how open or closed the border with twenty-five thousand in Moria. But let us go ahead and see the bill, because it has serious issues. Let's see, first of all, what the two bodies really said, even the two bodies that express the cooperatives. By the way, I don't know if you asked them, Minister, whether their representativeness is with the mosque or with the members in these two unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u469	Both are fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u470	Both? Did you ask them how their representativeness is to what they already have unions? So what did Mr. Satolias say? He said: "We know that reality in Greece is different. The cooperatives are highly indebted, most of them in suppliers or in financial institutions.’ So in what circumstances, Minister, a convention which, in the first two-thirds, in the second place, if it is a quorum of one fifth, cannot be for this reason the introduction of investors? He's got serious issues. However, the most serious issue, ladies and gentlemen, is raised by Mr Katsoulis from the SASOE, who says that one of the data in our minds is the lack of funding. The presence of an investor, if there is no reason for the cooperative to deal with it, results from a lack of funding. In other words, one's only problem is the lack of funding. You are clearly told by the institutions that you are invoking. So let us look at the reality and let us not look for any other excuses, other ways of serving other interests which are introducing the 35% entry into the co-operative capital with voting rights in the cooperatives. For many days, we have not had a question which we ask the committees to answer. Why, at another rate of cooperative share decided by the general assembly as convened? Why? If you want to say that it can achieve a better price, put it as a safety test that it cannot be lower than the cooperative share. Why do you leave it open? So, that's not it. The question is, to make a comparison with our own law, the previous one, with what data we are discussing. You presented data that you had after 2016 or 2017. Why don't we talk before that? Because obviously there were no data and Mr.4384 came to put a class, to give data, to know why we're talking. This was therefore the key element of the intervention of Law4384. To finish with the main one, that here you have really put provisions on cooperatives and provisions on capital companies in the blender. We see it in a series of articles. In Article 33 for the property, the partners are not shareholders. There are other principles and values governing cooperatives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We see that you have confused, if you want, eventually large and powerful cooperatives or you reduce members. We see it again in the provisions on minimum cooperative capital. You say you're not a prisoner, you're interfering with it. I think that the main element of this bill is confusion. On the substance, we will keep positive, such as keeping Mr.4384 and everything else positive, but in principle we cannot agree to this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, too. Sir with "K" capital. I said five minutes, he didn't protest. Now Mrs Marillena Soulis - Vilialis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u472	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u473	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u474	Not our neighborhood, but our house is on fire, Mr. Arachovitis. Greece is our home. Of course, away from us and pseudo-balances and splitting words. First of all, I should like to thank everyone and all my fellow Members for their participation in the debate we have had these two days. I believe it has become clear that agricultural cooperatives - with the exception of minimum, minimum exceptions - in the present situation and on the basis of their productive potential cannot contribute substantially to the development of the rural economy in the country. A lot has been heard about the urgent need for cooperative authorities not to be lost in this bill. And I wonder: Is there a greater blow to the managing authorities than the total lack of confidence that farmers themselves have on cooperatives? Ladies and gentlemen, there is an undeniable and real need for cooperatives to change radically. We do not hesitate to see reality in the faces and we also do not hesitate to intervene effectively. The agricultural cooperatives have come to synchronize their step with the new scientific data and to prevent global developments that run at a glowing rate. It has been heard by many colleagues in these two days, colleagues in counties with significant agricultural activity or counties primarily with agricultural activity, the need for progress, for research and innovation. This is not going to happen with the attitudes of yesterday, which wanted agricultural cooperatives in a constant search for political patronage. It is not going to be done by the loving state who, on the one hand, gave them the subsidies and, on the other hand, the ballot bag. This is over, ladies and gentlemen. We dare and give our farmers the right to decide the autonomous path towards their emancipation. We are making an effort to convince them at last to deal with the cooperatives. You talked about education, and we wondered where it would happen. Find out who? Who are we going to train, ladies and gentlemen? Our farmers do not care. Our farmers are getting old. They're ageing our villages. Our roots are getting old. I have for many years been responsible for the integrated rural development programmes, both in Corinth and in the Peloponnese, for many years, the OPACH and the LEADER. And indeed, our farmers dared to become hoteliers. Doesn't it surprise you? How have our farmers dared to be hoteliers and they dare not be partners anymore? Do they have a terrific prerogative? Let's try and find the dreadful partners, ladies and gentlemen. Participation of investors in a mixed scheme. Another subject that has been adequately raised in our debate. Ideological approaches, ideological approaches, horrific syndrome. A part of the opposition is reacting. Others don't want any investors. SYRIZA wants them as they had the law of 2016, decorative. One comment: You did not bother to look into the scientific literature on empirical research - Kyrikopoulos 2004, Kalogeras 2013 - which deals with alternative models of cooperative organisation, such as the one with investors. Do you know what the investigations showed? They showed that in these models there is a better targeting and orientation of market needs and that is why they achieved better performances for the partners. I don't know where you found the scientific data and a statement like this is being adopted. It's beyond me. We call on cooperatives to take responsibility for making modern development action levers to gain the strength to promote cooperation and innovation. Close their ears to political patronages, wherever they come from and follow the path that cooperatives have drawn up with good practice in our country. Those who do not seek collaborative movements, as heard in this Chamber, do not think that this bill is aimed at bankers, but believe that it is directed at farmers. In cooperatives who have dared to go out to the international markets and know that, to do so, we need to build extensive distribution networks, high marketing costs, research, certification and quality assurance and high production capacity. That is why this small size, which has been heard many times in this Chamber, is transformed into an insurmountable obstacle, because it is linked to high production costs, high transaction costs, low innovation capacity, increased financing costs and inability to attract capital. We trust that our farmers and our agricultural products have value in both the appropriate liberal and spacious context will create the much-conscious added value, both for themselves and for the Greek economy. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we can be competitive internationally in terms of quality, but for this to happen there is only one way to strengthen cooperation. What I said yesterday many times and I was glad to hear it today and many colleagues in this House. We have to stop working as a unit and become a team. Agricultural cooperatives must recover their lost credibility and pass the message of a new, more efficient culture. They need it themselves, they need it. This bill is moving in the right direction, and I therefore recommend that it be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u475	Thank you, too. In order not to be a bad guy - you're also working fathers - I would like to ask you for something. I'm not doing this for myself, Mr. Catarini. I think it's my obligation. I can stay up here night. Think of the workers who have kneeled too, the minister who took it off his own forty-eight hours. A moment ago, we agreed, Mr. Apostleu?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u476	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u477	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u478	You guys can have a good time. Mr. Panas said it well. Mrs. Gennamas has spoken. You've got a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u479	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to start with the positive ones, because we need to say positive ones too. I have to acknowledge, in the eight months that we have wasted the life of this parliamentary term of the government, that it may be the first time, Mr President, that a bill has come to Parliament, in which there are no sudden amendments. All the amendments were debated in committee, adopted and analysed in detail. Mr Vorides, unfortunately, is a lightning exception in relation to his colleagues. And I would like to believe that a good omen for the government and its extrapolation, which unfortunately brings at least ten last-minute amendments to every bill. And that is very good, Minister, and I must acknowledge it to you. That's where the good ends, though, isn't it? Of course, as we are talking about the amendments, we, as the rapporteur has said, also agree on the amendment on tolerability - we think it is very important, if we also take into account the destruction in olive oil this year - and also, of course, the amendment regulating, at last, the issue with the responsibilities of the administrations, which are being destroyed, and are unfortunately threatened with a personal disaster, not only financially, but also without having any responsibility and, of course, the extension of Law 4537/2018 in relation to the legal 4061/2012 for the management of agricultural parcels by the inhabitants of regions with locality and unemployment conditions, but also this should be checked if they really go to people who need social criteria. Of course, and for the amendment on forest cooperatives, Mr Minister, you were right to say that it does not fall within your competence, but come on, and tomorrow, Mr Theodorakou's multi-brand plan in Article 24 has an article on forest cooperatives. Not everyone seems as sensitive as you are, is it? Of course, for the amendment to the Central Cooperatives, our language has become short-sighted. And Mr. Panas and other MPs from the party have told us that. We want to believe that you will consider it. We think, Mr President, that this bill was wronged by the government and also by the juncture. Unfortunately, most of the time in this two-day debate has been consumed on different issues, in addition to what has been absolutely superficial, in our view, with no efficiency and no prospect - and that is the most important thing we are facing in the government - to give some solution - to the cooperative movement and the agricultural and livestock world. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And that is what happens, Minister, at a time when we see that, unfortunately, the omens are not good in the economy. You see what happens with the Stock Exchange in February with 11 billion losses, you see what happens with the spreads ejected in a week. We see what the Financial Council's estimates of growth rates are, which say that it can reach 1% below what your colleague, Mr Georgiadis, said, had said in the budget two months ago and when products are threatened with low prices. I am sure that you have also read today's article of the newspaper "NAYTTERIC", which invites you to copy a royal decree. Look at the situation now, it urges you to adopt the Spanish Royal Decree, which protects producers with fines of EUR 1 million, so that they do not have selling prices below costs. It tells you that you here in the country say 'we can't do anything', but in Spain they do something and they try. We therefore want to believe that next time we will see similar initiatives from you to ensure product prices. We will be here to remind you of the main reason why you are in this ministry, which is to ensure the income and dignity of farmers, farmers and all the people of the primary sector in our country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, too. Mr. Apostleu has the floor from SYRIZA for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, Minister, what came out of the four-day committee debates and two days in plenary is basically one, that in no case should individuals enter the cooperatives with the right to decide on management. It is, I would say to you, now repressed, the international experience of cooperation on this subject, as is another provision, that one member has one vote. This is a democratic process, which particularly characterises cooperation throughout the world. Minister, why are you so rushing to create institutions, indifferent to their democratic legitimacy? You know, you are following the old process and, over time, your proposals will also be extinguished because they are not based on democratic legitimacy. The non-existent cooperative culture exposes us internationally rather than the lack of place in the institutions, i.e. a specific chair. Our non-existence in the cooperative process is what exposes us. Mr President, we did not need to bring in a new law on cooperatives, because what was happening as problems and had to speed up their resolution was the winding-up process, it was the huge overcompensation that exists. And I stand in particular at the active cooperatives. At all costs, Minister, these cooperatives must continue to operate from the moment they can - and indeed so - and meet their basic operating costs. So there you committed yourself that the PQH will come to the committee, not just to inform us, but to end up being ready, to all of us, to table a specific proposal to deal with the big problem, the laundry that is currently being done on the part of PQH, which concerns a great agricultural property, which is absolutely essential to the area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing down, Minister, from here on out. You referred to our own legislation in your place. From what so far at least has come to my attention, I would like to say to you that your institutional initiative was not something that jeopardizes your function at the Ministry of Rural Development. I am referring, first of all, to the famous amendment that you have reverted to a decision by the Council. before drying the ink, as was the case with the interbranch organisations, where you reduced the percentage to 15%. This is a fragmentation. This retains power in general from the specific bodies in order to respond to their problems. Of course, today's bill is over. We expect the next initiative you announced not to be, Minister, in the same pattern.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u482	Thank you very much Mr Apostle. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their participation in the debate and their criticisms. I would like to thank, in particular, the rapporteur of the New Democracy for the excellent work he has done in presenting our bill. Let me start now from the last Mr. Apostleus said. I want to assure you that all my legislative initiatives will be in the same spirit. So we shall proceed in this direction, because that is the spirit and philosophy of our Government. It is a spirit and philosophy which has been clearly and clearly exposed to the Greek people and has received its approval. It would be absolutely inconsistent and undemocratic if I did, Mr Apostleu, what you are calling me to do. That is, in fact, to make no difference to what has been the subject of our agreement with the Greek people and to join your views, which have been voted against and in any case we do not agree with them. First of all, allow me to convey a message from the State Secretary, Mrs Arabatzi. He authorized me for that. He's a patient, he doesn't have a coronary, but that's why he couldn't be around us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u484	Passing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u485	Now, something important will be done in order to create this resistance and the objection specifically from the left-wing wings, but I will also say the populist right in our Parliament. We'll do something good. In other words, to tell you the truth, as I understand it, you have opened up a very long debate focusing on the matter of the private investor. In my opinion, the major part in the intervention we make in our bill is not that. The major thing is the great discretion and freedom we allow the cooperatives to decide in their statutes the terms of their cooperation. This is the important intersection and differentiation from what Mr Arachovitis described as a paternalistic model. He confessed, he said it was a heavy regulatory model of 2016 and explained the reasons, which had to be done in 2016, in his view. I pointed out with information, which is unquestionable, the consequences of this serious regulation in the Act of 2016. In fact, the 2016 Act has led to a reduction in the intervention of cooperatives in the country's rural economy. I'm not saying it's the only clue. I never blame anyone, as you know, on arguments. Obviously, there are other elements that have to do more extensively with sizes of the rural economy and production, but certainly the 2016 law is one of the elements - the institutional, regulatory, regulatory and regulatory elements - which played a negative role in the development of the cooperatives the next two, three years of its implementation. So - and there I did not hear much - it was actually on this point: we had to lighten this heavyframe. We are giving more regulatory freedom to the cooperatives themselves, and in this way, we are making the framework of the association more attractive. I did not hear an answer on that. But I have heard a lot about what is going to happen to private investors who are waiting to join the cooperatives. I want to confess something to you. I don't even know one of those. There has been no expression of any interest. I hope it will be expressed. At the moment, however, we have no such issue. But you have a great concern about this, which you have also expressed. Mr President, let me share a thought with you. If you read the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, there is an article which forbids written texts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u486	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u487	The speaker in Parliament may not be spoken by a written text. Why does the Rules of Procedure have this? In fact, it used to be: If you remember, there had to be so-called'speakers', that is, actually, to change the speakers to the parties. Why did the Rules of Procedure have this economy then? It was in order not to have a text prepared by the house or by the office, to listen to what the previous speaker has said - hence the rotation of speakers - and the dialogue is alive so that there can be an answer to the arguments and that a dialectic dialogue can be built. Unfortunately, here in this period, where we have heard too much, a monologue has actually been heard. They were parallel monologues. One is saying the same and the same arguments, but without answering the arguments of others. For example, 'the bodies that do not want', I heard it twenty times. But I didn't hear any argument. Because I answered this and said: But the two main cooperative bodies want. In this respect, no one has said to me 'no, sir, you are wrong because they do not want'. Someone didn't tell me that. They continued to tell me throughout the debate: 'The bodies they do not want'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u488	Just like you go on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u489	Please, Mr. Comrade. Let him go. He didn't interrupt anyone that long.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u490	I, as you know, am tolerant of vacation. As long as they don't take my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u491	You did one and the others do one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u492	With Mrs Manolakou, we also have a historic disagreement. I'll tell you later. They say now: 'It is the occurrence of privatisation'. How is privatisation, first of all, dependent on the free will of the parties? So they have to decide themselves to put the investor inside. We don't put it on them. It would be privatization if I had to say: 'There is someone coming in and coming in'. This is privatization: in a public company, I come and give it. So how is this privatization, when it depends on the partnership's decision? Secondly, what kind of privatization and sales is it, because they have a minority? I now hear answers: 'Yes, but because they are not interested and because they will be bought...'. Are they going to be bought? What does it mean "to be repurchased"? So, they don't know their interest and they're going to buy? Their interest is their cooperative business. Are they going to take over? And in any case - can I say otherwise - if they want the law to be repurchased will prevent them from being taken over? A thousand vehicles and techniques will not be found, which are already there, in order to achieve this result? "But, you know, they don't participate." How do they not participate? They don't participate in the administration of their property? So, they're irresponsible? That's paternalism. They don't know the state, they know the parliament, the legislator knows, the Arachovite knows Vorides. But those in the field and at work don't know and they can't decide. I heard after that: 'The property of cooperatives, which they put in hand'. Then I hear the next contradiction. "Yes, but in the confiscated cooperatives no one will enter them." So, for the confiscated and their property, we don't care, because nobody's going to them. The others who have a clean fortune are stupid to go and give it without the corresponding price? And that answers the next criticism. It says: "Is it possible to determine in the statute the value of the shareholder private investor?". He will, in other words, put a capital of 10 million into a large cooperative and we will give him a portion, which will do a thousand euros. Does that make sense to you financially? So tell me to understand. How do you think about that now? I heard after that: 'It' - it says - 'their physics'. What does it mean to ‘aller their naturality’? That is, in fact, against a theoretically constructed shape of physiognomy, what matters is not the viability of the cooperative and we can support it in order to withstand competition, but to maintain a general nature. That's what it's like. That's what's not really right! It doesn't matter whether the time cooperatives close. It does not matter whether the cooperatives are making a smaller and smaller turnover. It does not matter whether the cooperatives represent fewer and fewer cooperatives. The physiognomy, don't lose! There's the naturality to put it up on the bottom, to look at it and to enchant it! But there's nothing else. So I have not heard any arguments in this regard. I didn't hear any argument, because you don't trust the partners. I have not heard any argument, because you do not respect the autonomy of private will. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Look out, I told you the antivirus again. Uh, there's international competition. Um, there's the entrance to big capital. Um, there's the entry of commercial companies. Um, these create a difficult competitive environment. Give them a tool so they can handle it? Answer: No, don't give them no tools.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u493	You're reducing members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u494	So, they're pushed and accumulated. You have always confessed that there is enormous difficulty. We say that we are potentially giving them a weapon so that they can respond to this difficulty, and you say 'no', but we confess to the cooperative idea. I would also like to say my historic disagreement, because you said about farmers in the Soviet Union. Just to point out that after the '17 Bolshevik revolution, the Russian Civil War followed. What is little known is that the Russian civil service, in fact, had the battle of three armies. He had the Bolshevik army, the revolutionary army, had the white army, which was the tsarists, and had the green army, which was the farmers. The farmers opposed the Bolshevik regime, especially because it was then following collectiveisation policies. In fact, then there was a conflict...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u495	You don't know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u496	Mrs Manolakou, these historic issues are very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u497	Too much and we've studied them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u498	Me, too. We may not have the exact same sources, but I am very interested in this part of history. In fact, then, there was traditionally the analysis made by Lenin, mainly, but, in general, Marxism - Leninism, the following approach: In the end, objectively, the agricultural class would conflict with the rising working class at the time, because it was objectively not a revolutionary force of history, which was, in theory, this working class. So dealing with the Bolsheviks toward the rural world was a historical criticism, because they could not be seen as allies in the dialect they were trying to build. That's all for the story. Of course, a lot has changed since then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u499	Farmers are not single. They're tiny... (not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u500	No, that's a later interpretation. Then they didn't have that. I have also heard criticism of the subject of education. We haven't read them well in the bill again. Education goes to the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives. Therefore, it is not that the education bill has not been provided for. Of course he has a prediction. But it goes to this instrument that is to be formed. In my opinion, this is the right instrument to do education, because the cooperatives who have these small-scale courses can undertake what kind of training? So we really want a central body to take over the training. I will also tell you about something I have heard many times. It says: No personal detention is filed against members of the cooperative. And why is it not indicted? What is no personal detention for? For legal obligations of the cooperative to third parties. What part of our legal order is there now a personal detention for civil claims? Nowhere! Should we put it specifically in the cooperatives? So, if anyone owes anything to someone for a loan, is he being held in? If he owes rents, is he still in custody? So, for legal obligations, is it to be self-sufficient? Is that what the Greek Solution tells us? Is there no personal detention for the cooperatives specifically when in all our legal order there is no personal detention? The money laundering, where did you get it? First of all, money laundering is criminal. So he has an independent criminal situation and is persecuted as a crime. It's not personal detention. Personal detention is a means of enforced civil claims.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u501	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u502	What are we talking about here? We're just talking about something. Now, let me say a few things very quickly about the amendments. With regard to the amendments on fraud, I have seen that there is a wider consensus. Mr Arachovitis, I am anxious to hear SYRIZA's position on the amendment on the responsibility for administering agricultural cooperative organisations. I'll listen to her in a minute. Now, as far as the regulations of the IMPs are concerned, Mr Panas has read relatively diligently, I have to say, I have to say, resolution 19 of the SAEP. However, you will see that in reality the 2019 decision is that there is no explicit exception to the provisions of a 2017 law on matters regulated by Law 2190/1994. In fact, what is requested is an explicit exception, but in accordance with the provisions of Article 107 of the Constitution, from the specific provisions contained in Law 2190/1994. We are introducing this exception and I think that our regulation as it has covered the provisions of Article 107. We have not received any comment on this issue. So I have appreciated your concern, because I have read the decision of the AACC, and I tell you that it is the right arrangement. He won't have a problem. We have been talking about extensions. We have said about the launching solution for inactives. And I'm ending with the ministerial amendments. With regard to the parliamentary amendments, I would like to say that I consider the criticism we are accepting here on the matter of the members of the forest cooperatives. I don't have the opportunity to sign everything, and I don't have that responsibility. It would have escaped the mandate that I have both the Greek people and the Prime Minister. What I want to make clear is that forest cooperatives now belong to the Ministry of the Environment, because that is where the Directorate-General for Forestry has gone. For the time Tina Birbil and George Papandreou went there. Whether or not to stay there is another conversation that we are not going to do now. But then the Directorate-General for Forestry from the Ministry of Rural Development went to the Ministry of the Environment. Hence all these issues that you see are now being set up, which, in my opinion, would have been better regulated if the system were differently organised. But right now, I don't have that kind of competence. I have to make a correction to Mr Karasmanis because I did say that his amendment had not been tabled in plenary. It was tabled in plenary and not in committee. He also pointed out to me - and I am grateful to him - that the statement that farmers had been suspended certain debts from the Ministry of Finance did not relate to matters of insurance, but to matters of general reassurance. I also thank Mr Karasmanis for this amendment - although I do not accept it for the reasons I have explained - I thank him for giving me the opportunity to think about the case - which of course we should see what covers and I will discuss it with the ELGA on what the cases are - when the damage has occurred, the farmer has become the beneficiary of an insurance policy, has not paid him this premium, but the time has come to pay the premium next year, as it takes a year from the time the damage is due until the time the premium is lodged. This could be the subject of special arrangements. So I thank Mr Karasmanis for raising the matter with his amendment, but in that sense I am saying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u503	It's happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u504	I'll see. I'll talk to ELGA, and I'll see it. I know that Mr Apostlelos is more stringent on this matter and indeed the ELGA is quite difficult. So all this wants a careful discussion. Now, as far as the rental of the production facilities is concerned, I've said it. No, I'm not accepting it. The workers' insurance rights are the JRC's amendment. That's not mine at all, because it's completely insurance. So that's Brutsi's issue, but I'm going to put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u505	Bruts said it's yours, it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u506	I'll put it on Brutsi. As far as matters are concerned, the workers of the agricultural cooperatives in liquidation are concerned. Again, in my opinion, it is not mine, but in any case, because it concerns workers in agricultural cooperatives, it is obviously being held in this sense, and I will put it, as I will put it, the change in the use of land in the region of Lower Suli Marathon. I also hold it to see Mr Kegeroglou's amendment on Castelli and the legacy. I accepted the management of unattractive productive animals. I have spoken about this, as I have spoken about not accepting the amendment on central cooperative associations. That is why I am closing the subject of the amendments. Now, what's the future? Look, what we have done right now and I want to sum up what our strategy is. Mr. Apostle is always a source of inspiration and confrontation. In this sense, the remarks he makes are very fertile. Mr Apostle, our strategy tells us that we want to end with a market organisation cycle. What's the first thing we did? Interbranch organisations. What have you done, Mr. Apostleu, to interprofessional organizations? Four and a half years you haven't done anything at all, and you went...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u507	All our inter-professionals had not just moved forward, but had been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u508	May I? Four and a half years, Mr. Apostleu, you have not legislated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u509	Where are the interprofessional peach?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u510	Four and a half years, nothing happened at all. You have legislated for 15 days with a simple ministerial decision by Mr Arachovitis before the elections, to reach agreement! We have legislated not by ministerial decision, but by law in the first three months for interbranch organisations, in fact changing the institutional framework of operation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u511	And why did you change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u512	I'll tell you why I changed it. For the reason you didn't want me to change it. For the reason you didn't want to change it, Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u513	Mr President, it is not my fault now. I said that I accept holidays, but no time is taken away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u514	You're running in dictator.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u515	Listen, because you say the dictation, I will tell you this: the law always has many dads, but one mother, Parliament. It is Parliament that produces the legislation. I, therefore, did not take the legislation out, Mr Arachovitis, like you, by ministerial decision. I brought her here openly, in public dialogue, to talk, to know all and who dictated and who did not dictate and what dictated each other. So here I am telling you straight away that I have had an institutional dialogue with the interbranch organisations and their collective body. I have heard what they were asking for and one of the basic things they were asking for was to reduce the rate of representation so that they can be formed. Because I did this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - since we do not have a lady here now - the interprofessional feta was founded. This is why the interprofessional peach is being founded next week. That is why the interprofessionality of citrus fruits has been established. Within a few months we have three new major interprofessionals, while these had been frozen on your own day. Let me ask now. You are experienced in rural and years of work and are curing this, unlike me, the original ignorant one. So, you experienced so many years, didn't you know what had to be done? Of course you did. Why didn't you? You didn't do it because you didn't want to. Why do you not believe in the institutions of interbranch organizations, because you did not want to support it, because you did not want it to be done and it did not happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u516	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u517	Mr. Apostle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u518	We're done with interprofessionals. Let's go down there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u519	How are we done? Have you broken a space and said it's a success?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u520	All right, you've said it. Why are you upset? Yeah, it's a big success.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u521	In the committee you have said that too. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u522	What can we do now? Don't worry about it. So you sit where you are and I sit where I stand. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u523	Today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u524	Today. There's always temporary in life. No permanent. But let's go further, though. Our second intervention today is the agricultural cooperatives for the organization of the market. It happened today. By the way, if I remember correctly, it took you two years to legislate on agricultural cooperatives and we finished the agricultural cooperatives within the seven-month period and not incompletely, because I hear that too. The law on agricultural cooperatives has been lifted for a month in consultation, it has spent fifteen days, it has still remained a twenty-day consultation and discussion and there has been a full and comfortable debate in Parliament. What exactly do you want to do? How much exactly do you want us to take it? So what's the deceleration you want here? We have also finished our first intervention with the agricultural cooperatives. We built what we wanted to build. We'll see where it starts how it works. What's beyond? What are we supposed to do? We did something else because we didn't stay on it. We decreased within the first seven months and taxation on collective agricultural structures. We've taken the tax. So, here's our policy. What's left? I'll tell you. There is also a number of things about market organization. Firstly, we will discuss, see and consider whether an additional legal framework is needed for producer organisations. This is an extremely technical, very little policy debate, because most of it is established in the framework of the regulation. However, it has technical data, which one needs to study and see about the issue of producer organisations and the relationships of producer organisations with other collective agricultural schemes, particularly with agricultural cooperatives, which are their relationship, how they do not include their VDUs. So there's a conversation like that, and she'll look into it, and we'll see if we need to do something. We'll move on in the next few minutes. I hope that the provisions we have put forward will be taken into account in order for the two main cooperative bodies to proceed with a single, that is to say the National Agricultural Cooperatives Association. I would like to say this to you, because I have heard this, and it must not be said, because it is extremely bad. It says that there is no representation - I think Mrs Manolaku said so - for those who are under the EUR 500,000. It's not true. There is the possibility of being represented as soon as...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u525	Possibility not mandatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u526	Let them gather two hundred and a half thousand, agree that this is their representative and they are represented. So it's not that they're not represented. They are represented only if they are together so that there is a fairness in the issue of economic correlation. That is, therefore, absolutely right. Anything else would violate this initial basic principle that we have set ourselves, that there must be a relationship with market organisation and intervention through turnover. What else are we going to do? Mrs Kounavia, who is a servant and I thank her very much for her support and assistance in all the work that the Ministry is doing at the moment, has been instructed to proceed with the clearance of the register. What does that mean? I heard about the registries by the way. Did you make the record? The register has been built since 2011. How do you say you made the record? That's terrible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u527	PASOK again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u528	That's terrible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u529	Say it publicly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u530	Since when does the record work?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u531	What do I want to say about that? So I heard that the register created it by the law of 2016. But the register has been built since 2011. Watch out. I have also heard Mr Apostle say that we have begun the clearance procedure. How did you start the liquidation process? Is one solved? Have you erased a partnership from the registry, so we can get some rest of the poor record and not have to look at four thousand inactive people and end up dealing with those who exist? Did you erase one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u532	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u533	Your political choice was not to erase one and one of my political choices is to give the mandate to proceed with the clearance process of the register to clean up this whole thing. So that's the future. There will be special arrangements - because you are well-comprising here, and I will say that the concern is correct - for the liquidation of inactive cooperatives. What we have been discussing and which you have tried to deal with with with with with this nice company you have created, which you have not set up a board for two years - this company I say - we will deal with it with special arrangements for clearers. In any case, the question raised by Mr Apostleos, we all understand that it is important and important. Four and a half years to point out, of course, that nothing has happened about this great and important issue of the progress and resolution of working cooperatives, but also of very great debts. I just want to ask how many people have been set up in the four and a half years when you were in the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u534	I must have the time to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u535	So, a huge issue that exists...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u536	You brought a 2014 law...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u537	Mr Apostle, as you know, because I like the matter, I can go to the other half, but I'm worried I'll hurt you. So this is a big issue that really needs to be discussed and we need to see how it can be addressed. Of course, we should know that we are in terms of regulations, so that we can be on the ground, in the field of private banking law. That's where we are. So, having knowledge of this given fact, we have to deal with this issue and see what best we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u538	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u539	Of course. There we are and he moves like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u540	You threw an organization...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u541	Let go of that. Don't go to that now. You've been taking me too long. Let's move on with the data I have now. There is a big issue that has been raised by many. It's right as an observation. His treatment requires complex actions. Let me just take something out of the debate: black trafficking and very low movement of products through cooperatives, especially because farmers feel, firstly, because of the high taxation that they do not have an interest in moving their products, because they are white-handed because they are made, because they are taxed and therefore black-handed. I mean - and I say it to all tons - that this is an issue that we will put pressure on as much as we can. On all sides, it is absolutely unacceptable to move black products from a competition point of view, from the point of view of tax compliance, from the point of view of - I shall say - even the reinforcement and quality of products. So this is a big issue. I hear you say 'give tax incentives for integration'. So what are you telling me? Different tax treatment of cooperative farmers than non-cooperatives. I say to you that, as you are saying, it is clear that this cannot be done because it is an insult to the principle of tax equality. You cannot treat the same profession differently depending on whether a person is cooperative or not. But I have to tell you that I am thinking - and I will see how to end up with this - how to find a way to increase the income of cooperative farmers and to create some kind of incentive, but not of that nature. We will strengthen cooperatives with bank financing, obviously with the Rural Development Programme, and there will be an initiative that will stimulate merger. To finish with the strategic issue, which was raised by Mera25, and we discussed it a little, if the little one is nice, if the big one is nice for the conventional agriculture, and all this nice debate. Let's get this straight. The small, as it shapes, if it does not have specific conditions that allow it to function and be effective, simply does not work. It's exterminating inside the competition. There may be certain cooperatives that are small and for specific reasons to build comparative advantages - I can think of specific products, for example, specialized, protected, especially, PDO, which may not have large productions, but have comparative production advantage - but if we talk about large productions, the small one simply does not exist. This is the international reality. Until you make the world revolution - I hope, of course, it will be a nightmare to return to the colloss or something - until this is the case, international competition and the conditions under which the global economic system is organised are those. Therefore, yes, we must strengthen mergers, mergers, larger shapes, economies of scale, investments in the space, improve competitiveness through requirements, improve productivity. This is all the strategy that needs to be unfolded. Part of this strategy is obviously also an incentive for mergers between cooperatives and we need to look at these issues. I conclude by saying this: I obviously heard the debate and intervened on the big issue that we now have. Mr Arachovitis did - I would say - a calm and moderate placement in his dentistry, in which he said that it is pointless to raise tons or discriminate against who follows a patriotic and non-patriotic line and does not have a division. That was, if I understood correctly, the spirit of his position. Mr Arachovitis, I will not disagree first, but all this is finally judged on the ground. The legislative act will be voted on in Parliament. I told you that this was the instrument with which we can today close the borders and defend them. So you have to tell us this. This act of legislation, will you vote on it, yes or no? Because, in the field, everything is judged. If you eventually end up telling us 'not in practice legislative terms, but you do well to close the borders', I beg your pardon, but you say something completely contradictory, because these are two fully-fledged policies. All the rest, the summit, support for Europe, claims, attitude towards Turkey are things that the Foreign Ministry will handle, and obviously the Prime Minister himself, since this is what is going on here. Turning back to the question of cooperatives and closing down, I hope that this bill will be voted for by Parliament. As you know, I'm not always a consensual fan. On the other hand, I think that divisions also make a clear picture and have a character in which we all know where we stand, so in the end we will be measured tomorrow. Will the cooperatives go better or worse? Will the agricultural product be increased or not? Are we going to have a bigger turnover or not? There we will be measured and we will see, although this intervention has contributed or not contributed to this objective, obviously. So, in this direction, I think I have explained on the one hand the way in which we strategically develop our plan to organise the market. I would like to clarify and say that this is in a clear and clear way in favour of producers. Producers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, Mrs Manolakou, who are not cooperatives, who are not in organised collective schemes, who do not exploit the potential of the law, are obviously in a weak negotiating position. So what it has to do is because so far this obvious has not become a reality. On the contrary, I think that, in so far as Parliament decides so, and obviously with the support of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, we are moving another step forward in our strategy for primary development, rural development, livestock development in Greece and I am sure that we are moving forward in a bright future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u542	Thank you, too. It was very interesting, so I left the time. The whole farm was watching. I know that some people want you to answer, but you can't, because if you answer it, the Minister will want you to answer it and then you will want to answer it again. The debate is closed with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u543	A clarification I would like to make, not an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u544	Let me hear it, Mr. Villarde.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u545	We did not talk about something, as Mr Vorides presented it. We asked two questions. The first question was whether a member of the board of directors of the agricultural cooperative is also a member of the agricultural cooperative, then he is not accountable, even if he has committed criminal offences such as laundering, due to huge public debts? That was a specific question for the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u546	Where does he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u547	From Article 10.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u548	Where? Read where he says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u549	Good to read it. “There is no personal detention of the members of the agricultural cooperative for legal obligations of the agricultural cooperative to third parties...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u550	Money laundering is a crime?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u551	We are asking questions, Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u552	So I answer you. It is a crime and it is not a legal act, so it is not subject to the provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u553	That was our question. It's simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u554	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and three teachers attending the Parga High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Agricultural Cooperatives and other provisions' is adjourned. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, forty-one articles, four amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u555	As long as you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u556	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u557	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Agricultural Cooperatives and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u558	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u559	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-04-S1-commons.u560	With the consent of the House at 19.55 the meeting for tomorrow, Thursday, March 5, 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, "Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Political development perspective of local government bodies, regulation of matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions".
