ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 19-11-2020 authorisation, the minutes of the LG's meeting of Thursday 19 November 2020 were confirmed by the Bureau.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 23 November 2020. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 151/13-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA Deputy East Attica - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Spirtzis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Association of Primary Health Care Structures in Eastern Attica". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 157/13-11-2020 topical question by MP Argolidos of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Payment of a Christmas gift to the health staff of the public hospitals in the country". 3. The Question No 166/16-11-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The great disasters of the severe weather in Crete". 4. The 155/13-11-2020 topical question by Congressman I Athens of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos to the Minister of Health, on "Serious Problems in the ICUs of the country - Complaints". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 158/13-11-2020 topical question by MP Kavala of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Soltana Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Health, on "Problems to track cases in Kavala - lack of planning for mass tests in the population". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on "Directly create new MS and renovation and upgrading of the old Venizelos Hospital Building". 3. Under No 168/16-11-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'The government chooses at all costs not to strengthen public hospitals'. 4. The 164/16-11-2020 question by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Let the EEAS be able to prescribe and compensate the diagnostic test for SARS COVID -19". 5. The Question No 163/16-11-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: ‘City recovery facility’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 13/1/5-10-2020 was asked and requested by the SYRIZA MP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Number of beds and other issues of the Ministry of Health". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Service of insured - retired ECA in remote areas, islands and mountain municipalities". 3. The question by No 382/12-10-2020 asked by SYRIZA MP Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Entermination of the newly established CIVID clinic -19 of the General Hospital of Chalkida with the necessary medical staff". 4. The question, under number 527/109/14-10-2020, was asked and requested to submit documents of the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Inadmissible indulgence on the damage caused by the restrictive measures to producers of aromatic plants". 5. The question by No 387/12-10-20 of the SYRIZA Member of State - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "For health, safety and upgrading of workers' working rights (bicycle drivers) in the distribution and transport of products and articles". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General of the Government informs him of the six questions which will be asked today. The third, with number 165/16-11-2020, is a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The protection of the historical location of the Cantanos Regional Unit (P.E.) Chania and the dangers of the expansion of the quarry zone in the region" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. We are starting the debate with the first 153/13-11-2020 topical question of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "State of the art: While all Europe is investing in remote heating we throw millions of invested capital into the work of district heating to make a turn in the past." Mr Nikolaos Tagaras will be answered by the present State Secretary for the Environment and Energy. Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, one of the first actions of the government in the context of the violent liberation of Western Macedonia was to stop the work of district temperatures in Florina, as you know. This is a multipathy project - it is true - but integrated into the ESDP and by an active contract. In recent years, he had to enter the city. So the government decided to dismantle the contraction and cancel the work. Yesterday I participated in the meeting of the Regional Council of Western Macedonia, where we discussed cutting-edge technologies for hydrogen, an excellent work, innovative, ambitious piloting throughout Europe, but saying that this is the way science is, and so we need to move forward. It is, however, a oxymomile, on the one hand, to discuss cutting-edge technologies and, on the other, to turn to the past by cutting off the heaters when the whole of Europe is investing in district heating. I shall mention many examples in my denology. Suffice it to say that the connection between the district heating networks and the lignite plants is not a one-way road. Networks, district heating, it's like the word, networks, it's technology agnostic, which works in the form of heat regardless of the source. In the 20th century in Greece and the rest of the world, these networks are fuelled with heat, produced from fossil fuels such as lignites, coal, oil. North Europe and America and Canada have been turning old dirty networks into district heating networks with modern green networks. I would remind you that Greece has committed itself to the withdrawal of gas before 2050. If the solution chosen to cover the energy gap left behind by ligniteification is covered by natural gas facilities, I fear that these regions that have been delayed over time will again be faced with the same problem. This reminds us, as in the 2000s, when all the rulers and local players said that lignite will exist indefinitely, the government today creates this illusion in the prefecture of Florinas at least. After that, the Minister responsible asks and we want to know what the total cost of the work of district heating to date is in construction and supplies, that is to say, what we are flying, including the amount of economic claims, the claims, the contractor, because the contract will be terminated. The second is whether the carbon footprint of the natural gas installation for domestic use has been calculated compared to that of the district heating with any heat source and when the gas release process in western Macedonia will begin. The last thing that is not included in the question is if people in the region have been informed that gas is coming to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I want to thank Mrs Perka for her question. The transition to the post-linguistic age is, in fact, a crucial issue for Florinna and other energy regions, as for the whole country. I'll start my answer from the end. This week, on Monday, November 16th, the invitation from the Management Service of the REANEC Programme for the development of the network of low-pressure and medium-pressure natural gas in the town of Florina was posted to us. The project concerns the development of the natural gas network in Florina, namely the development of some 40 km of medium pressure network and seventy km of low pressure network. The new network will connect hundreds of new consumers, households and businesses, and the project’s total estimated cost is EUR 17.44 million and is co-financed by European resources. So this is a project which has just been published and we are now discussing the withdrawal, at the same time as we are talking about and there are various positions on violent demilitarisation. For the fullest information, however, about the National Representation and any follow-up to the debate to mention the following: You know, too, because you are in the area, very well that the work of district heating in Florinas, in fact, started from a study in 2006. In this context, the contract between the Municipality of Florina was signed through JHA on the one hand and PPC on the other. After many years of delays, approvals, tenders were concluded in 2014 with contractor for the construction of the project. For its part, PPC would proceed to install equipment for the provision of thermal power to the district heating and Florina from the Atmospheric Power Station of Melitis. In 2017, the project was included in the Operational Programme for the 2014-2020 programming period. Eleven distinct sub-projects and services should be implemented in order to implement the project. Today the first sub-project is also compatible. It concerns the transport pipeline and the construction of pumping facilities, as well as the reserve pump. At the same time, a part of sub-project 6 has been moved on concerning sustainable and archaeological work. The evidence suggests that the project had not gone that far. However, with our decision here in the autumn of 2019 to liberate domestic electricity generation and close the Meliti Atmos power station by 2023, the data changed. Without the operation of the station there will be no thermal energy required for the operation of the district heating, so the project cannot proceed to its original form. However, I would point out that in Florina there is no now-established district heating network or even a network at an advanced stage of construction that the ligniteification and closure of Meliti Station are now coming to deceive. We're talking about something very different. As far as the financial information you're asking is concerned, I will submit the relevant document of the Municipality of Florins. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to natural gas as a fuel for transition to the post-linguistic period, but also to your other questions, I shall refer to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is clear that you have not answered the point of my question. You described my work. I know it very well, as well as sub-projects, and I had helped to promote it after many old ages, as I said. The issue today is another. The government has an environmental profile, and I have evidence that the country is not in line with its European obligations. It doesn't follow. Any policy we pursue must also look at trends. First, we invested some money. I know about 20 million at least. We're throwing it back and we're throwing money over a gas network with an end date? And I asked if they know, if you've informed the citizens. But I will mention the following: you know, Minister, that this is not a question of deflation - this is part - but coalification, that is, 0% natural gas, oil, lignite and so on. The forward abolition of lignite does not mean that the country is in line with its international obligations. A study by the European climate action network states that eleven of the eighteen European Union countries using coal do not have a plan compatible with the Paris Agreement. Four of them plan to switch from lignite coal to gas. You know who's inside them. It's Greece! Because we're really cutting the lignite and pushing the gas. I'm on it. There is no compatibility of investments with the European Regulation on sustainable investments. The Regulation does not consider investment to be viable in new gas combustion plants. You have to tell the world! In trilogy - because you spoke about European resources - European Commission, European Council, European Parliament is open and there is a lot of talk about whether natural gas projects will be financed from the Fair Transmission Fund. The European Commission, as part of an assessment of the Government's ESRB, points out: Investments in fossil gas may constitute inert capital. Taking into account the long-term objectives of the EU and the partially underdeveloped natural gas infrastructures in Greece, the country will benefit if any new infrastructure is a future proof for the country's adaptation to new clean technologies, not gas where it does not exist. Networks again, money again, thrown money again. The recent report by Bloomberg New Energy Finance considers the majority of the investments in gas that are planned in Greece to be unnecessarily energy-efficient and economically inefficient. Listen, Minister. This area has paid too much for the history of the country's electricity. They turned out villages for Greece to have light. The relocations and mines are still there and the residents are unpaid for the land they lost. And you're coming now and you're mocking people again, instead of moving on to an innovation. I'm telling you again. It's technology agnostics. It doesn't matter the district heating with what heat source it's going to work. Today they're lignites, tomorrow they'll be photovoltaic. Europe has inexhaustible sources. From the metro tunnels, they get heat for district heating, from the sea, from the sewage. We are envisioning a western Macedonian innovation centre. He paid for it dearly. We don't want to go back. Do not retreat investment funds so without any benefit to local society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I want to say that degrease has something to do with carbonisation and we are in a transition from a carbon era to a time when we want to go without carbon. However, this transition as a transitional stage also takes time to adapt and a lot of work to adapt. I respect the area, of course, and Florina. I would like to tell you that these changes and changes are made in consultation with local communities and self-government bodies, authorities and all interested parties. This obviously also applies to the crucial issue of the television heaters that you have raised in all the lignite municipalities. The solution to the extension of the natural gas network to connect the households and businesses of Florina was also approved by local society. However, given the difficult weather conditions in Florina, as well as the lack of an existing alternative to supply heating to the inhabitants of Florina, the municipality claimed the extension of the natural gas network there and the TENA adapted its development plan in this direction. This is a safe and more friendly choice from lignite to the environment. It is not entirely safe, it is a transitional period, from the operation of a lignite plant from other fuels, which helps to meet the thermal needs and reduce the municipal environmental footprint and reduce the family budget. In addition, it provides the possibility of using for the whole year and not only in the winter months. On the other hand, it is true that the green agreement in the European Union provides for a transition to climate neutrality in 2050, as you have rightly said, and a significant reduction in the use of natural gas. As we have seen recently, the criticality of natural gas is recognised as a transitional fuel, especially for countries such as Greece which have a high percentage of lignite. I would also remind you of the letter of eight Energy Ministers in May 2020 - then it was Mr Gerasios Thomas - where they stressed that each Member State is starting from a different starting point and under different circumstances and that the European strategy must provide a degree of flexibility in this transition, as I said before. The national energy and climate plan and the long-term strategy for the period 2030-2050 will make use of the natural gas infrastructure, as established in the national energy and climate plan and the long-term strategy for 2030-2050, to be used in future for transporting climate-neutral energy storage gas and others. Therefore, frustration and transition to climate neutrality, in order to be fair - as you rightly say - and balanced also requires interim solutions and transitional periods that will take into account the needs of the country, but also of the affected region, as well as the socio-economic consequences. In this direction we are moving by planning, together with the local communities, the transition to post-carbon age. We will continue in the same direction with design and solutions essential, solutions for real today's and tomorrow's needs for the citizens, with particular reference to the Greek region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u9	We move to the third with number 161/16-11-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The deafening" of the Government's development in Volos. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr. Tagaras. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary, both SYRIZA and New Democracy's argument always to promote the incineration of waste at the cement shops was 'but it is a very convenient solution, instead of burning oil, petcoke and coal, we burn waste. Thus, we eventually reduce emissions, as waste would produce emissions, reduce total emissions.” And they come to my hands of evidence that breaks down this argument, as based on a document from the Region of Thessaly, during the time that the GGEET at Vol burns RDF in its various forms the burning of petcoke and the burning of coal has not been reduced at all. This is shocking because it shows that the RDF does not burn down the RDF for cement production, but in practice for the subsidy. I will refer to some figures, that is, in 2015 we have a hundred and fifty thousand tons of petcoke, six thousand coal, which is growing in 2016, while burning RDF, at eighty-four thousand tons. In 2017 and 2018, it is reduced, with 2018 being a hundred twenty-one thousand tons, but increasing coal to thirty thousand tons. It balances the reduction of petcoke with coal and therefore the RDF is not substantiated for cement production. That's shocking, Mr. Undersecretary! It's shocking! I would like you to tell me your figures and I will extend to air pollution in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u11	Here, Mr. Tagaras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Arsenis for his question, but also for his constant interest in Volos. It is true that I have been involved very recently in such a question again about Volos. It is useful to highlight the problems and, of course, it must be our part of what is necessary to impose measures on us to investigate and impose measures and that is why we are here. First of all, the cement industry as a sector participates in the Emissions Trading Scheme, as revised by 2030 with the European Directive 2018/410. In the context of a reduction in the emissions of greenhouse gases established by the European Union and with regard to the cement industry, an energy-intensive sector, the use of biomass and alternative fuels is a key tool to reduce them. Secondly, this plant in Volos was licensed in 2014 for the possibility beyond conventional fuels such as coal and petcoke, controlled biomass combustion and alternative fuels, such as the RDF you mentioned. The amendments to the decision approving the environmental conditions of 2017 were approved for the receipt of an approved quantity of RDF by vessels from the port facilities of the plant and for its controlled management up to the power supply in the rotary furnace. The decision to amend environmental conditions shall set the limit values for air emissions produced from the combustion of alternative fuels and shall provide for strict quality control at the time of the receipt of secondary fuels. Furthermore, as provided for in the Voluntary Cooperation Agreement of the Ministry of the Environment with the Cement Industry Union renewed on 3 July 2019, each unit must maintain a high level of public information on the use of alternative fuels and on the quality of furnace exhaust gas in which combustion takes place. Third, as far as petcoke is concerned, according to the data collected by the Ministry's services, consumption in the last five years in this unit has been as follows: One hundred and fifty-four thousand tonnes of petcoke in 2015, one hundred eighty-four thousand tonnes in 2016, sixty thousand tonnes in 2017, one hundred and twenty-one tons in 2018 and one hundred and thirty-two thousand tonnes in 2019. Fourthly, the company in question has developed an online electronic recording system for quality control measurements of the rotary furnace exhaust gas. The sample shall be obtained monthlyly and analyses of the dioxin content shall be carried out by the accredited laboratory ‘Democritus’. The data to be reported do not give rise to any relevant excesses. Fifth, the Department of Environment Inspectors of the Ministry, as well as the Environmental Quality Control Scale of the Region of Thessaly, have carried out multiple checks in this facility. Amongst these, joint control in 2018, when it emerged that there is no violation of the environmental conditions for August 2017-May 2018. The Ministry of Environment Inspectors’ Department carried out a new audit in September 2020, the results of which are being processed. The audit collected data on the quantities of alternative fuels and petcoke used in the plant. I conclude by saying that details of the type of fuel, the process of supplying combustion and the quality of emissions are presented on both the company's specific platform and the reports submitted by the company to the Ministry. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u13	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I really haven't seen the company's evidence beyond the announcements, the document that I have from the periphery in my hands. However, with my scientific knowledge, what I see here is a process where the LAG produces more climate pollutants and that is shocking. I'll look into the evidence in detail, but it'll make me a big surprise not to do that. I see, in other words, petcoke with coal not being reduced, but RDF-SRF waste added, which, however, is not presumed to be used for cement production. The production of cement is stable. When they have the same amount of hydrocarbons, it does not, in practice, appear that the waste they burn in vast quantities is now being used in the production process. They appear to be used for the subsidy. And this is a huge issue for a city that feels a huge deterioration in its quality of life and likely this degradation comes just from this waste incineration. Another question: If we wanted to see that our cement industries were really climate-friendly, PPA has installed a gas network within the factory free of charge. Why is this plant not using natural gas, but it continues and uses petcoke and coal - it is a shocking question - and at the same time burns waste and gets a subsidy? We see, in other words, phenomena that discourage citizens against the fight against the climate crisis, because people see people taking money and not reducing their emissions, taking money and burdening the environment. Now, with regard to measurements, in Volos there is a gas meter at the 1st Municipal School of Volos, which only counts suspended particles 2,5 and 10, does not count dioxins, furans, heavy metals and the other six pollutants of Directive 50/2008. And when "Democritus" went in 2018 to do an on-the-spot investigation, this was after a date, and the investigation was warned in the field of GET. The situation is really humiliating. I really call on you to abolish this voluntary agreement between state, government and cement industries brought by SYRIZA as the last act of drama before leaving the government, abolish it, stop burning waste in cement industries, which do not use it to reduce climate pollutants. They use it, apparently, for subsidies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u15	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I now come to the monitoring of air quality. Firstly, as you know, the quality of the atmosphere in Greece is monitored by the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network with stable automatic stations operating on a 24-hour basis. The network, as you rightly said before, is part of the 1st Municipal School set up in 2000, whose responsibility for operating, monitoring and informing the public is shared by the Region of Thessaly. In 2016, the station acquired at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment a new suspended particle analyst PM10 and PM2,5. The measurement data shall be presented on the website of the Ministry of the Environment and, due to the Union obligation to keep the public informed and to air quality on the website of the European Environment Agency. Secondly, at the beginning of 2020, the Region of Thessaly started and installed and operates at Volos second gas and particulate pollutant monitoring station. This station measures the values of benzene, ozone, carbon monoxide, dioxide, sulphur, salon, and suspended particulates PM10 and PM2,5. The results of the station's measurements, which, due to technical issues, has not yet been connected to the national network, are reported on the website of the Region of Thessaly. Thirdly, there is the process of supplying another station to join the national network with a funding of EUR 150 000 from the Green Fund. The notice will develop in the near future. Fourthly, in September 2020 he joined the 2014-2020 Regional Programme for the procurement of two more measuring stations for Volos and Magnesia. The consultation on the technical specifications has already been completed and a notice of the project is expected to be issued. Fifth, the Region of Thessaly proceeded with a programme contract with the IMP, namely the Environment Control Laboratory of the Chemistry Department, to investigate chemical composition and origin of dysosmia in Volos. Informingly, last night I had a teleconferencing with the relevant teacher on other issues, and I also discussed this on the occasion of the timely question. Research is evolving and when we have the results, we'll see you again. Three sample stations were installed in June 2020 in positions of the Volos town complex for regular and extraordinary sampling. At the same time, special portable equipment is available for the full investigation. To date, ninety regular samples have been carried out by the regular stations installed and five samples have been taken in industrial activities. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I will be done in a moment. Sixth, regarding the research of the University of Thessaly, it is stressed that this is based on measurements of the suspended particles PM10 and PM2,5, i.e. the same ones recorded by the Ministry of the Environment itself and that the investigation has not yet been notified to the Ministry of the Environment to be evaluated and, of course, on further actions. The assessment of the quality of the atmosphere, as you can see, shall be carried out within the framework established by and on the basis of national and Union legislation, and shall assess the integrity and completeness of the research. I would like to tell you that the issue concerns the Ministry, self-government, but also society, which I am well aware of. We also expect the latest results of all these investigations and be sure that when the evidence comes assessed and finally, on our part, we will do whatever it takes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u17	Next is the fourth question, no. 156/13-11-2020, in the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mera25 Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Health." The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, according to recent reports, but also statistics, it is noted that the health situation in detention stores, in the prisons in the country, is extremely dangerous but also uncontrolled. I would refer to passport prisons, where we recently had about a hundred and eight cases, including two dead. In these prisons it is noted that completeness exceeds the rate of 148%. A similar situation is seen in the rest of detention stores, such as Korydalos and Komotini, where completeness exceeds 200%. While provision is made for the capacity in detention stores to be around ten thousand places, in our country, unfortunately, this percentage is exceeded, as the number of detainees on 2 November was 11 000 four hundred twenty-seven. While the Secretary-General has tried - and this is the very paradoxical - to reassure public opinion by saying that the situation is under control, the initiative on the rights of prisoners and other bodies is coming to disprove its statements and to say that what is being observed in prisons and in the face of pandemic is, in the first place, the total lack of health material - antiseptics, masks, gloves - the suppressive disinfection of prisons, over-consummation - which is something that has already been observed in Europe - and the total indifference of vulnerable groups such as children, babies, mothers and vulnerable ages that are already suffering from underlying illnesses. Also, because in northern Greece, temperatures are very low, there is even a ban on receiving parcels, so prisoners cannot even have access to clothing. Furthermore, the staff who invade the prisons have not even been examined, has not even been subjected to the elementary COVID -19 tests, in order to confirm that they will not endanger either the prison personnel or the prisoners, while at a different climate from the General Secretariat's statements, and the President of the Association of Sanctions Officers of Thessaloniki, who emphasises that the officials are exaggerating and living a nightmare, while the prisoners are forced to be locked in their cells, because this is the explicit command given and the officials are shooting at their homes and there is a risk of dispersal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. Similar complaints are, therefore, made in other detention stores, such as in Chania, where there are no cleaners at all. Of course, it makes sense to accumulate demands for targeted decongestion so that prisoners who have served their sentences can either be placed under house arrest or fired under conditions. So in view of all this, which is due to the frugality of the Ministry of Civil Protection, we ask you why we have not taken timely targeted measures to protect the health of detainees and staff and how you intend to move from here in relation to complaints and reasonable requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after more than one year of its term of office, the Government has shown in practice absolute respect for all parliamentary procedures, while at the same time responding to a constant request from the citizens in recent years for the imperative need to increase the quality of parliamentary control. Particular attention is paid to the governmental pattern in the smooth operation of the parliamentary control process, while undermining the progress made and the government choices in strict and thorough control by the entire National Representation. At the same time, through this high political value and symbolisation of governmental selection, we ensure the uninterrupted, objective, responsible and comprehensive information for citizens on a number of issues relating to political decisions and concern the timeliness and public life of our country. It is therefore indisputable that the right to parliamentary scrutiny, as I have just pointed out, is undeniable for all the members of the National Representation, as this arises from their parliamentary status. Just a few days ago in this Chamber, last Friday, in the context of the parliamentary scrutiny procedure, a question was discussed by a Member of the Greek Parliament. So, then, I have had the opportunity through a very detailed presence with a number of tables and additional elements to unfold the strategy and all the actions that we have taken, even before the emergence of increased COVID-19 cases in our country, with the aim of health protection for those who are in all the penitentiary stores in the country. Just a few hours after the debate on this topical question, I was amazed that the topical and urgent question we are discussing today on the same subject with almost identical content, as was never the case, the discussion, the detailed submission of data and the submission of documents last Friday. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am once again presenting tables containing a large number of elements and listing all our actions on health protection, management and control of the pandemic in the prisons in the country, hoping at least this time to receive your attention. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] At this point I would like to point out a few points, with the aim of opposing lame claims and the removal of all kinds of shading that is being attempted by some to leave around our handling. Firstly, as regards the closed store in Chania, a credit amounting to EUR 2,480 has been approved from the beginning of November for the supply of disinfecting materials both of the premises and of the vehicles of that penitentiary store. Secondly, as I said before, extending the institution of the online visit via Skype is a matter of the highest priority for all of us and we prove it through our actions. Last Friday, the institution of the online visit was already in twenty - two penitentiary stores. Today, just a week later, this institution has been extended to twenty-seven shops and it is expected that it will be triggered to the rest of the eight in the next few days. The table I table today in the Minutes shows exactly the progress that has been made. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thirdly, I would like to clarify to the truth that the importation of clothing parcels for prisoners in prisons is done without delay, always under the EGE's instructions, i.e. clothes not in nylon packing and are delivered to the prisoners after seven days have elapsed in a special place. To conclude, I would like to add that any additional needs in clothing and first-demand items are covered as far as possible by the social service of each detention shop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I would first like to refer to the measures you have made to us. You yourself said about the credit to the detention store in Chania that it was held in early November. We're talking about two waves of pandemic, the first of which was launched in March, and you've been telling us that you started taking any measure on Chania since November. This already shows how much you have been delayed. Extension of online Skype visiting since last Friday. Here too, frugalness and delay. You mentioned nothing about the recruitment of staff in prisons and the decongestion of prisons. On these specific points, I shall refer a little later. I would like to say that the problem had already arisen since 20 October, when a positive employee was found, and by 6 November the cases had reached sixty-five, precisely because the government had not taken care of doing anything to prevent dispersion. While we had the first case on 20 October, on 6 November the EGE started carrying out a hundred sixty sample tests and it is even observed that these tests are still being carried out in a very slow process. By yesterday the check had been completed to two hundred and fifty prisoners from the five hundred and ninety eight have been found positive. I repeat that they are already dead two prisoners, sixty-five and eighty-one. The prisoners have been ordered to stay locked in their cells. If that is possible, it is a measure of their health protection! We are not over-conscious, but we see that the measures you have announced to us are not just semi-metres, but they are incomplete. I will submit to the minutes and the relevant documents. You know much better than I do that our country has been condemned too many times for inhumane treatment of the detainees in which they are caging, over-consciousness. From the first wave of the pandemic of fifty-eight MEPs from four different political groups had called on the European Union to show special attention to overpopulation in prisons. Despite your Government's declarations, the prison population has increased from January 1st to November 1st from the ten thousand eight hundred ninety-one in eleven thousand four hundred twenty-seven. It is evidence submitted by the Secretary-General of Criminal Policy itself. Our country has also been judged to be the fourth European country to increase the population in prisons from 1 January 2020 to 15 September 2020. And the worst of all, what we must stress is that, according to a survey by the Council of Europe itself, the number of detainees released under disarmament measures you have announced is zero. Zero prisoners, while meeting the conditions to be released, have been released. All these elements, which are very important, show that the government has done nothing essential - and indeed in time - to prevent the spread of the coronary in prisons, consumed in controversial supplies, consumed in the doctrine 'law and order' and did nothing to stop Greece from being exposed internationally to the treatment of detainees and their health protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the space of the Greek Parliament is not for micro-political tactics. We are not talking today about decongestion of prisons, but I am going to make a general point. It is very recently the decongestion measures taken by the previous government and I will remind you that absolutely no problem has been solved - the issue of decongestion with the previous Act of Friday, etc., - but, of course, major problems have arisen both within prisons and outside, in Greek society. Some are constantly attempting to politicize the enormous health crisis that we are experiencing. They are constantly investing in confusing through the exploitation of the anguish of vulnerable population groups and the concern of their relatives. They promote sincere and unselfish interest in the rights of our vulnerable fellow citizens without doing the least, which is their parliamentary duty, to those who have trusted them, to be informed of what is really happening in the penitentiaries of the country before they are placed in public. They remain struggling with their ideas, cultivating suspicion and tension within our groups of weak fellow humans, while society needs peace and trust in the state. To all those who call for humanism as a flag of opportunity for political confirmation, we are responding: We have both a plan and a plan and a responsibility and solidarity with our vulnerable people and an appetite for hard work to respond effectively to the needs of protection for those who are in detention. Consider the information I have submitted and you will see the progress and what exactly effective measures we have taken so far on the issue of pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u25	Good. We move on to the debate on the second question by No 159/16-11-2020 on the second time question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "The unilateral and incomplete government decision for the seventy-five days is irreparablely affecting thousands of businesses". The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the first Lockdown was considered necessary for the Ministry of Finance's decision to freeze seventy-five days in the payment of cheques by the firms that had been affected by the pandemic and there was no alternative at that time. Time's up. We could assess that decision in both its benefit and its negative effects and come to the second lockdown and what happened? What happened with other sectors where actual data were not assessed, in order to take protection and prevention measures, the same was done with the Ministry of Finance. It reiterated its decision in March. In March, yes, it was sudden - let us all consider it and accept it - and this decision was necessary as it was taken. In the second lockdown couldn't provide care for producers, suppliers, service companies, all those who had cheques in their hands and on the basis of these cheques had made their programming and were due to other businesses, workers, associates, their family? Could it not be taken into account that these firms also need to be regarded as affected, even secondary? Furthermore, one reason why: After the first lockdown all the checks, all private agreements took into account the problems of the market and had already put forward and agreed dates that were far longer than they would have been if we were in a normal period. The question, therefore, is what you will do for these enterprises, for their real support and not for simply transferring some dates to the public. The most important thing is this. I put it in March when my question to Mr. Dollacakis, who said he would study it, was discussed. He didn't come today. You're here. I think the government is working uniformly. I don't raise any such questions. My proposal, therefore, was to set up an intermediate bank tool so that the hotelier or any person affected can pay the date that the beneficiary, the bearer, is paid by the bank on the date agreed and the interim, whether it is seventy-five days or more, is the state's contribution to strengthening the company affected, that is to say, not to give the hoteliers in bulk, but targeted aid, on the basis of what will not disrupt the market and help to address the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Government has, as you know, been involved in suspending the termination, appearance and payment of securities for firms affected. Addressing the needs of businesses, which continue to be damaged by the current recession, on Wednesday 18-11-2020, we voted for a new provision to extend the repayment of securities, i.e. cheques, exchange and stamps on order. The new provision suspends until 31 December 2020 the deadlines for the termination, appearance and payment of securities by seventy-five days from the date indicated on each accountant for the activity codes, the SMRs which have either suspended their activities by decision of the administration or have been severely affected by the coronary epidemic. Undertakings affected for the implementation of the provision shall be considered to be undertakings which show a reduced turnover in April-September 2020 by more than 50% compared to the turnover of the corresponding period of 2019. Also, these records are not recorded in the records of economic behaviour and those that were registered and falling within the decision we have made are deleted. Measures have also been taken for beneficiaries of such securities. For the bearers of securities that are not active in an SMR of the undertakings to which the extension is granted, if the total value of securities suspended is more than 20% of their average monthly turnover of the immediately preceding tax year, then the deadlines for payment of the accredited debts are extended until 30 April 2021 and ending in November, as well as the deadlines for payment of VAT certified or certified to the DCM, with a final date for the submission of the declarations on 30-11-2020 and 30-12-2020. The deadline for payment of the instalments of November and December arrangements and facilities for partial payment of accredited debts to the DUs of those persons is also extended. In addition, the bearer of securities, which are not active in an SMR of undertakings to which the extension of repayment is granted, if the total value of securities suspended is more than 50% of their average monthly turnover of the immediately preceding tax year, enjoy the benefit of the non-registration of securities due to economic behaviour, if they have been proven to pay back within seventy-five days of the stamping or termination of the securities due and for which the creditor has been established or will have to make a failure to pay from 6 November to the end of December. We therefore consider that we have taken all those important measures that were necessary, and of course, as you know, we are constantly reassessing the situation in order to assess the new needs that arise in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we know the arrangement. We processed it on Wednesday, not only, but also on the previous days. We have tabled our proposals. It is essentially the same arrangement that applied in March. There was no improvement. A market man who listens to us at this time and has seen checks or paid or received, knows that when a cheque has come into the hands of an undertaking, it may be that the backing is more than a professional or business. I mean, we might have five hands that change the check. We have cases that have been deposited with the bank and concern a third party. In other words, we have a chain. I repeat that in the first phase a decision was necessary, and I think that to a large extent this freeze was functioning, of course, given that others were concerned, others were not, because some checks had already been discounted to banks and the beneficiaries had taken the money, while others had not been discounted, because they waited for the date of registration to be paid. We have various charges. So what I'm telling you is a very simple thing. You know that banks have a bank tool called "cheque discount". It submits the cheques to a professional or company in the bank, assessed on the basis of their validity, a percentage according to the bank 70% -75% of the bearer, discounting the cheques and, of course, the company they represent and operate. The operation shall pay the date of agreement. What will change, if the banks do a tool, will be to have a post-date payment date from the bank's side, or seventy-five days that you, as a government, are intervening in a private deal and changing it. Look out, it's interference in a private deal. In other cases this would be incomprehensible, but because of the exceptional circumstances, we are saying well in the first place. But you are disturbing the market, disturb the planning of the businesses in their hands. Not all of them are covered by 50% of what you say or anything else. Others owe abroad. Are you not telling me, by what provision from the one you voted on abroad - which was expected for money, but you say 'No, will you take it later, after two and a half months' - they are covered? How is this undertaking covered in its foreign obligations, either to suppliers or for other reasons, which have concluded a contract differently? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With the banking tool, then, the bearer will be paid on the agreed date, the hotelier or another will pay when he can in the seventy-five days later or anything. Instead of giving the aid and support to anyone affected, let us give a percentage aimed at the interest of the above time to be paid and let it not be seventy-five, let it be a hundred and fifty days, if you think this is fair or in a fair way. But look at it with that spirit. It is a simple consultation with the Association of Greek Banks and you did not do it all this time or if you did it - so that I do not blame you - the effort did not work out, that is, the banking system did not respond. Tell us, did you make the effort, did you not or did you not consider that to be reasonable?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u31	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u32	I'm talking about a bank tool on the market, and I want an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. As I said in my prototype, the government has done everything possible at the moment to regulate matters within a very short period of time and I think it has really intervened effectively on the issues raised by Mr Kegeroglu. However, in my denture, I would also like to focus on the other measures we have taken as a government to support business. Yesterday, on 19 November, the Minister of Finance announced a series of new measures, including the possibility of suspending a contract of employment of workers for the firms affected, while compensation for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u35	That's not true. For the checks...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u36	... the possibility of suspending the payment of VAT, as well as the suspension of payment of the instalments of regulated tax debts for companies that are suspended by a public authority, the continuation of the suspension of payment of bank loan instalments,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u37	We're talking about poor guys who have the checks in their hands...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u38	...the compulsory rental reduction of 40% in the business properties of the affected enterprises, the enlargement in relation to the previous cycles in the list of companies that have the right to participate in the fourth repayable advance, as announced - I say again - yesterday. Along with the next cycle of the repayable advance to be made in December, we will total EUR 5 billion in 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u39	Listen to them. They're important to the whole world. I also answered yours, but you must bear in mind the entire range of government interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u40	It's not about the whole spectrum. We're talking about the people you're exempted from.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u41	Among other measures taken, I mention entrepreneurship II, TPIX II, which provides working capital to small and medium-sized enterprises in specific sectors affected by closure due to the pandemic, providing up to 500,000 loans to a full interest subsidy for the first two years. TEMPUS II, a total of EUR 1 billion, has already, by leverage, created almost 2.6 billion loans. The COVID Business Guarantee Fund -19, in which funds amount to EUR 1,78 billion are managed, faces the existing gap in the possibility of guaranteeing both small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises. The programme provides a portfolio guarantee, with 80 % guarantee per loan and 40 % guarantee threshold for the portfolio of loans from small and medium-sized enterprises and 30% for the portfolio of loans from large firms. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] Mr President, I would also like to refer to the very well-known piece of legislation that we adopted here on financing, which provides the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u42	That's well known, Mr. Undersecretary. Don't waste time. We talked about it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u43	Yeah, but at the moment I'm talking about the whole range of measures adopted by the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u44	Yeah, but the question wasn't that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u45	... having answered the honourable Member's question exactly. So I want to say that there is this whole range of important interventions to help the real economy and small and medium-sized enterprises in the very critical phase. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u46	Next is the first with no 154/13-11-2020 topical question by SYRIZA Deputy Chios - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The need for direct support for earthquakes in Samos". Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, the earthquake that hit Samos severely on October 30 caused, in addition to the tragic loss of the two children, serious problems in housing, business spaces, infrastructure and public buildings and has adverse consequences for the safety, health, everyday life and economic life of the inhabitants of the island. The evolving second wave of pandemic and the imposition of quarantine throughout the country since 7 November exponentially aggravate, I would say, the situation in Samos. According to the results of the first tests of calculators, about two thousand buildings have been provisionally found to be inappropriate. Four hundred fifty residents are currently homeless and are hosted in hotels or family homes and a thousand three hundred houses are currently temporarily uninhabited. The EUR 600 for residents, the first breath for their survival, until last night, had not been paid. The next amount for the compensation of homes and homes remains invisible at present. We know that this is, of course, the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. He's evading your own portfolio. However, the granting of direct financial assistance to the affected, in accordance with the procedure set out in the Joint Ministerial Decision of 16 May 2019, has been significantly delayed. In addition, the Government has not announced the intention of granting an exceptional allowance to the affected, according to the model recently granted to the flood victims of Evia. I am referring to the decision by FEC 22-8-2020. As regards the financial support for the firms affected, the exclusive competence of your Ministry, in addition to the general declarations and the medium-term announcements, there has been no direct aid, absolutely necessary for the survival of people. I will continue in my second speech for the other measures requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank Mr Michaelides for his question. In the case of the Samos earthquake, the Government acted immediately and effectively, taking the necessary measures. Yet even today we are all shocked by the loss of the two young children. A few hours after the earthquake, the entire government mechanism was moved on the spot and moved across the range of its capabilities. Immediately he traveled to the island, in about three hours, a government step, a step of EMAS, members of the Civil Protection and Red Cross volunteers. In the morning, the General Secretariat for Civil Protection declared both municipalities of Samos in an emergency, so that the municipalities could proceed immediately to the rehabilitation of the affected. Samos was visited by the Prime Minister himself the next day to assess the situation in person. Two days later, the Ministry of Interior provided 1 million each of the two municipalities of Samos to meet the first costs of restoring public infrastructure. With regard to the relief of the affected, the two municipalities of Samos were subsidised from 500,000 euros against them. This means that while the normal procedure, as you know, prescribes a full record of the damage to the dwellings and the shipment of documents to the Ministry of the Interior so that after the disbursement of the money to the municipalities, the Ministry of the Interior has provided the so-called municipality with the sum of EUR 600 to households whose main residence has been affected, but also with the financial support of EUR 6 000 for the restoration of the building. The Government also announced the following measures for the affected: First, a suspension of the payment of all outstanding accredited and due tax liabilities for businesses and natural persons for a period of six months. Secondly, a 30% subsidy to 70% of the material damage caused by the firms affected by buildings, equipment, raw materials, goods, public and private vehicles, means of production. Thirdly, housing assistance to natural and legal persons, covering all the estimated losses, with 80% free state aid and 20% interest-free loan. Fourthly, the possibility of suspending contracts on the part of or of all their employees until the damage caused by the above phenomenon has been rectified and not more than three months. These workers are beneficiaries of exceptional financial aid as a special purpose compensation of EUR 534. Fifthly, the suspension of payment of current insurance contributions for six months and the adjustment of claims after six months in twelve to twenty-four monthly instalments. Sixth, the buildings of the land corresponding to them are exempted from the ENPI of the year in which the disaster occurred. Seventhly, the suspension for one year of each operation of forced action on immovable property of natural or legal persons who have been affected by the earthquake of 30 September 2020 and what followed it, substantially including the cases of auctions, seizures and miscarriages. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u51	Minister, at least in the first part of your position, you have reminded us of issues that are already known. Both the Prime Minister's visit and the package of measures you have announced are well known. But you do not answer specific questions. Minister, the island needs, first of all, a brave and immediate support in practice. The delays in secondary checks and in general the preaching procedures worsen the situation as time passes. As far as your Ministry is concerned, we are well aware that at least three hundred firms are in serious difficulties and we consider it necessary to make a direct advance on these undertakings which have been affected by the planned aid of 30% to 70% in cases of extensive and serious damage. This aid will allow, Mr Secretary, companies to cover some of the damage they have suffered and to start repair work immediately. I think it is a practice that has been followed in other cases of natural disasters. Another issue which we think would be useful is the measure and the tool of the repayable advance with a higher return, i.e. with a higher refund than in the other regions that apply this measure. I think it would be extremely positive to tackle the serious situation on the island. The transfer of the companies' obligations provided for in some of the measures you have announced and which you have repeated, we fear that they do not address the problem, for the simple reason that the companies which have suffered enormous damage due to the disastrous course of the economy by the coronary, are almost certain that they will not withstand accumulated obligations in the next period and it is certain that many of them will be closed. Mr. Undersecretary, the island of Samos has suffered huge disasters in infrastructure, administration buildings, schools, churches, archaeological sites. So it needs a more general, integrated, coherent reconstruction plan first of all - first of the housing fabric and, indeed, in extensive areas of the island. This project should be designed as a whole by specialist scientists, with the assistance of local government and, of course, it should have the necessary brave financial support. Your Ministry is of the opinion that it should seek, in collaboration with other relevant ministries, financial tools to restore the life of the island.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. In my dentistry, I would just like to confine myself to matters of responsibility of the Ministry, mainly because of an economy of time. As you know, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for compensation for the firms affected under Article 36 of Law No 2459/1997 by issuing a CIF of the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Infrastructure and Transport. For the adoption of this Decision, it is necessary, firstly, to adopt the JAP delimitation of the Ministry of Finance and Investment, Home, Infrastructure and Transport, with the speedy adoption of the relevant Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, demarcating the affected areas and, secondly, to record losses of the undertakings in question from the relevant region. The Ministry of Infrastructure has drawn up plans for demarcation for the earthquake and the floods that have been followed, which have been promoted by the existing legislative approvals and will then be promoted for signatures to the relevant ministries and therefore also to the Ministry of Finance. Then we will be able to take the necessary steps to compensate businesses. I would like to stress, however, that, following the recent extensive disasters in areas of the territory caused by extreme weather events, we have launched improvements in the existing institutional framework in order to simplify and speed up the process of granting the affected enterprises. More specifically, firstly, we have enabled the Damage Recording Committees to be staffed with permanent and private law unlimited time public and public service officials, as well as members of the Technical Chamber of Greece and the Chamber of Economics, provided that the staff of the regions participating in the committees are not sufficient to record the damage in good time. Secondly, we have made it possible to provide an advance on the total amount of grants for enterprises in exceptional cases where significant and extensive damage is observed, both in the number of firms affected and in the size of the disaster. Advances totalling more than 200,000 euros have been approved so far, most of which have been granted for those affected by "Jan" in the areas of Larissa, Magnesia, Lefkada and Carditsa. An advance will also be granted to the victims of Samos. Moreover, for the better service of the citizens, a first-class certificate is now required to be presented on the grounds of no bankruptcy in the last three months, compared with the one month in force. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u54	We're going through the last question. The second question will be debated with number 149/9-11-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'No concern for people and the cultural sector'. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the fact is that pandemic has changed our lives has changed our everyday lives. It is also a visible change in the area of culture, which is in red. The survival of the area of culture, workers and businesses is therefore a bet on all of us. It is a bet, of course, which refers to the state's responsible attitude. Of course, public health is a priority. Nobody's questioning it. But what does it need in front of this crisis? Strategic and integrated plan is needed to address the problems in the area of culture as well. Because, Minister, seeing and doing so and doing so - it is not a solution behind the government. The Ministry's difficulties are to identify the people of culture and that, of course, without registering. This proved particularly to be the case in March - June. Proof is the repatriations that exist in the arts sites, as a result of which there was no plan for the second wave of pandemic and this is proud. Both theatres, where they passed and passed a great deal of test, and the cinema closed down in March, I would say a long delay. Summer performances were done with protection measures, but without information on how they will work in winter. Winter operation was allowed in October for 15 days and was closed again. We all knew the second wave was coming. What wasn't there? There was no confrontation planning. Madam Minister, the theatre, cinema and other art sites are not entertainment spaces as many think. They're clean recreational spaces. That's why they can't be treated like focus. In the arts, protection measures, masks, distances, limited capacity were respected respectably. You gave in March allowances, excluding a large number of artists and, indeed, limiting the active one. And that, of course, is why there was no record at that time. He admitted that there is a black hole in culture. But you have not told us how this will be dealt with when many professions are seasonally in the industry and a word in particular has not been mentioned about the reintroduction of collective agreements. You have not presented a plan to guarantee uninsured work, as well as to guarantee the uninsured rehearsal of the preparation of an artistic performance. What will be the answer in this regard? What does he need? The state needs real care. We have tabled our proposals. Culture needs a programme of support for cultural activity, such as the special aid fund that we have mentioned from branches favoured by the pandemic and the lockdown. So I ask you, Minister: what do you answer the proposals of the Change Movement that have been tabled to you? How will you safeguard workers and especially artists? And this has referred to uninsured rehearsal and preparation. What do you answer about the reintroduction of collective agreements? What do you answer for the safe operation of the theatres, in terms of their capacity and the days of the performances? What do you say, Minister, in our essential proposal for the Special Assistance Fund, which we invite you to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u56	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have said many times that the government in general and the Ministry of Culture since the beginning of the pandemic have so far supported and continued to support the workers and businesses of culture. Workers in the sector have been treated according to the other workers in the other sectors who have also been affected and continue to be affected by the pandemic. The cultural workers from the beginning, with the care of the Ministry of Culture, have been included and obviously included in all the horizontal measures taken by the relevant ministries of finance and labour. In addition, the Ministry of Culture with a programme of development measures strengthened modern culture with around 25 million euros. As soon as yesterday we announced the programme to strengthen cinematographic budgets of 1,350,000 and yesterday more than half a million to support theatre businesses and continue to do so. With regard to the measures you have mentioned and proposed, I would like to inform you of the following: With regard to your proposal for a pre-marketing of special representations by the State, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Culture cannot, it is not legitimate to buy certain performances. Every year in the country around two thousand performances come up. If the Ministry proceeded with selecting some, it would raise State aid issues in favour of certain enterprises and at the expense of others. The measure proposed by you in the pre-marketing of specific performances would be inconsistent with a wide range of national and Union provisions and would raise inevitably doubts as to how to select these performances. On the contrary, the Ministry of Culture through regular grants supports non-profit bodies to perform theatrical performances. Especially this year, you know it very well, doubled the amounts of these grants for both theatre and dance. With regard to the compulsory grant of vacancies, Article 70 of Law 4745/2020 provides for the grant of vacancies in theatres, music scenes, dances, concerts, performances and cinemas, which reflects an integrated programme of financial support for enterprises, in addition to the general and specific programmes in force. In response to your proposal on compensation for the damages cancelled by the municipalities and regions, I repeat once again that the Ministry of Culture does not intervene in the decision-making of the municipalities and regions, as they are self-governing administrative entities. Similarly, for the proposals for compensation and aid, a refund of 40% of the rent for six months, a suspension of tax liabilities, a suspension of workers, an unemployment benefit, a suspension of evictions and auctions, these are the measures of responsibility of the Ministries of Finance and Labour and they are applied, in any case, horizontally. The proposed measure of financial assistance through the EMGO is the responsibility of the Ministry of Digital Governance, because the EMGO is a supervised body of the relevant Ministry and not of the Ministry of Culture. With regard to the operation of cultural companies, according to the recently issued CSR, even lasting stricter sanitary measures are allowed for rehearsal, recording and shooting. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] With regard to unpaid rehearsals, I have said so many times. Rehearsals must be paid and people must be insured. The problem is decades and has emerged strongly with pandemic. It is clear that labour law requires the remuneration and insurance of workers of culture during the projection period, as is also the case for the remuneration and insurance of every worker in the provision of his work. It is clear that the implementation of labour law goes beyond the competence of the Ministry of Culture. However, I must inform you that, for the first time in 2020, the Ministry of Culture and Sport laid down as a prerequisite for the grant of actions relating either to the theatre, or other programmes developed by the same or by its supervised bodies, the production of documents of works contracts to which the applicant would contribute the grant on the one hand, and on the other hand, of the actors and players who are going to take part in the performance. Such contracts should necessarily include a remuneration agreement corresponding to rehearsals and representations in respect of all actions. Obviously, we will continue to do so in 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u58	Madam Minister, you'll tell your dentist the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u59	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Especially for the Fund, which you propose can be financed from the resources allocated to self-government for cultural actions, such a assistance fund has nothing to do with the Ministry of Culture. On the other hand, what we voted on by law, the "Acropolis Acropolis", can act as a permanent Special Assistance Fund. The rest I'll report to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Constantopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully. Besides, here we are to be useful and not to create impressions either with vocals or with party crowns. The extraordinary aid, Minister, of EUR 534 began to be paid for September and November. But the government must know that the workers in the cultural sector are also waiting for the 800 euros announced by Mr Stagioras, and I would say here, the whole MS, because the theatres and the arts were closed on 2 November. Minister, producers are expecting compensation for the production which has been stopped because of a government decision - of course, not just because of a government decision, but because of the pandemic which forced the government to stop production - that is on 12 March, 20 September and 3 November respectively. Here, I suggest you, Minister, set fair criteria on the basis of the revenue difference between 2019 and 2020 and proceed to the compensation imposed. It is a matter of survival, Minister, for workers and businesses in the field of culture. Support the theatre ethos. They expect the subsidy of the theatrical producers that started and have already stopped, 40% of the posts when the theatres are open, 20% of the seats when they are closed. I must, however, add here, Minister, that the Ministry must take into account the theatres operating for seven days, as well as the fact that they were open for only three weeks in October. So we urge you here to increase to thirty the number of performances subsidised per month, to increase the subsidy rate from at least 20% to 30% for the time that the theatres will be closed and at the same time, to plan the economic and insurance safeguarding of artists during rehearsal periods. We suggest the pre-marketing of performances and their transmission with live streaming and this with full assurance, I would say, of intellectual and related rights in the reproduction of digital material. As to the possibility of financing, you have declared weakness, Minister, but I would like to say that the state, Madam Minister, is ruling horizontally. Contact Mr Stakoura and do what we ask you to do. A plan to support the development of the Greek theatre must also be drawn up in cooperation with the theatre and regular and extraordinary grants from the theatre and dance must be given immediately by the Ministry and, of course, by European resources that exist and to create a framework, together with the institutions, to support our country's culture. Lockdown is really dramatic for the area of culture. In the cinema industry, triasarchs and distributors expect similar support and a similar allocation of money from tickets purchased by the State, as I asked you to. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They also expect legislation and suspension of exports and auctions, a freeze in the issue of payment orders against companies which have not been in receipt throughout this period and, of course, a reduction in VAT to 6%, as in other cultural sectors. Madam Minister, the world of culture is in despair and everyone's eyes are on us, especially on you. The obligations of the tax office, the insurance funds and the banks are running, and they expect solutions from you, from the government. We recommend six months of suspension horizontally for all. Do the thing. Here to stress, Minister, that the art site cannot withstand propaganda that it is an allegedly viral transmission site, and that is why I call...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Constantopoulos, you're asking, not the program of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u64	I'll talk to you later. You're the Parliamentary Representative. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u65	We tell you to act on the Special Relief Fund from the economically advantageous sectors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u66	To know that when we ask a question, we ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u67	These are initiatives from other countries and, indeed, a success. Let us adopt them and work together without controversy and voices, so that we can take the field of culture out of the deadlock. Businesses expect solutions from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u68	You're old parliamentarians. The question is a question. It is not for each party to present its programme through the question. You, especially today, are a parliamentary representative after we discuss the same subject. That's where you say it! Oh, my God! Here, Minister, you have the floor. Please be lacquer, because you will be repeated by facts after a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u69	A lot! Thank you very much, Mr President. I will continue from where I stopped, as Mr Constantopoulos mentioned it. Mr Constantopoulos, the Artists' Register and the mapping of the cultural sector are an absolutely proper initiative and it is a reform, because only then will we have a picture of how many people are in the field of culture. What I have to say is that the initiative to draw up the register was fought. There were people who systematically prevented cultural professionals from being recorded in the register. However, today, contrary to what has happened in the past, the ministers of this government are working together. And I work with Mr. Stakoura, I work with Mr. Brutsi, and the entire government is working together. So not that kind of suggestions 'to work together'. We are working together, and that is why we have done what we have done, but which must be within the scope of the country's capacity and legitimacy. We're going back to the register. So, in the register, we said that if professionals who are not located in other archives are written, in order to get the allowance, these professionals will take it. In the register, therefore, it has been made clear since yesterday that they are entitled to the allowance of sixteen thousand two hundred five professionals and the process of checks continues. These professionals, then, since yesterday, have received the September - October allowance. We are talking about about 17.5m euros in total. And this subsidy will continue for both months. As far as the subsidisation of jobs is concerned, I have told you. You ask things that have been done and voted on by the House. At the moment, all the things you say are proposing to be done, examined and addressed within the framework of the institutional framework, the joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Labour, Culture and Finance, which is currently under way. From there on, you have spoken and spoken of strengthening the cinema and the Greek cinema. Well, it is the first time - and rightly so, because there was the pandemic - that the Greek cinema, in addition to its regular grants, takes about 5.5 million euros. I said it in my protology. The day before yesterday, we made public a programme of support for cinema studios, which is consistent with the film film of EUR 1,35 000. From there on, a pre-market for certain performances is not allowed, as you put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Because it follows the question of SYRIZA colleagues, who, with a rough timescale, in total, will take about three hours, we are obliged, on the basis of the health protocol, to stop for a quarter. So the meeting will start at 11.00 p.m. with the question of SYRIZA colleagues, who, apart from my dear Mrs Readostopoulou, have enough time for the other Members to derogate from the Rules of Procedure, because they have little time to ask the President-in-Office to unite the time of denology with their prototype, so that they can develop their issue better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u71	Mr. President, do we have a right too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u72	Yes, you do. But you're gonna need a dentist and you've got twice as much time. There are seven of these colleagues. For example, the last honourable Member has three minutes of prototype and two minutes of dentistry. It's better to take five minutes together. You have the time of the parliamentary representative. Parliamentarians have other times. So we're interrupting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u73	We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be taken at number 2/2/12-10-2020 on the current question by Members of the Radical Left Coalition - Progressive Alliance of Members of the Radical Alliance. Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou, Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou, Christofos Vernardakis, Maria - Eliza (Mariza) Xinogiannakopoulos, Vasiliou (Vasilis), Kalliopis Vetta, Sunday Malama, Tryphoon Alexiadis, Theodoris (Dorias) Augri, Anna Vasilis, Socrates Vardakis, Ioannis, Theodouros Dritsa, Soultana, Konstantinos Zourriri, Nikolas Igoumenides, Dionysios - Charalambous Kalamanianos, Euphresias (Frosias) theme Altopoulos, Astantoulousias Kyriou, Astantoulousias Kyriou (Allou, Aristoulistoulous), Alyos Kyloupou (Halon), Astantinou, Astantinoulioutousiadis (Halousiadis) Antarouliouliou, Arioulioutoulioutoulioutou, A. Let me inform you that the Parliamentary Representatives are: From SYRIZA Mr. Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis, from the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Bougas, from the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Before we proceed to the first question I asked SYRIZA's Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Anagnostopoulou, I would like my fellow Members to know that anyone who wishes to do and use dentistry will be able to tell us and use his time accordingly. For the prototype Mrs. Anagnostopoulos has 10 minutes, Mr. Skouriakos five minutes, Mr. Vernardakis five minutes, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou five minutes, Mr. Vassilikos five minutes, Mrs. Vetta three minutes and Mrs. Malama three minutes. I would ask all of us to keep the time to complete the process. Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Ignorestopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are going to discuss a topical question for a very important area, culture, in the midst of a major crisis, health and economic. I would first like to express my grief and the sadness of my party for people who are lost because of COVID -19, but also to express our gratitude for this heroic struggle between doctors and nurses in hospitals. Where government responsibility is lacking, individual and collective heroism emerges. So at this critical stage, culture is very much affected. HOME and the Association of Greek Actors with signatures of too many Associations and natural persons expose in the best way, in the darkest colors, what is happening in culture today. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Madam Minister, the whole society is affected by the policies of criminal indifference which the government has shown in three fundamental public pillars on which freedom, democracy and social cohesion of society, public health, public education and democratic culture depend. I'll come back to this. On this occasion, I would like to welcome both the initiative of both the POTO and the Greek Actors Association, who, on 17 November, launched programs on the Internet on the one hand, via radios on the other, to honour this uprising of the Polytechnic for democracy and freedom, which your government wanted with incredible self-restraint to silence the price that it owes to it every year. I will not say what happened that day, but I will salute the democrat culture, whoever inspired the uprising, and today reminds us again that collective consciousness and memory have identity. And this identity is encoded once and for all by culture. Madam Minister, I told you that for us public education, public health and democracy are the pillars of this democracy and of the freedom of all citizens. And I'm talking about democrat culture, because in your plans it was, like for private education, just like that for private health, in the same way, an oligarchal culture, one of the few. That is why, in the midst of a pandemic, you did not, Minister, have any plans at once, any reflexes, to support this culture. You, too, feared, as Mr. Petsas said, that no money would be wasted unjustly, unjustly for the ITHs, unjust for the schools, for the people of culture. We proposed that you come to the House to consider consensually, consult on what will happen with the closure of cultural sites and how to deal with this issue, but the consensus for you too, as for the Prime Minister, means " follow what I do, if you do not follow it, you are not consensual". Culture is not a luxury, and the tens of thousands of workers in it are not a negligible professional class, nor a peculiar space, nor is it, of course, meant to be the Minister of Culture to exercise styles and demonstrations of power, exploring various things, such as 'black work', etc. Madam Minister, you are not defending self-evidently. I shall begin with the cultural heritage, because that is where the seal of a government is drawn up for what it means to be a democratic culture for all. You lied about Thessaloniki that there were no studies. I present them to the future historians in the Minutes of the House. To see the historians of the future, to witness who is responsible for the criminal fragmentation of the antiquities of Metro of Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You lied about delaying the Metro project because of the country-by-country conservation because there are studies, which prove to be the exact opposite. And there's a reality, Minister. A project that had been delayed over previous governments many years, which the two years before 2015 was completely stopped, was completed by 75% by 2019. You have followed the interests of contractors and condemned Thessaloniki and us all, all Greeks and the international community not to have a huge sample of the continuity of multicultural culture, religious and secular centers of all Balkans, such as Thessaloniki. Thessaloniki likes you as a helmet. When it doesn't suit you in your account, then it gets on the sidelines. Of course you did the same with Salamis. Not only did you fight for the Salamimanca tomb, but you followed what Mr Hatzidakis said, because you cooperated too much. But, Minister, you are a Minister of Culture and you are not a civilization, and you are following a minister, who has a law of an ancient and environmental nature. There you should exercise what is determined by the Constitution for your competence, to support the cultural heritage in Salamis. You delivered the Kynosura peninsula to a best friend and on the other hand, you deprived from this area - where you were going and photographed with the Prime Minister for the two and a half thousand years - from the emblematic monument, the conservation and protection of the emblematic monument which is Salamis. But we want to say that this will not pass. I would have had many examples of the cultural heritage of Kara Tepee, Mytilini, the Valley of the Mosses of Boeotia, for Aegli Zappeio, but I will only be in the Acropolis itself. You have fought, ironed, what you are always accustomed to, the people, the citizens, who are their right and their duty to be interested in the works and interventions on the Rock of the Acropolis. You have fought, but you have not told us, Minister, because the Greek section of UNESCO strongly criticised the interventions. I'm filing it in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice.]] Why, Minister, did no democratic consultation take place? That's the democratic civilization we're talking about. We do not want to enter the scientific debate, but there are many scientific opinions. There are people who have given opinions else, but the Greek part of UNESCO has now come. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll allow me to take some more time. I'm going to modern culture to see the living who fight for their survival. Deep class treatment, this is the heading one can say. You say all the time, you said before and in the timely question by my colleague, 'we have given so much', figures, figures. I will tell you that all the grants you gave in total, and the ones you gave for Thessaloniki for the supervised entities the other day plus for the cinema, half a million yesterday, are a little more than the money on the Petsa list in the media, about 24 million euros. So, then, the culture and its people are appreciated a little more than the Pecha list. In my dentext I shall mention what these amounts are, which I present here to keep the famous grants in the Minutes of this House. How the 2020 budget was cut, because there was no culture in your budget, how it was cut to 2021, at least what we have seen. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice.]] But I want to say two things about the great benefits. Madam Secretary, you have made a bubble with the Artists Register.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u75	Mrs. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u76	I'll take two minutes, Mr. President. You made a bubble called an artist's register. It is a platform at the Ministry of Labour in "ERGANI". We will also come back to this. At least reopen it now. People are hungry. Open it again now! However, because the world of culture is hungry, and with this, I will be allowed, uncivilized and undemocratic cultural policy, I would like to make a few proposals here in Parliament. We have recommended them a long time ago. Some are new. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice.]] First of all, a programme of 'Measure Upright II', which analyses and costs all protection measures for creators, artists, precarious workers and businesses of culture, creative, cultural and artistic education. Secondly, our proposals for a fund for culture and creativity, for the development of the NSRF for a significant increase in the programmes of the Ministry of Culture, for a large social programme 'Culture for All', for the strengthening of cinema resources, for proposals for the book, which we are putting forward here. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice.]] Because yesterday I watched, Minister, you stayed in general on this major subject, just like the book. Thirdly, we table next week an amendment with three provisions in the Ministry of Labour bill and call on all Members of all the groups who consider that culture is not a psychopharmaceutical one, but it is life itself, our own and the future to support it. The first provision concerns the repertoire quota. The proposed provision creates a national umbrella for protecting domestic creation and new creators. We should have done it. Other countries such as France, Spain and many other countries have done so. 35% is the minimum rate that this society and the government can, of course, show solidarity, national protection and cultural heritage as well as modern creation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u77	My colleague, you've been here fourteen minutes. Please, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u78	I'm done. Reinforcement of collective management organisations. You know that with the closure of all users who pay to ASEAN money people, natural persons, artists, creators can't live. To provide money to the Intellectual Property Organisation, 50% of the distribution to beneficiaries in 2019, 95% to natural persons. The beneficiaries must be tax-free and inconsistent. Tuesday and last order. VAT rate of 6% for digital books, digital or audio music, for sale all the materials of operators and digital recording files for all cultural services. Here, by this provision, the restriction that applies to cultural services up to April is deleted and is always done from now on. Open bookshops and open credit libraries with all health protocols. A national policy on the book, which your government has stopped by abolishing the EMCDDA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have a lot to talk about, Minister. But don't start the numbers again and a sterile confrontation and warfare as you get used to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, under the Rules of Procedure Mrs Anagnastopoulou had ten minutes of prototype and five minutes of dentistry. He used all the time. However, because she is the head of the Members of Parliament, we will not charge the second. I understand that. I want to tell you something, however, ladies and gentlemen. Anybody who gets more than time from here will also get their denology. Please very much, because, as you can see, this is how it should be done. Mr. Darkness, you're the next speaker. You have five minutes from the protology and three minutes from your denology. I'm not asking any colleague. You know, you see the time, the bell rings, and we all understand. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I'll use my protology and later my denology. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before the 2019 elections we saw that there was not a single word about culture in the New Democracy programme. New Democracy didn't have positions? It was, there were seats, but there were as a secret agenda. Because, as it turned out after the elections, what it implemented, if it announced them as its policy, would probably lose rather than win votes. So your disastrous agenda, the ancient, Metro of Thessaloniki, the degradation of the function of "AKROPOL", intellectual rights, sinful fund, the coverage of some trade unionists charged with five felonies, etc., followed by the pandemic, which revealed your unaltered face to the people of culture and the space. You thought you could wrap artists' paper and make fun of them. You are announcing measures with such conditions, which concern very few people. You can make fun of the numbers of our fellow citizens who listen to us and don't know the space, but the artists can't make fun of them, so you have them daily toward you. For example, the extension of the aid to those who had taken the season in 2018-2019 only relates to two thousand seven hundred eighty-eighteen employees from ninety-five thousand of the space. Every announcement of yours is advertised as generous, but it concerns a few. The AMIs have been waiting since the summer, the urban non-profit business of the theatre, the two grand that you brought them to, and they haven't taken them. Yesterday you made a decision, told us before the question - to ask questions often, if it is to mobilize - which again the figures may make a impression, the EUR 568 000 from the Ministry of Culture and Sport, but people do not know that they are few, few. You gave us a list of beneficiaries with sums, which someone who has worked a season in the theater - I am not talking about those who know about business - knows that they are unacceptable, it is a minimum support. You're telling us you gave 2 million for culture. But the Pecha list gave the media those 22 millions, the numbers you're telling them, they're showing great benefit, while they're crumbs, while they're nothing. You give an exceptional amount of EUR 26,000 to the municipal regional theatres. Ten years I've had the luck of running such a theater. That money is an employee. You know, a municipal regional theatre is a full-function theatre, it wants a lot of employees, it needs technicians, so we don't get into production, actors and materials. We have complaints that the Ministry's bureaucracy has put too many obstacles to those who have applied. Too many obstacles! You have been tragically late to renew health protocols. At the beginning of October, you announced when the expenses had been incurred, the scenes closed and the people went in. Artists say that we live on its territory 'will', 'will' and 'will'. Make an announcement and actually take it back, cancel it through the red tape, which you handle perfectly. Reduction of the toy in the show and audience area has been reduced to more than 90% in the first half, according to ELSTAT's figures. Unemployment in the area has risen dramatically. In Thessaloniki, the Music Association has organized a pool. In Athens, the Bureau of the Greek Actors Association passes by a merciful symphony and takes some of the places for the perpetrators who fall, who have no to live, because from February you announced that they will not work, that they are forbidden to work. Let us not move on to related and intellectual rights. Mrs. Anagnastopoulou mentioned them. The cultural and entertainment sites do not work. There are no receipts, no entitlements. Today the Collective Management Organisations have lost at least 70% of their turnover. What the SYRIZA government did was what the creators expected decades, the law on related and intellectual rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is unnecessary, I imagine, to ask whether you are planning the landscape of culture after the pandemic. Needless to ask what the program for the revival of the theatre, dance, is. It's funny to think you're interested in the future of his space and his people. You haven't taken such samples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, first question. Why don't you move on to a brave emergency grant from Collective Management Bodies? The world of creators is currently in despair, in poverty. We've told you since the first wave of pandemic. Why don't you think of this solution, which would solve a huge problem in relation to the issue of non-payment, non-performance right now in the country? You're talking about the record. I wonder what you're saying. You said you were going to make a record at the Ministry of Culture. It's necessary. Indeed, there is a need for typology, a list of professions, a picture of what is happening at the moment in this whole culture industry. That's right. I asked you a few days ago a parliamentary question and you said that the services of the Ministry of Culture had no involvement in the register. What you said a record as your Ministry's policy was the voluntary self-registration in "ERGANI", to get the allowance of 800 euros in the first wave of pandemic. And proof of this paranoid argument you are bringing at the moment is that just now in the question of Mr Constantopoulos of the Change Movement you said that they have received the allowance of sixteen thousand two hundred five. But you yourself said and said a few months ago that the civilization workers are fifty, sixty, seventy thousand. What's your policy, anyway? Neither strengthening the Collective Management Bodies nor register as a binding policy nor as an expression of competence of the Ministry of Culture. Question 2, what have you been doing to the President of the Council of State? You didn't go to private conversation. You have to tell us, because you went two or three days before the case of ancient Thessaloniki was brought into the Council of State's Plenary Assembly. Why am I asking that? Sure, let me tell you. Because if you are intervening with the Council of State to legalise or prevent any negative development in this matter, imagine what you are doing on other issues, because here we now have seven persecutions in the Ministry of Culture, two criminal prosecutions with a sum of seven felonies, for which you have not exercised the slightest disciplinary control, as you are obliged by the opinions of the Legal Council of State, by the opinions of the Council of State, by the Civil Service Code and so on. You have received the last disciplinary action, for example, from the Prosecutors' Prosecutors' Office in Athens on 11 August, which informs you that the Prosecutor's Office is prosecuting the offences of infidelity on a continuous and conspiracy against the Greek State and you have done nothing about it. You're not taking any responsibility. There are personalized responsibilities and instead of exercising your disciplinary duties, as the law lays down, as you are obliged, because otherwise you are exposed to an infringement of duty, you are beginning to distort the situation. And obviously, for this all you've been registered as the Ministry of Refugees, as the Ministry, which is now trying to cover up the CCEE of the Ministry of Culture for a year and a half. We want a concrete response to this issue. And not just for it. I would like to ask you another question now: to what extent this café process will reach the Ministry, to acquit criminally controlled by justice for seven felonies - unbelievable on a continuing basis, the creation of a criminal organization, these are the charges, they are seven serious felonies - to stop the exercise of disciplinary control you are obliged to carry out and - o of the miracle! - to conduct CEDs and disciplinary investigations to those officials who have helped the justice to stir up and to be able to investigate these major economic and political socialist scandals within the Ministry. How far will this process arrive? Is that why you were appointed Minister of Culture? To cover up these huge scandals that come, of course, from the past and which are likely to involve you as well as the time when you did the Secretary-General's duties? And you have reached the sad point that you have appointed the Solidarity Fund a clearer in operation, that is to say, to cover the scandals that exist, but also in operation, so that we can continue to finance this illegal organisation, which is blamed on justice. You have recently given but 40,000 for an unexistent conference in this famous group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Comrade, will you use your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u84	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm probably gonna use it and you're gonna take it away from me because it's very important. And you are getting the point of sacking workers who work twenty-five years at this public person's day station - the liquidator, that is, taking illegal initiatives with your cover, obviously - when you are not applying a law that is in force, namely transferring workers to the Ministry of Culture. I would also like to see an answer here, Mr Papoutsis, from the New Democracy, because this law, with which an issue was being resolved, had also been passed by the New Democracy and had then been strongly supported by the representative responsible for culture. Here again, you are in breach of your duties. It's not just the law that's in place. You have to tell us what you're going to do. Will you remove him? Do you intend to abolish him? Why do you not apply the law and sentence workers with twenty and twenty-five years of work? And how do you put yourself in the decision of the Independent Authority of the AACC, which tells you that it is legal and that you now go ahead and solve this problem, which you are dragging it down? On the contrary, you legalise the most illegal, most cafficient procedure within the Ministry of Culture. You are responsible, personally responsible, for covering this great scandal, which has been made by the Ministry of Culture not for the creators to be indifferent, but here is a farm of scandals and administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Colleague, you've got a minute left. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u86	I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is true that the world of culture, the artists, the workers are facing the consequences, the economic and social, the pandemic. They're really - we're talking to them, we have friends in this space - on the brink of not being able to survive. The conditions are literally such that you require, Madam Minister, even now, even with such delay, to take drastic support measures. When the pandemic and the first lockdown began, there was an incredible oligopoly, indifference to the world of culture. I would say, in fact, that not only has there been frugalness, but we have also heard deceptive statements which have come to offend an area which contributes so much to our country as a whole. But I particularly want to focus on workers and artists and on what they are really trying all this time. A large movement, a movement from the opposition parties here in this House, had to be formed, a broader social movement for support workers, so that you could come too late in May to set up this register - and the previous colleagues have referred to it - without contacting the platform sufficiently, so that some of these artists, workers, can receive the 534 euro bonus. But where are we today? I would like to be very specific, because this is a time when very specific measures must be taken. My colleague, Mrs Sia Anagnostopoulou, has tabled concrete proposals and the previous colleagues have referred to them. First of all, the first thing we ask today is for the register to be opened, opened and extended. It has closed the register on October 20th and, according to the information we have from both the POGI and the artists, until October 14th, six days before the register was closed, there was a specialty added, that is, specialities were thus placed. It is absolutely necessary at the moment to open the register, to give a new deadline, to enable all specialities to enter so that there is no such great injustice and, above all, this great social need must be met. The second thing we ask, if they are integrated, is that there is a lot of artists and civilization workers who need to join. Mr Skouriakos or Mr Vernardakis said, I think, the number previously, that you said for sixteen thousand, when we now say that there are over forty or fifty thousand people, who should be able to make use of and cover even from this EUR 534 a month. We would like to have the exact information from you, namely how many people have actually been registered and how many people have started to be paid at this time and how many potential people are entitled to register, and if you open the register - which I think should be your decision - to retroactively take the allowance of September and October. According to the information we have, some of the registered people have started receiving the benefit of September and October. But there are delays and many have not taken it. We want an official briefing, we want the official information here in the House. But, Minister, you must ensure that both artists and civilization workers are respected and applied all the measures that you have already recognised as government, even in fragmentation, to all workers. Of course - and this has also been said by Mr Skouricos - they must be compensated for the performances which have been cancelled in a way which is not typical, but through a statement by Mr Chardalia and the way that was made in the summer. That's the first. As we have said before, we must ensure that everyone is able to receive this monthly allowance. Furthermore, it is crucial - and this is crucial - that you provide by legislation for the world of culture too, the reduction of taxes, so that they too can benefit from the unemployment benefit. That's critical. You have already introduced it for too many categories and correctly, particularly seasonal workers because they were dealing with the problem in the summer. Well, aren't the artists and the people of culture who should really be covered in this category too? Furthermore, you should also establish for them the rental allowance and instantly cover them at least the obligation to pay their dues. In particular now there is no excuse. We are in the middle of a second and much more critical lockdown, which we do not know and when it will end. So we expect you to take specific initiatives and commitments on these issues. Two more points. You have introduced subsidisation of vacancies. You did right. Anything that comes to support, at the moment, the cultural area is positive. But should you not at the same time check all these cultural enterprises, which you are right to support, whether they implement their obligations towards workers? There's no control today. We have complaints that people aren't paid, that they don't cover their insurance, that rehearsal commissions weren't paid before the the theaters were closed again. So you are right to support businesses in the field of culture, but you must be clear and decisive in ensuring that the employment rights and obligations of these businesses are respected. And perhaps because we are approaching the most difficult Christmas festivities, in this very difficult situation that we are experiencing and, unfortunately, where the government seems to have lost full control of the spasmodic movements that are taking place - and we hope that everyone will now support the national health system and, above all, support society itself, stand up with health and standing up to this great test - we believe, Madam Minister, that an extraordinary support for artists, civilization workers and holiday workers should be given. We as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance tabled an amendment yesterday calling for an emergency income for December for all our invisible people, seasonal workers, self-employed people with blocks, artists, workers in culture, tourism. All those who today are invisible to this government must be supported at least for the month of the holidays. We also call on you to adopt it in the area of culture and, of course, we call on the government to accept our amendment, but also to accept the second amendment we tabled yesterday in the working bill, which goes on to say that the State will fully meet the gift of the Christmas workers who are in suspension of a contract and receive the suspension allowance or the 'Consensus - WORK' programme and are working alternately with a reduction in wages, so that workers can also get their Christmas present, on the basis of their nominal wages, and that small and medium-sized enterprises in this difficult period in particular will not be penalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u87	Thank you for the time too. Mr. Vassilis has the floor for five minutes. Will you use your dentistry too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u88	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u89	Here, Mr. King, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk to you about the place I know best where my books are. A publishing house is a publishing company with its partners, who are the head or secretary and then follow those who need to work properly: handwritten readers like rapporteurs, curators, correctors, translators, public relations, responsible for presenting new books to other places, cleaners and others. All of this represents the necessary costs for the publishing company to work on a book. Then, like trawls leaving the tarsan and baptized in the sea, the books take their own road to the unknown boat of hope, since nothing has been anticipated before. All this, of course, concerns large publishing houses. Because there are the young, the newborns, who have been multiplied lately, and each of them has already shown their identity with the books it has published. They belong to the category of small businesses, which each has chosen its own sign covering other fields of literature. There is a publishing house that publishes only theaters, another that is mostly known with the essays. I'm leaving colleges because they already have a ready-to-be clientele. Now what's going on with the current crisis? It's happening what shouldn't have happened. Every European state has, along with the national theatre, its national lyric scene and the national book centre. The only European country no longer has the National Book Centre is Greece, "The country of ever". It started in 2013, when the then Prime Minister closed with the ERT and the CSRBI, which, as his name says, was our National Book Centre. The government of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance revived it in 2018-2019. He passed it through public consultation, but he did not have time to incorporate it because of the early parliamentary elections in July 2019. Thus, we have been orphans and the current Ministry of Culture and Sport has had an unacceptable indifference for its existence for sixteen months. The publishing companies, large and small, have not taken the deceased from the state. He excluded them as non-enterprises. And now the disastrous lockdown and bookshops, which, in compliance with all the standards, had been opened in the previous quarantine. Now it's closed. They did not think that bookshops are the pharmacy of man's soul, that, in principle, the reason and reason, thanks to Gudenberg leaving the parchment, ended with paper making it accessible to people. "The world is destined to end up in a book," French Malarme said in the past century and the word "destined" meant, of course, the inevitable. And that's what happened. Because VAT in the book, when we get out of the pandemic - since the vaccine is now before the gates - will be abolished, as is the case in many European countries, we are the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Mr. Vassilikos was absolutely consistent in his time. It didn't exceed a second. Mrs Kallipe Vetta has the floor for three minutes. Will you use your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u92	All year round, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u93	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after sixteen months of your ministerial service at the Ministry of Culture, one would now say that the only objective you are faithfully serving is the degradation of its role and ultimately its complete abolition. Apart from the absence of any constituted government policy on both the cultural heritage and the contemporary civilization you have personally taken care of either by acts or by your omissions to cancel your own institutional role in the cultural fabric of the country and in the consciousness of the Greek society. What should we want to do first? The extreme arrogant behavior you're emitting in the public space? Your anti-institutional interventions in judiciary power? The toxicity with which you are addressing the elected MPs, constantly perverting reality? The immortal style you addressed to the family of Mikrutsikos, Stavros Xarchakos, the thousands of citizens who protested about your operations in the Mycena fire and the cement you carried out in summary procedures in the Acropolis of Athens? Really, could you tell us if, as he wrote pro-government paper, you received a letter from UNESCO, why didn't you inform the UNESCO World Heritage Center about this concrete? Your policy is hostile and aggressive to everything collective and public, collective, such as the copyright of authors - which you have been questioning and undermining for months - and public, such as the resources of the country's cultural heritage, which you are irresponsible for private exploitation when you are not destroying it for micro-political purposes. It is at least tragic of you that the manners for the non-application of laws in most cases, such as the informal assignment of your responsibilities to the Mayor of Athens for archaeological sites in Athens, the destruction of the ancient Venizelos in Metro Thessaloniki, the illegal rise of antiquities from the bottom of Antikythera, the violation of archaeological legislation in Kara Tepes, and the recent approval by your silence of the diluent ship in Zone I, the Protection of the Archaeological Area of Kynossouras in the Naval Area of Salamis, and next to Tymvos of Salaminomachusians, while this activity was banned by previous decisions in 2011, 2013 and 2019. And I would like these decisions to be tabled in the Minutes along with reactions from local society, from local government, together with the question from the SYRIZA MEPs in the Commission. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In return, Minister, are you doing this? In what way do you effectively abolish the state's constitutional obligation to protect cultural heritage? What right are you questioning the scientific facts, calling the Salami-mamus Tumbo a'so-called tumulus' to Parliament recently? In what hypocrisy country, is your patriotism being crushed, when you are destroying great antiquities in Macedonian land, or when you destroy Kinosura, at the same time as slapping the veil for two and a half thousand years from the Battle of Salamis? Madam Minister, if you had suddenly landed in the Ministry of Culture, many of your options might have been interpreted as criminal ignorance. However, your long-standing pre-service to this rather criminal feasibility testifies to re-emergence a vicious maladministration regime, which until December 2015 also boasted disasters of antiquities, covered cases of the destruction of public money, tolerated sinful GDPI and systematically strangled modern cultural creation in the midst of another crisis. And while you should go out ahead as institutional authority, Minister, to defend the country's artistic potential, to take immediate action from March and plan with them the next day, what have you done? For eight months you have been dealing with the situation with half-measures, sometimes hiding behind other ministers, institutions and bodies, and sometimes putting the blame on the artists themselves. We are still awaiting an integrated cultural support plan in our country, but unfortunately your imagination is exhausted in how you will deceive everyone and how you will distort reality into every problem that arises. However, this does not help with the already tragic situation that has occurred in the most affected spectacles and audiences. He does not respond to the pandemic reaction of artists and thousands of art workers. It shall not respond to their requests for measures to protect the national repertoire, to safeguard their copyright, to compensation from the cancelled events, for a qualitative and timely extension of the registry, to reduce the necessary pledges to join the OAU and to suspend payment of their dues for as long as they do not work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. With the sanitary and economic crisis now smuggling uncontrollably, the eight months of bruising, fragmentary measures and foreigners' decisions form an even more bleak and uncertain future for them. The problem now concerns the immediate survival of thousands of people. There is no room for experimentation, Minister. We've reached the fundraisers and piles now. If you had listened to the people of culture and adopted timely proposals and suggestions of counter-population, it would not be so tragic at the moment. But your short-sighted policy runs out of cutting fines on street musicians. This is the face of your Government and unfortunately, for the Greek society you and your choices create multiple additional crises over the crisis of the juncture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Sunday Malama has the floor. Will you also use dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u96	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u97	No, that's good. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today, Minister, about culture on a black background, a black background because the days we have spent are the worst for culture in Greece for decades. Your term of office has marked the worst deadlocks for artists, for authors and for workers in culture as a whole. You showed with your finger those people of art and you eventually charged them with neither much nor much that they are unfairly protesting because they work 'black'. This approach, unfortunately, is not just yours. Culture: An element necessary for life itself, for existence itself. The people of culture are insulting you because you have not supported them, because you have not really dealt with the training of health protocols, so that the art spaces can function. They are also accuseing you of the fact that, at the level of subsidised support, these workers are literally forgotten by the state. It seems clear from your actions that you face culture as a problem and as an obstacle. It is not only what you have done or rather what you have not done for culture during the crisis, but also what you have planned for culture and before the crisis. What criticizes you as a huge burden. What does not serve your ideological obsessed, what doubts you is for you prefer to be put in lockdown. And unfortunately, this is not only about modern culture, the artistic creation that is suffering today in our country. It also concerns our cultural heritage, it also concerns our ancient wealth and our archaeological treasures. At first you had the obvious idea of privatising our museums. You tried to change the legal form in the Archaeological Museum of Athens, because you changed the composition of the CAS, so that it could no problem consent to your various options. Then you visited the President of the Council of State just days before the trial of the ancient Venizelos. Are you disturbed by the files of the Squirrels? To go away and all the rest that my colleagues have already said! Are the ancients in Venizelos blocking you? Powder to be done! Do you want to walk to the Acropolis? Cement to be done! So you made a Central Archaeological Board, "washing machine" literally and dissolve our cultural heritage. I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. The Venizelos Station is developing a crime. You say you can remove little bit of a huge Byzantine urban crossroads without destroying it. Lie! No such work has ever been done in Greece. We have already submitted the studies. The cost of such intervention is impossible to calculate. No security guarantee, no scientific basis. And everyone wonders - you are an archaeologist, Minister - how it is possible to support this view. On the basis of what study, on the basis of what logic, if not that of the contractor profit? I will submit to the Minutes the decision of the Europa Nostra Council calling for the antiquities of Thessaloniki to be maintained on site. And after the decision follows, just before the end comes to an end, it says: "The preservation of the authenticity of these antiquities through their country-by-country preservation is also a prerequisite for their possible future successful integration into the UNESCO World Heritage List. As known, the UNESCO World Heritage Convention explicitly excludes from registration as a monument of global heritage the antiquities removed and later repositioned.’ [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Madam Minister, in the field of culture, depreciating government choices is universal. You have managed to make the Ministry of Culture literally an enemy of culture. We tell you for the last time "change rota, support the people of culture and protect the cultural heritage". And because artists and cultural workers do not even have to meet their basic needs and because you tend to question SYRIZA, I would also like to submit two documents in the Minutes. The first concerns the aggregations organized by the Association of Musicals of Northern Greece for the people of culture who are facing a very serious problem of survival. Symbols in 2020! I would like to present them to you in the Minutes and ask you to study them very carefully, because your policies have literally led the world of culture to hunger. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Cyrus Malama, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The second document I submitted, again by the Music Association, concerns the access of uninsured artists to basic health services. The Social Physician of Thessaloniki replaces the state for artists in relation to meeting their health needs, because you as government were completely indifferent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Malama.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u100	I'll take Mr. Bernardakis, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u101	You've taken it, you've gone over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u102	As a last point, I would like to refer to a fact that we have not heard you take any position on. A few days ago in Thessaloniki a street musician went to play music and the police charged her with a fine of EUR 500 for hiking and for pointless transportation. We were all waiting for a statement of condemnation for this behaviour of the forces of order. We also expected your intervention to cancel this unacceptable fine to an artist who is trying to survive. But we didn't hear anything, nothing at all! As you have nothing to say to the whole world of culture that will pass an entire winter forgotten to the unclaimed demands of your Government. But be sure that culture will not forget you when the time comes and send you the message. And then you won't be able to do what you don't hear, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance Mr Christos Stakos will submit the State Budget for the financial year 2021. That is why we are interrupting parliamentary control for a minimum time. The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the particular honour of presenting to the House the State Budget for the financial year 2021 and its draft report. I also present a report on tax expenditure, reports by the Directors-General of the General Accounting Office of the State, tax administration, customs and excise duties, public property and utilities of the Ministry of Finance, the annual audit report of the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the General Accounting Office of the State, as well as the declarations provided for in Article 58 of Law 4270/2014, as applicable. Mr President, I would ask you to set the dates for the state budget debate in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and in the plenary session of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u105	This is the budget, ladies and gentlemen, technically presented. It is a "significant" budget, perhaps due to the two-year anniversary of 1821 compared to 2021. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that the debate on the state budget in the relevant Standing Committee on Economic Affairs will take place on four consecutive meetings, on 24, 25 and afternoon - and on 26 November 2020, after consulting the Committee's Bureau. Furthermore, the debate in Parliament's plenary will begin on 11 December 2020, in accordance with Rule 123(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and will end on Tuesday 15 December 2020 at 12 o'clock by voting on it, good at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u106	And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, despite what has been said, I will assure you that the integrated management strategy that the Ministry of Culture has drawn up and shaped since July 2019 has been solely aimed at dealing effectively with the problems that had accumulated in the field of culture and the elimination of chronic diseases that the previous government has not only faced, but has increased inherited us to a large number of problems. In my programme statements in the House I presented in detail the main pillars of the development of public cultural policies. The project I have presented is in progress in all the actions developed by the Ministry of Culture. I told you a simple example: I had spoken at the time about "ACROPOL", which, when it was time for the law to be passed, SYRIZA of course voted against it after abomination, despite the fact that this body undertakes to maximise the benefit of the cultural resources invested, while supporting its cultural and creative industries and professionals. In our seventeen months of governance, we have redefined and re-established sites and construction sites which last five years sprung into absolute inertia and hypnosis with a visible risk of making it impossible to complete the projects, to lose significant resources, but also jobs. A characteristic example of the National Gallery, for which nothing had actually been done. So the National Gallery is to be launched on March 25, 2021, after we have managed to resurrect and reconstruct the construction site. Second example, Tatoi. You were supposed to be doing a job. You haven't done anything at all. Today the farm has acquired a construction site character. The EMST was also in danger of losing the sponsorship of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, not opening. Nothing prescribed in July 2019 that it would be opened as a National Museum of Contemporary Art. It opened on 24 February 2020. On your objections about the lack of an integrated book policy, I would remind you that the SYRIZA Government with a huge delay and just before the national elections tabled a bill establishing a bookmaker. This bill gave weight not in the book, but in the introduction of a stiff, complex, multitude and costly mechanism of dubious effectiveness, which was generally not able to cure the wounds of the space nor to solve the problems faced by the business branches associated with the book. We have launched the dialogue with the co-legislative Ministries of Education and Home Affairs in order to create a single policy for the book and then a single body. The book today shares three ministries. In the intervening period we arranged for the strengthening of the Hellenic Foundation of Culture, which as you know is the successor of the EMCDDA in terms of its activity in relation to the book, so that immediately and without an additional burden on Greek taxpayers there can be solutions for the book. At the same time, we are implementing a series of measures and actions to support the books and professionals of the area. The unprecedented international health crisis has forced us to find short-term ways of supporting and supporting artists, creators and professionals of culture. On the other hand, as he has shown chronic illnesses, it obliges us to take care to resolve problems which have been facing them for decades and which, while known, no one has attempted to solve them. Therefore, given the uncertainty and indifference of the period 2015-2019 for culture, it is incomprehensible to blame us for an anti-social policy and a lack of a plan in culture. Unfortunately, your things reveal your lack of strategy and your inability to resolve key issues in the area. Members of SYRIZA, or you are blinded or the fact that our plans do not remain words and plans, but they are implemented, that many works are produced and carried out despite the ravine of epidemiological developments, it prevents your vision and perseverance. It is incomprehensible to ask the Ministry of Culture about the health protocols and measures it applies during the pandemic, because it is clear that your question should be addressed to the relevant Ministry. Health protocols shall be decided by the competent committees which are not set up at the Ministry of Culture. The health protocols were implemented by the Ministry of Culture in letter throughout the period of relaxation of the measures for the recovery of the pandemic. Cultural events were organized throughout the country. I would remind you that Greece was the first country to open cultural infrastructures and the only European country to organise festivals. During the course of the adoption of restrictive measures, the Ministry of Culture must make any institutional, regulatory or informal clarification to make it clear that the country will remain alive from cultural activities and that artists will carry out their work by adapting to the difficult conditions of the pandemic. Our last speech of this kind was on the possibility of rehearsing and shooting and during the Lockdown period that we are going through. In this respect, then, unprecedented and unprecedented data have been called upon to deal with multiple issues relating to culture, while continuing and adapting to our decisions and actions in accordance with the health protocols. On the occasion of your complaint of incomplete programming, however, I will respond to the issues relating exclusively to the actions and measures which the Ministry of Culture has implemented and which it continues to implement. You might be disturbed by numbers. Maybe because you can't easily deny them. You insist that the Ministry of Culture has delayed. I will repeat once again that, from the beginning of the pandemic, in mid-March, the government has been dealing with the professionals of culture as it has dealt with all the sectors affected. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, employees and cultural professionals joined the government's horizontal measures in March. The integration of the CISs of culture into horizontal support measures took place quickly on our initiative. Furthermore, the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, also made progress in subsequent moves to cover the cases of workers and specificities of the cultural sector. The Ministry of Culture remains in close cooperation with the Ministries of Finance and Labour in order to cover other cases of industrial relations and to support our fellow citizens retrospectively. In this context, the beneficiaries of a seasonal allowance under Article 22 of Law 1836/1989 September-November 2019 were first integrated. These employees have become beneficiaries of the sum of EUR 800. It is precisely because our concern was to integrate as many people as possible into the measures, we have also taken very concrete action. Beneficiaries of the financial assistance of EUR 800 have become the workers whose contracts of employment expired before their contractual year in the period 15 February 2020 until 20 March 2020. They were also integrated into the horizontal measures and become beneficiaries of the special purpose compensation for employees who were engaged in short-term fixed-term work contracts, such as one or two-day contracts, with a contractual start-up and termination time within that same period, i.e. between 15 February and 20 March 2020 in one or more enterprises and employers. This amendment also includes and is retroactively covered by the financial support measures and those who are employed by more than one employer and some or some of them have not put their employment contracts on suspension and since their weekly hours of employment have not exceeded 50% of their total working hours under the employment contracts from 15 March to 20 April 2020. Finally, they were retrospectively integrated and covered in the financial support measures by workers artists, artists and professionals of culture, who are subject to one of the specialisation codes according to the e-ECA, employed in one or more enterprises or employers and have an insurance capacity in place. You insist that the initiative to create a register of cultural professionals is wrong, or at least it is wrong as it is done, that the register itself is wrong. Perhaps because as your reformist action it is unthinkable. But you are well aware that one of the major difficulties in the exercise of public policies for culture is the unwritten landscape and for which you naturally did not do anything, because you did not care to deal with it. You order us that the standard used for setting up the registry is not correct. But thanks to this tool of about sixteen thousand two hundred five professionals who are not located in other archives - we never said that this is the number that corresponds to the real workers, they are the ones that are not located in other archives - they have been recorded and received this benefit. On the basis of a simple responsible declaration and pursuant to Article 20 of Law No 4722/20, the special allowance of EUR 534 for the two-month September - October and its extension for another two-month period is entitled. This very simply means that sixteen thousand two hundred five people who since yesterday receive EUR 17.3 million of support, if there was no record they could not get it. The money has already been credited to the accounts. You have a huge responsibility, as with your denouncing reason you prevented many professionals from enrolling in time. Since March we have set up a special development programme in the Ministry of Culture, committing initially EUR 15 million, which is currently about EUR 25 million. We have introduced, for the first time, the possibility of grants to enterprises, natural persons and self-employed persons working in the cultural sector. Following this, five ASAs were issued in June 2010 and equal invitations related to the grant of the theatre, as well as to the grant of bodies, businesses, natural and legal persons and self-employed in the video game development, design, dance and visuals. A total of 13 calls were issued for the financial support of cultural clubs and AMKE and for a total of 8.5 million euros. Most of the grants have already been launched to the beneficiaries and those who have not, Mr Skouricos, have not yet provided the supporting documents. The amounts of grants from the theatrical groups from 1 to 2 million euros and the dance groups from 605 thousand to 1.2 million euros have doubled. We have strengthened the active AMDs in culture with about 2 million. I repeat, those who have received the legal documents are being subsidised without a problem. We have supported the regions with 1.5m euros for organising musical concerts. We supported with extraordinary funding the PPCTHI, which received the total amount of EUR 1,723,000 this year in order to stimulate theatre scenes and culture in the region, as well as to strengthen their educational work. We created the "All Greece a culture", where some two thousand people were employed from the free market. A special call for digital culture was issued totalling 1,200,000 euros. A special call for intangible cultural heritage was issued, under which eighty-one actions were awarded with EUR 628,000. A special support programme was set up for the book in collaboration and through the OAED, amounting to 1.250,000 euros. A specific financial programme for the film was set up through the Greek Film Center for a total budget of 3,800,000 euros. The film support measures should add the support programme for Greek cinemas and cinemas, which we announced yesterday, a budget of EUR 1,350,000. If we add the EUR 500,000, which financed thirty-one specific actions in the field of cinema and audiovisual, the overall package for cinema exceeds EUR 560 000. When did the Ministry of Culture provide similar amounts for the art of cinema and its professionals? Never. Because it is obvious that you are committed to supporting the allegedly inadequacy of the measures taken, I inform you that this is the first time available by the Ministry of Culture almost 40 million, including 14.5 million which strengthen our supervised bodies, to stimulate and enhance the resilience of modern culture and its creators, which are added to the amounts that have been included in the horizontal measures taken by the government. In all of the above, the support programme for the arts and cinema industry in the form of financial coverage of the tickets lost due to the pandemic is also added in accordance with Article 70 of Law 4745/2020. It is clear that while legislative and regulatory interventions have been developed by zero tools and support mechanisms for people of culture, in all respects of the country's economic potential, you are insisting on creating micro-political impressions in order to salvage the demographic picture of your proliferation. Besides, if the protection and support of the people of culture were really interested in you, you had the opportunity and the opportunity to do so. You didn't. Today you are confined to opportunityal isolation and distortion of my statements. Also interesting is the fact that the SYRIZA project on culture, as it is developing extensively online, makes vague and general references to the cultural sector and its employees. In any case, unfortunately, you have not tabled a single specific, costing and tailored to the specificities of the cultural sector, perhaps because you insist that you consider the situation in which you left culture in July 2019 normal. In closing the chapter on dealing with the consequences of the pandemic, I must point out that the national recovery plan, which will shortly be submitted to the European Commission, is the big bet for the government and, of course, also for the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Our aim is to ensure funding for the necessary reforms of the cultural and creative sector, with a view to eliminating problems, strengthening its resilience and sustainability. We have the know-how to meet the demands of such a project and you know it, regardless of whether you accept it. Before I refer to the issues you raise about cultural heritage, I would like to comment on your unacceptable claim to serve private and self-interest. You obviously have not been able to accept that the Ministry of Culture has been able to make effective use of cooperation between the private and public sectors, which has led to impressive results. Our events confirm the absolute respect of the provisions of Law 3028/2002, which are the only institutional basis for protecting cultural heritage. In order to distort reality once again, however, you are unsuccessful with phrases - "fireworks" about allegedly serving private and self-interest to create impressions. As you all know, lately thanks to the crucial contribution of the Onassis Foundation, an important project is being carried out in the Acropolis. A few weeks ago, lighting was attributed to the public, a worldwide project that made a decisive contribution to the promotion of the country and received many credits. On 3 December, the new elevator is delivered for use, an extremely difficult technical project, along with the new ones, which are not concrete. Mr. Corress had answered these, I've answered them myself. You're not convinced. On this occasion, the Greek section of UNESCO never commented on this matter. The Rock will be accessible to all its citizens and visitors, leaving to oblivion the shameful images of your own time. With regard to the existence or otherwise of initiatives for the protection of monuments and archaeological sites, I would like to inform you that for the last sixteen months, new projects have been integrated into the co-financed European projects throughout the territory and are signed with programme contracts for cultural development, which create hundreds of jobs. Efficient use of ESDP resources is our priority. Thus, between July 2019 and the end of October 2020, a hundred and eight new acts were incorporated, with a budget of EUR 87.5 million. I stress that at four years SYRIZA, there were a hundred seventy - eight works, eight in sixteen months, seventy - eight in four and a half years. I mean, we've raised it by 40.2%. The total legal commitments of the operations increased by 62.9% compared to the period 2015-2019. Similarly, the total amount of expenditure increased by 90.9% compared to the time of your administration. Unfortunately, the numbers are bothering you. It's hard to question. In the case of the Mycenaeans, which sparked the late interest in your prose, I tell you once again that the fire occurred outside the archaeological site and near it. Once the flames entered the archaeological site, the staff of the Antiquities Department reacted instantly, calling the Fire Service, coming back to the fire event point and evacuated the archaeological site. As the archaeological site was meticulously detached, the fire remained for a very short period of time, burning only the minimum residues of vegetation. Whether you like it or not, the destructive fire in the Mycenaeans coincides with the fall of the Atrines House millennia before. Do not constantly try to create impressions. The truth is disgusting to you. The photos of the site of October 31st, like the seventeen thousand visitors who went to the Mycena area from August 30th to the end of October, will disprove you from October to October. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I need two minutes from my dentistry, Mr President. Now we go to the Venizelos Station of Thessaloniki, an issue that you have made as a "mark" of your opposition speech, unprecedentedly tooling monuments. You insist that the Ministry of Culture lie, that it motivates the secondment and relocation of antiquities. However, the data and data exclude what you say and on the contrary demonstrate your disastrous management in the course of project implementation in 2015-2019. It is unacceptable with your objections to question the validity of the members of the CSCE, all of whom are persons of a well-known scientific weight and, above all, to leave clear suspicions of the objectivity and functioning of the Council of State. As you know, three opinions of the Central Archaeological Council periodically were in favour of the temporary secondment of antiquities and their reposition. One opinion in 2015 on the Staff Regulations is against. Let's see how things go. It is obvious that the study on the conservation of antiquities by country has never been signed by any engineer, but also by the practices of your government, because in 2017-2019 there was an absolute inertia and lack of any progress of the project in the promotion of the studies or construction of the station, as the construction of the cement-papers and the roof plate would have been made either the antiquities remained in their place or were temporarily transferred. I do not understand, I confess, your anguish to insist that we lie. We'll see who's lying at the end. But what I'm telling you is documented. According to the 2020 decision, the abstracted antiquities are reassigned to 92%. They don't disintegrate, as you systematically want to say. 92% repositioned. It is exactly the same percentage that, according to your own words, antiquities could emerge by country. Also, when antiquities get distracted, the underlying archives are evident to be excavated. If antiquities are not extracted, but move on from underlying excavations, the underlying ancients will be destroyed - that's not what you care about - while the above have a very high chance of collapse, so also their destruction. And that leaves you indifferent. As you know, the hearing in plenary session of the Council of State took place on 6 November. Today, in a short time, the deadline for submission of the pleadings has expired. Why don't you be patient in judging the court? For our part, we have complete confidence in his judgment and we are committed to complying with any decision he makes. That is the obligation of the administration. Last but not least, the issue of the Solidarity Fund. I understand the effort you have been making for a long time to involve the Government and me personally in the case of the Solidarity Fund, as you want to build a political scandal, a job that you know how to do very well. I repeat to you once again: the Fund, on our legislative initiative and with the adoption of the relevant administrative acts together with the Ministry of Finance, has been put into liquidation with Article 19 of Law 4639 of 2019. With the liquidation, which is ongoing, the assets and liabilities will be valued and all the financial outstandings of the fund will be closed, with the aim of realising it. Contrary to the practice of your government, which, while talking about corruption in the fund and depleting its actions in transmission of reports to the prosecutors, we are resolved decisively and definitively the issues of the fund. On the subject of disciplinary proceedings I have often said that the cases are in the main interrogation phase. Therefore, and in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 114 of the Civil Service Code, disciplinary proceedings have been suspended until the end of the main interrogation. This does not mean that it will not be exercised in the future. But I will perform my disciplinary duties, when and when the speeches are issued at the end of the main interrogation. To conclude, I would like to stress that it is self-evident that as far as matters as justice is concerned, the Ministry of Culture respects the procedures and awaits judgments. But I do not really understand why you are constantly asking me about the outcome of cases which you yourself have sent to justice. Justice will do its work in her time. We trust her. Why do you have so much anxiety? Further and with regard to private law staff for indefinite duration of the Solidarity Fund, I say to you: With Article 7 of Law 4598 of 2019, private law staff are transferred to the Ministry of Culture at positions corresponding to those which they had in the fund. A prerequisite for this inclusion was for the AACC to judge that this staff met the requirements of Articles 4 to 9 of the Staff Code, as well as the formal qualifications of the training grade and the specificity of the corresponding posts, in accordance with Presidential Decree 50/2001. Following a complaint concerning the legality of Article 7 of Law 4598, I addressed, as a debt, to the Legal Council of the State whether it was a question of legality in relation to the above transfer, given that it was not a question of officials who were recruited under public procedures and simply transferred to another sector, but of officials who were recruited to the Fund on the basis of procedures completely out of public procedure. The question was brought to the Plenary Assembly of the Legal Council of the State, which considered that Article 7 did in fact provide for the permanentisation of officials, even though this is prohibited by the Constitution after the 2001 Review. The opinion of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State was accepted and is therefore binding on the administration. Therefore, the question that the AACC considered, namely that the staff meets the standard qualifications, is unreliable since there is no question of transferring personnel to posts whose recommendation is not permitted by the Constitution. I would like to point out that the AACC has not dealt with the issue of unconstitutionality. With regard to the needs of the children of children of all the legal services of the Ministry of Culture, and not only for the children of the children of Attica, provision will be made for the first time by issuing the Staff Regulations in paragraph 4 of Article 19 of Law 4639, a childcare allowance in order to facilitate parents to the costs involved. This is not just about Attica, it is about the territory. The existing school station will continue to operate until the end of the school period and depending on the number of minors to be registered and in cooperation with the employees, its further course will be decided. I did not forget to give an answer to the issue of Kynosura. I'm not taking the rest of the time now. I'll do it in my denture. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force on 19-11-2020: Criminal case law concerning the officials of the ministers responsible for rural development and food affairs in the period 2015-2019: George Karasmani, Friday, Panagiotis Lafazani, Evangelos, Panagiotis Sguridis, Panagiotis (Panos) Skourletis, Dimitrios Mela, Markos Bolaris, Ioannis Tsironi, Vasilis Kokalis, Stavros Arachovitis, Olympia Telgioridou, Mavroudi Voridis, Fotini Arabatzi, Konstantinos Skrekas. We are going through the group of parliamentary representatives. We'll start with Mr. Skourletis, who has 12 minutes of protology, six minutes of dentology and three minutes of tritology. The other parliamentary representatives have six minutes of speaking time. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to make a reference, since we have had the opportunity to follow the statement of this year's budget shortly. And the President of Parliament, as he was received by him, said that it is an anniversary budget, because it coincides with the two hundred years since the establishment of the modern Greek state. I very much fear that it will be a budget which will bring about a full-fledged record that has no precedent. It will fall out as much as any previous budget deposited in this House. With what we know so far, there is an uprooting forecast and, in fact, with the logic that governs you for the economy, with the glamorous response of the crisis, with your attempt to keep, as you say, the back-up to the pandemic, I very much fear that this budget will be essentially a precursor to subsequent budgets, but the Memorandum Budgets. But we will be able to discuss all this in the next few days in detail in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, our debate is taking place at a very difficult time for Greek society. Our fellow citizens in northern Greece are faced with tragic situations. Yesterday we had a new record of cases, while the health system in northern Greece seems to be bent, it can't stand. A few hours ago, the order of two hundred beds was announced. The reasonable questions we have to answer - and above all the government with responsibility for manipulations - are as follows: was this development inevitable? Was it a law school? Did we have to come all these months later to be forced, seeing the major deficiencies in the public health system, to talk about a requisition? Why didn't we do it earlier? Why, before leading to this suffocating situation, did we not take the necessary measures, first of all, to strengthen public health by recruitment, permanent recruitment? And we arrived at this grotesque, a few days ago here, in the House, to come the competent Minister of Health and speak of three hundred permanent new recruitments - only three hundred! - when we have established needs for thousands of recruits of permanent, medical and nursing staff. You didn't. We told you specifically. We've launched it to you as an outgoing government. There was a specific programme of fifteen thousand recruitments. You ignored it. You ignored all the suggestions in relation to the need to take measures in public transport, which have proved to be the transponders of the virus. You didn't do anything. You had a completely poor management of tourism issues and you arrived yesterday to say that you had to shut down certain border gates and check with specific diagnostic tests for those entering the country. Why didn't this summer happen? What did this money that came to us as a tourist currency in relation to what we are now called to spend on bringing about the great damage that was done by bad tourism management? Have you figured this out? But of course, we liked fine words, fine moments under the sunset in Santorini. That's what you're first on. No one's enough for you. Honestly, you've been over there before. You have a know-how in selling bubbles, which has no precedent. You have flammed us in lies. But here's where we've been driven. The big question is what is going on with the public health system? Private clinicians say: 'We can't. And that's a great truth. When you want to secure the public health asset, you need a strong public health system. Forget what you said about PPP and apologize to the Greek people today, because you are driving things in very difficult and tragic situations. Even now, then, do you see the correctness of our proposal that there should be a joint action in the field of health? So here's why we told you about a common person at the place of the Minister of Health, with a specific support plan. Thessaloniki is precisely the personalization, the imprinting of the wrong way of dealing with pandemic. A month ago you dated and told us proudly that Thessaloniki did what it had to do and has left the coronary behind, and we just went to massive daily streets tests, we suddenly saw some indicators with 30% of the citizens hospitalized. We are, lastly, eighteen since the end, in the ranking of the mass-testing countries. So all retrospectively. Why? Because obviously this expenditure on you is unnecessary. "There we will throw our money? " The government representative said so. You heard it before. The SYRIZA colleagues have said so too. That is the perception of you. It seems, however, that this view of unnecessary expenditure, of the policies that come to a second degree, also characterises you in too many other fields. In some things, of course, you are truly consistent. You are consistent on the issues of privatisation. These haven't gone out of the way. These come one after the other, they're on their way. You are committed to privatising subsidiary insurance. You are consistent with the attack on labour rights. The greatest opportunity for you, through this tragedy that humanity lives today, is how you change the balance between the world of capital and work. Decrease of work! For the first time, you bring here a bill that says that overtime workers for the overtime worked will not be paid, but we will be able to offset them with some other days that we will not have that much work. But what, "out of the shade fly" do you want to get out of it? So this notion, which is evident in these areas of your policy, seems to be the subject of culture as well. That is why you have had an incomplete policy for the past time. You left the world of culture in its luck. We've seen situations without coordination, no programming. You announced things that were ultimately incomplete and we now have a drop in the turnover, for example, in the field of singing by 95%, while they are more than half the people of artistic creation than the measures you have announced and we are faced with again with images of skates in northern Greece. And you come here unscrupulous, unscrupulous and proud of your work in culture and "knock on your finger" on SYRIZA. Things are incomprehensible! We may not understand them because we are the Civic Opposition. But where are the people of civilization toward you? Doesn't that mean anything to you? You don't care about everyone? No attempt to get in touch with the municipalities so that there is a regional policy in the field of municipal theatres. Nothing! Did you sit down with your colleague, Mr. Theodorikos, see what is going on or do you think that this whole case is finally related to some well-known people of culture who are privileged to go into government living rooms? Because that's what you've been doing so far. I heard you a moment ago talking about the Solidarity Fund for officials of the Ministry of Culture. My impression is that you want to cover things, that you want to cover things. That's how you look. I now go to the theme of the ancient Venizelos in Thessaloniki. First of all, your resignation seems to be the synonym of metro delay. You have deceived the citizens of Thessaloniki for decades around the subway, either when they were your executives as mayors who did big holes and inaugurated them, either by the delay of the project, by a thousand or two ways, or by the stop of the last in government of Samaras in 2014. While the government of SYRIZA ran the project and while specific studies have been filed - they were submitted a little while ago - that exactly respect the historical footprint in this city of northern Greece, the capital of the Balkans, the co-chairman, as we call it in our country, you come and adopt a perception of dismantling the ancients and history and at a cost and at a cost in relation to the time of completion of the metro. Mr Samaras said the same thing and you regained the thread with that logic. You have huge responsibilities towards the history of the city and towards the people of culture, but also in the global cultural community, which tells you: 'What are you doing? Rise and shine.’ You ignore it and with this same style that characterizes you continue this "successful" work of yours. Things are tragic. So we're telling you right now: Open bookshops with a seventh sms, so people can go to bookshops. That's how much we're gonna be in danger? Is there such a big health risk? Give 'oxygen', breathe life, breathe culture. Give these difficult times when the other man sits at his house, the possibility of getting a book in his hands. It's creative. It's a zoo. It's giving power. Don't deprive them of it. Take brave measures right now for the people of culture. The record you said, which you are proud of, and you say that "two and a half thousand people were not registered, etc.", is very little on the basis of reality. Over 50% of the people of artistic creation are outside your policy, from the perspective of your policy. Don't smoke the money in culture. Culture ate a large "shadow" in the previous years of the memorandum, can't stand a second. It could be the damage he's going to suffer. Do not connect your name to this, nor should your Government be that government that in its days will be led to the states of an vast cultural cemetery. That was why our total space for the workers - Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou told you before, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou - has put forward concrete proposals for aid for those who have been working in enterprises that have suspended their activities through the state of the Christmas gift, but also for those who are not registered and who are far more than sixteen thousand in the cultural sector, so as to be strengthened by specific measures: EUR 400 for the first adult member of each family, EUR 200 for every second, EUR 100 for each child. In there are the people of culture. And one more thing that you may not have to bear in mind and I think you should consult with Mr Brutsi. Do you know, at the moment, from people who appear to be employed in over two companies, for example, theatrical ones, that because they have this specificity, the "ERGANI" system throws them out and do not receive aid from either side? Is that so hard to solve? This great Mr. Pierracakis can't deal with it digitally? You don't want or is this money too? Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all understand that things are difficult. It is not a form of speech that civilization, people of culture, faces the issue of survival. Before, then, it is late, we need to change policy, we need to overcome, we need to face this existential crisis in the field of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Bougas, has the floor for six minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u111	Mr. President, the total time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u112	Six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what has taken place in the last few days, but what is happening in the Chamber in the debate on the SYRIZA question, demonstrates that the Qualitative Opposition not only lies in an absolute failure to make a responsible and constructive opposition, but is incapable of opposing the government. Continuing on by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, the sloppy and prestigious behavior, the Parliamentary spokesman has rushed to criticise the budget before he even reads it. I think that is unprecedented in parliamentary terms. Also, the speech of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, in conjunction with what they saw the light of publicity and the publications of "AGEI" in the previous days, clearly shows that the Civic Response is investing in the failure of the government, the scientific community, the country in general and does not have proposals to deal with the pandemic. I will give an example of this. Mr Skourletis referred to tourism, and he asked: 'Finally, these billions that came from the opening up of tourism are balanced with what we are obliged to pay now to deal with the crisis'. I think that instead of urging you to take a clear position, are you and your party obliged to say clearly what your view is, should tourism or not be opened? And secondly, do you consider it responsible to open up tourism for the second wave of the pandemic? Because it's not enough to criticize. You must have an opinion. As far as the orders are concerned. Since the first day, SYRIZA’s colleagues have insisted that the government should order private clinics. I think you were ignoring that the order has a cost. It is not free to order means of property, i.e. mobile or immovable, and services. It's a public cost. Do you think the data in the past few months justified the requisition? When the need arose, the government, acting organized, overall and in planning, did what it had to do. He put in the service of the public health system, the ESS, and the private clinics. And with regard to the allegations made by the beds that they are unable or may not be able to deal with the incidents, you must know, ladies and gentlemen, that the operation of intensive care units in private hospitals, in private clinics, will be under the scientific guidance of doctors in public hospitals. As a result, there is absolutely no danger. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the public health system is being tested by an unprecedented pandemic as much as a pandemic. To deal with it, all of us need to make a contribution. The government is doing everything possible to halt the pandemic wave by mobilising all health units and capabilities. Two are our priorities. First and foremost is the health response to the crisis. Secondly, we always stand close to the citizens, especially to the most vulnerable. Support for society and the economy is a government priority, and it does so by showing solidarity with those who currently need it. As far as the topical question is concerned, I think that the speech by the Minister was excellent because he dealt with all the questions in good time and with specific answers. And the contradiction can be seen, the honourable Members, who have had the burden of supporting specifically and with examples of what they say in their question, have been in an absolute impossibility to do so and have resorted to generalities, without the possibility of specific facts and specific arguments supporting what they critically refer to in their question for the government. And since I would like to say a few words in general, in response to the questions raised by the question, we must accept - and I think that this is a common assumption to all those involved in the area of culture - that the government has given priority to the development of public policies for our culture, material and intangible cultural heritage and contemporary artistic creation. We're constantly questioning the situation. We're hierarchizing needs. We are looking for realistic policies, with tangible and measurable results in the quality of life of citizens, in cultural entrepreneurship, in local, regional and national development. While culture is our great comparative advantage, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the country in 2015-2019 has not been able to capitalise on the potential of its cultural heritage so that there is added value internationally. Today the unprecedented pandemic crisis affects all economic and social activities and the cultural sector as a whole. Taking further restrictive measures and everything that is being played in the second wave of the pandemic creates asphyxiative conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, with the endless will, which is announced every day by the government and the Minister, that we are here to support our cultural heritage and modern cultural creation, all the political initiatives taken by the government to make sure that they are implemented. And the people of culture will also be supported, but also a planning for the next day, so that we can give the added value that the conditions in culture require and have our culture as an area of sustainable development. I have no more time, Mr President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you for your time too. Now Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that culture is irreparably affected by the pandemic. We have tabled our proposals after a fruitful and constructive dialogue with representatives of artistic institutions. Some of our proposals, Minister, you have accepted them, some of them are not, and indeed, on the pretext of lack of competence. But the state, ladies and gentlemen, has horizontal action and horizontal operation. Alas, at this juncture, we are faced with state support differently, that is, with the responsibility of each minister from the court. You told us, Minister, that the workers of Culture joined the horizontal support measures implemented for all workers. Yes, but not everyone, since there was no record in spring 2020. You told us that the Ministry is implementing a special cultural support programme of EUR 25 million. But the money hasn't reached the right-holders' pockets. Proof is that the grants you announced for the free theatre of EUR 2,000,000 have not yet been received by the producers. In particular, the EUR 600,000, which has not yet been paid, has been covered by the applications submitted. For the rest, there is no information at all. Madam Minister, we discussed earlier on the Special Assistance Fund. We're telling you again that it's a solution that will bring immediate results. Why? Because it can be used directly and financed from the funds allocated to self-government for cultural actions totalling EUR 87 000 000. It was money that was meant for culture. Let's give it to you through the Relief Fund. You told us earlier, Minister, that for the cancelled representations by municipalities and regions you cannot intervene in self-government. But you can invite a new working meeting with the CEDEFOP and draw up an action plan on how to support the cultural activity of the site. After all, for all of us the state has a horizontal function. I would say, in fact, that the Special Assistance Fund could be supported by the sectors and enterprises favoured by Lockdown. It is enough, of course, to invite the Ministry for similar partnerships and similar actions. You told us that the Ministry could not do the pre-marketing of special performances, that it cannot be considered as State aid. But I would say here, Minister, that at this very moment, at this difficult juncture, because of the horn pandemic, society and, in particular, culture, need state aid. I would say, indeed, that culture needs brave support, with the corresponding, of course, protection of intellectual and related rights for digital reproduction. You told us that you were applying the vacancies subsidy. There is a need to change the type of subsidy calculation and to increase the measure of performances to thirty, as the theatres operate seven days. Of course, today they don't work because of the pandemic. The subsidy rate for closed theatres must also be increased to at least 30%. We pointed this out to you and when you had brought the order to the vote. In your face, Minister, a good practice is summarised, I would say, which should be a given one. What practice? The continuity of the state. You've been serving the Ministry of Culture for years. You have a solid knowledge of matters and a great deal of experience. That is why we cannot accept the incompetence of issues burning in this adventure that we are living in. The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has undoubtedly affected the work of all of us and the work of the Ministry. We as a opposition are here to find consent, not to sterile confrontation. Minister, what is the road map for the operation of the art sites ahead of a difficult winter? Science. The experts are checking, evaluating the data and setting limits. But you must put plan B. However, the problems of culture do not stop in the face of the pandemic crisis. The people of culture want solutions and vision. The Ministry will therefore have to respond to what it will do about the absence of a higher degree for graduates of public and private artistic studies, for complex and insecure employment relationships and collective labour contracts in culture. You should also tell us about your project on artistic education in schools. THE PUBLIC PLAYS PLAY. What is your vision of PPCTIs, where Melina Mercouri was inspired as a pillar of cultural development and creativity in the region? What are the first results of the "All Greece a culture" institution? How many productions were finally made, in which places and how many artists were employed? School of Ancient Drama: We have proposed and restored our proposal to create a public school of ancient drama in Greece. It is certain that it will attract students and teachers from all over the world. I'm coming to the museums. There is widespread concern about the sustainability of many museums. The reduction in tourism and the restrictive measures have affected the availability and revenue of tickets. Minister, the draft law on the modernisation and reorganisation of the Archaeological Resources Fund, which has been put into public consultation, includes the acceptance of the donation and the establishment of a private legal person for the Museum - Bran, Lesbos. You know this very well. You know the museum. We expect that the final text of this bill will respond to the will of the late Nicos Koundouros and Angelos Delivoria. We expect it to mark and promote, in fact, the public's cooperation with the group of citizens that created it, and in particular the cultural donor "ARTIPELAGOS". Minister, another serious issue is the damage that exists to monuments and archaeological sites both in their incomes from reduced visitability due to pandemic, as well as in the level of damage from the severe weather phenomena that have occurred in recent years in our country because of climate change. We propose that, in cooperation, I say, with Civil Protection, an emergency action plan to address the impact of weather events or other exceptional situations. Minister, culture in times of crisis is turning, I would say, into a refuge for people. You have a duty to shield culture, you have a duty to do our vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u116	And we, Mr. Constantopoulos, for your time. Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for six minutes. After Mr Delis the floor, the Greek Parliamentary Representative will be given the floor and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Members will then begin to have their seconds. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u117	Lack of strategy is imputing SYRIZA to the Government in the field of culture, as well as a policy that persists in communication and not in substance, arranges rather than legislate, hides instead of accountable and opportune to the consequences of the health crisis. Although this criticism of the government is heavy, in fact it is also shallow and unresolved and therefore extremely convenient for the government. First of all, a culture strategy is available and implemented by the Government of New Democracy. SYRIZA is well aware of this strategy. He served her as a government himself. This is the commercialisation of all kinds of cultural object and as a result, the subjection, the captivity of culture in general, in levers and underscore of the profitability of large, of course, businesses. It is concentrated - if you would like - on the conversion of an archaeological site into an investment site, which is well-built and buildable, such as in the business project of the former Greek airport, with the signature of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. But let's see this government's statutes too. Are they suffering from a lack of strategy, as SYRIZA claims? I guess not. They reflect their class character and their provisions deepen and extend the commercialisation of culture, while creating an extremely suffocating framework for artists and old and young people. Let us look at two typical examples. The National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications, passed by SYRIZA to attract investors to the audiovisual sector and, at the same time, brought a dramatic downturn in support measures to self-employed directors, producers, a law passed by SYRIZA. Did New Democracy question this law? No, on the contrary, it strengthened it with additional financial incentives for large companies, including the beneficiaries of this law and private television channels. Another example is the 'Acropolis' which was voted on last summer. This bill New Democracy from SYRIZA received it to institutionalise it, of course by making similar amendments and adjustments, but leaving its core intact. Who's that nucleus? The creation of a state centre to support the concentration of the small production of artistic works in larger enterprises and the expansion of commercialisation in art. These were also foreseen in the plan prepared by SYRIZA. As for PPC, one cuts and the other sews, given the time responsibilities of the previous governments. We do not forget that SYRIZA set the way in that famous transitional period of the PPC, taking a first step towards reforming the institution on the basis of criteria, such as professional theatrical activity, financial support for municipalities, the existence of artistic direction, synergy, co-productions. Indeed, these co-productions with companies or private theatre producers have since been established to be one of the criteria for the evaluation of these PPCs to finance them. So New Democracy is coming now and wants all this step taken by SYRIZA to take it further, changing their legal framework, strengthening their return function and turning it into anonymous companies. With regard to the management of the pandemic by New Democracy, the main problem, you know, is not its inability or its reduced interest in culture in the midst of COVID -19 or ideas, obsessions and reunification - these are written in the question of SYRIZA - the Minister of Culture, which means, of course, that this is another attempt to incriminate persons, so that the common strategic line is acquitted. I wish that was it. It would be sorted out and quite easy. Unfortunately, it's much deeper. It is the fact that the political management of the pandemic has a very specific class content and, of course, the respective priorities, with a central objective: ensuring the profitability of the business groups on whose altar the rights of workers are sacrificed. And so it can be explained why the government closes the theatres and musical spaces while leaving hotels open and suffocating people to planes, ships, public transport. Because its policy is based on the well-being of business groups and not on the needs of workers, which is, of course, the art of which is also, and which is why it is facing culture as a second-stage sector. Why, in addition? Because the cultural sector's contribution to the profitability of the capitalist economy is of course smaller than that of tourism, transport and other sectors. Will you now tell me that the government does not hesitate to even sacrifice the health of the people on the altar of capitalist profitability, refusing to create new beds and hire health workers, will it stick to culture? That is why not half of the hundred thousand to 100 thousand according to the Ministry have received any benefits. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, in a moment. That is why they did not see support measures for thousands of small professionals and small businesses. That is why authors, with or without the SAR, see with telescope or at all any subsidies while the large television producers buy 15,000 euros per episode for daily rhetoric, which in addition also have large revenues from advertising, but the wages paid by actors there are growing short, while technicians are forced to exhaust fifteen hours. If this is not challenging support for business interests, what is it? Incompetence and lack of strategy? This is the strategy of government policy and of the European Union: removing rights and conquests from the employee, the self-employed, the microprofessional, to increase the profits of the large. It is characteristic that even provisions were made so that, in order to qualify for a production, the actor or dancer, for example, should be paid a salary of between EUR 400 and 600, as well as their related rights. This attack also occurs in the state institutions of culture, in the work of a blockage. The administration of the National Theatre signed a contract which provides for a 20% reduction in wages. What's going on abroad? Because SYRIZA mentions it in his question as an example that it is only in Greece. Same and worse! Even in strong economic countries, such as Germany and England, the actors who live exclusively from their profession barely and reach 2%, while large lyric artists in Germany are rewarded with the track, are rehearsing and we have, of course, massive redundancies of artists in the opera in New York, so that we do not think they are done only in our country. Everywhere in the same way, governments that manage this system manage pandemic. This is the culture of this system, it could not be different, regardless of which governments are serving it, whether they are liberal or social-democratic. The problem will no longer be a problem, when art will cease to be a commodity, and when the measure for the development and progress of a society is not the business profit, but the needs of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution, followed by Mrs. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Since today's subject is culture, I think that even today in plenary you have set up another nice theatre, a fine yet another theatrical performance, a theatre of absurdity on both sides of course, as always happens in this Chamber, well-paid expatriates who either applaud or of course follow the necessary political "bottle" of the opponents. That's right. I'm trying to tell you that we're here to reveal and unravel if you want your so-called chicken battles, which apply to every issue. From culture to the most important, economy, national issues, whatever else, you are the same, desperately the same on all major and important issues. Just know, for this country, Minister, and for the whole planet our culture is of great value, and it is also extremely important. We're starting with the Acropolis. We cannot talk about culture today in this Chamber, in today's debate, Minister, since then - when you have been cementing the Holy Rock. Every conversation about culture goes awkward. You have cemented the Holy Rock. It's a fierce and political felony of what you've done. You threw cement. And we've testified to you for too long - I'm going to submit it once again - the study, the proposal of premeditated traffic runway construction for Acropolis Holy Rock. It is a proposal to study diplomat architects and engineers of the Greek Solution. I will once more testify to it at the end, all together, in the Minutes. It's cheaper and you respect the monument, the Holy Rock. Not everything gets glue. Let's go get the Acropolis. I'll put it in the Minutes at the end. We are now talking about culture and how we deal with it. You did the same when you closed the Acropolis in 2018. He had 39C heat and you closed the Acropolis. Tourists came from thousands of places on the planet, hundreds of thousands of tourists and found the Acropolis closed. So the pyramids should be permanently closed, heat and heat all the time. I mean, hypocrisy sometimes goes too far. And what culture are we talking about, Minister? Others have told you. In the summer they almost burned the Mycenes. Amphipolis and the greatness of Tymvos Kasta have abandoned it. That's it. You have done nothing for the desecration of the Turks in Agia Sophia and the Monastery of the country. Are we talking about culture here today when you're planting in archaeological sites illegal immigrants? You have converted archaeological site in Kos into a camp of illegal immigrants. I'll testify to that in the Minutes, and that's when I'm done. If any of the things I'm saying isn't true, I expect you to deny it. And of course I want to know if you've already been affected by the finding, the image of the bust that was found a few days ago here in Ayolos, where black people have been filled. That is why we say our culture is too rich. And now we're going to the subway, because I'm also a Thessaloniki congressman. Well, any confrontation between the New Democracy and SYRIZA on the subway is an insult and a rape of the logic of Thessaloniki's citizens, no matter what you say. You can't talk about the subway, it's a joke. It takes courage to confront you on the subway and constantly mock the Thessalonians and fight about whether or not the ancients, "we", "you". Fifty years for a kilometre of work. It's unbelievable! And you're looking, Minister, like you said before, who's lying. You're all lying. It cannot be that such a project has not gone so far, to underestimate us so much that the second largest city in the class of our country has a second public transport instrument. Do we have any rotten buses that the cosmakis is stacking and we're talking about the subway now? For God's sake, we should be a little more serious about all this. Let's go to the books, part of our culture. You haven't done anything about books, like the coronary's being transmitted from the books. Nothing at all! The book actually embodies our culture and culture and cultivates education. You have done nothing at all, you have not supported this sector at all. However, the only virus that can be broadcast from books, as we speak about books, is the "Anthelenovirus". [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] And we will now go to the books our children are taught, Minister. We should all be ashamed of what Greeks are taught by unwilling texts that offend our history and nation. Mr President, I will put it in the Minutes. The Greeks are taught that in 1940 we hid in the basements and ran to the banks. Let's take a look at these later. They're not ours. Even texts, Minister, what I am about to say is very serious, we have tabled a relevant question - which promote paedophilia. Can you believe it? Listen, ladies and gentlemen, it is not mine, through the book: "Sakis was an electrician of twenty-six years old and made them with a beautiful, long neck, long hands, fifteen-sixteen years old." With a minor! Is that what our children are teaching? That's shocking! Shock! Some of you are teachers and teachers in here, and we're all parents. Fifteen-sixteen-sixteen-year-olds. Isn't that a juvenile girl? Is this an example of what we bring? I don't really know if it's funny what I'm saying or not. For me, they're creepy. It is regrettable for artists - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - that the Ministry has not been able and cannot stand up to the circumstances. Ignore art and the people of art as if these people were not there. It sounded right a while ago, and I'm going to say it's not all superstars with their contracts. They're people who are hungry, hungry, and we didn't support them at all. You have made an amendment, you have made some crumbs of EUR 4 to 10 for the minimum coverage of tickets, and that is it. There are people who are hungry and you are acting like an incredible hypocrisy. I have just finished, Mr President, I would just like you, Mr Ministers, to see this with school books. These are inadmissible things really. I'll give it to the Minutes to see you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, too. Please prepare the Step sanitary. I call on the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that artists and those involved in the production of cultural products have been tested since the beginning of the pandemic. They are excluded not only from their work, but also from any support in response to the recession that occurs and the crisis due to the coronary. They have been faced not only with the lack of support measures, but even with the disdain on the part of the Ministry, which has even reached the point calling them under arrest tax-gatherers. The Artists' Registry, which you introduced, although a positive step, is, however, as the Panhellenic Acroma View Federation quite rightly points out in its requests, has unfortunately not been able to register, precisely because the deadline for registration expired on 20 October. You said, Minister, in your speech, that workers are uncharted and are not detected. That is just another reason to extend the deadline so that the majority of these people are not excluded from access to benefits. Amidst this sector's deep frustration with concerts canceled, with the theaters and cinemas being closed, the art workers see that they are faced with the risk of occupational and economic extinction. As parliamentarians we have tabled many questions which have remained unanswered in the context of parliamentary scrutiny. What we have been dealing with on the part of the Ministry has been avoidance, disorientation, lack of coherent planning and greater indifference. In summary, I would like to return to some of the open issues on which the Ministry has not been placed and has not taken any action. We are also waiting for him to tell us what he has done in relation to the management and use of his buildings to save resources that will be channelled not into rents, but to cultural works. The Ministry's institutional proposals for financial incentives to owners for the restoration of monuments and buildings within historical sites, such as Plaka, are pending. Within the framework of the UN's sustainable development objectives, synergies with co-operating ministries and universities remain in drawers, in order to have a package of measures, but also good practices to maintain and restore our national heritage. While unanswered, unfortunately, they remain the questions and requests put by the Panhellenic Observation Federation, which, in a letter dated 2 November 2020 and in a letter dated 13 November 2020, asks: First, how many incidents from 1 July to today are connected through tracking with cultural events? How many spectators showed positive for random tests? With regard to their requests, they call for the full compensation of workers who would participate in events canceled by regions, municipalities and bodies, to proceed immediately with the compensation appropriations to the beneficiaries for the months of September and October, to be included in the special purpose compensation for those who did not have the time limit for registration, namely those who joined the register after 20 October. With respect to the specific purpose allowance of EUR 800 in category L1, they shall request that there be no final date of registration. We recall that, contrary to the benefit of September and October and despite your announcements, the end date for registration for this allowance is 15 October and not 20 October. They are still asking for an automatic extension of the allowance for the months of November and December, i.e. for as long as the workplaces are closed. They ask those who are compensated through a register to be beneficiaries and to reduce the rent, as is the case with job suspensions, to suspend the payment of late payment, to provide them with the heating allowance, to extend the unemployment benefit for the unemployed as long as the areas are closed, to abolish the trade fee for workers in culture. Similar requests are made by the Herodian travelers, for whom the government had announced on September 18 that the concerts will be suspended. However, their contracts remained in force until 12 October 2020. On the one hand, they have not been paid, they have not been compensated for lost days, they have not been paid for a special allowance because there is no possibility of being able to join the special purpose compensation, since the contract of employment has remained in force and they cannot even apply for membership of the OAS. I would like to end by mentioning the main proposals of Mera25 on culture, as a stimulus for a more creative debate. First of all, we believe that cultural work cannot be dealt with in terms of markets because it is incompatible with the logic of 'profit or death'. We focus on professional culture and also on cultural works of amateur artists and social movements. We want to strengthen public resources for culture. We call for the removal of parties and organized and synergistic interests from the cultural sector. This policy will be formulated by a competent consultative board with incomplete operation, a nine-member bureau composed of three members from some groups. We are proposing the establishment of a fund of cultural solidarity between authors, through which authors will be able to promote the taxes they pay to the State as sponsors of another sector. This fund will be administered by authors who undertake unpaid management of the grants. We are proposing the establishment of a promotional agency for Greek cultural products abroad. We call for the protection of domestic cultural and artistic production with quotas of domestic content in the media, not only by quantitative but also qualitative criteria. We want to strengthen the foundation of artistic and musical schools and high school throughout the country. We provide for a special tax of 2% on the selling price of smartphones, tablets and computers as a compensation for monster piracy that we see online. Finally, we propose that 3% with 5% of the inputs from Facebook, Amazon, Netflix, Google and Spotify platforms should be returned through the various rights as recycled financial support to creators, people producing culture. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that the active support of the people of culture is an unnegotiable condition when we want to talk about upgrading both the cultural product and the quality of life of all of us. We therefore call on all progressive forces in association with the disastrous government choices, in an area which must be common property and common concern for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. We're on our way to the secondary stage. I would like to ask everyone to keep the time. As I watched and watched from the interior circuit, most of you have taken a lot more time in protology. Let us keep at least the time of dentistry without excesses. I will call on Stepma the first of the servants, SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Ms. Athanasia (Sia) Anagnostopoulou, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u123	He's given me all three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u124	It's okay. I said something at first. Because most people took a lot of time in protology, I don't want to start making setbacks and advances. I said that at least now in five minutes' time. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President, but the Minister spoke for twenty-six minutes and at least some of the points need to be answered. Lies again, distortions of reality. But with lies, we're not going through this crisis. Of course, you'll tell me here from this step that half the 37 billion-dollar pillow made it from the country's Prime Minister, won't you lie so much? I'll talk to you. Madam Minister, I would like to make two things clear and stop finally hitting the previous government, as if you were oppositioning the Civic Opposition. Firstly, we are proud of our policy on copyright and the protection of creators. We are proud to rescue the public cultural institutions that we have received from you bankrupt. We are proud of the establishment of the Metropolitan Organization of Museums of Visual Arts of Thessaloniki. We are proud of the upgrading of the Ministry's Register of Cultural Entities and the restoration of the single price of books. We are proud of the law that we prepared - unfortunately, you did not pass it through the House - for a national book policy, for the CSR, when you were a secretary-general at the time when it was abolished. I want to ask the following question now. You are telling us about the Hellenic Foundation for Culture. In this country there is a person, in fact civilised, who accepts Mr Tsukala's replacement with Mr Cook, who told the publishers and not much that 'here is my shop and I will do what I want'. Mr. Kookis across from Mr. Tsukala! That's what he says. We're proud of the online ticket in the archaeological sites. We're proud of what happened at the National Gallery, which you're now saying has not happened. We are proud of the fact that we have prepared the tenders so that the directors of the supervising bodies can be from competitions. You abolished it. We are proud of the Museum of Contemporary Art, which still has no director. We are proud to have completed the NSRFs that had been uncompleted since you were Secretary-General and would have responded to the projects. We're proud of the two hundred ready for you to pick them up. We are proud of the grants you had cut in 2011 and many more. I urge you, Minister, to deal with what the SYRIZA government has done. He didn't do everything, he didn't always do it the right way, but under the circumstances and for four and a half years, he did too much. Minister, I ask you here because I have learned to respect my interlocutors, to respect all citizens and those with a huge institutional role. What did you do to the Council of State? Because we do not call into question the Council, as you are trying to raise, but here we are asking to know what you have done in the Council of State. Madam Minister, we don't see each other about the antiquities of Thessaloniki. Who are we anyway? The whole scientific world says it's international and domestic. I am presenting to you here for the Minutes of the House the statements made by Mr Koumousis. Do you know the honest professor of the National Technical University who was at the CAS and you know what he says about the manipulations that took place in CAS? Answer Mr. Kumoussi, not me, Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to finish by saying one thing. We have tabled a specific programme, Minister, and we have tabled what workers themselves say in culture, not what we say. They were filed in the Minutes. Take them and read them. Documents of the GOD, the musicians, etc. were deposited. But I have one thing to ask you. Specific cost-effective measures have been tabled. I ask now: will you support the amendment we tabled next week to the bill of strengthening the world of culture, with a repertoire quota, first and second, with significant support from the SADs to strengthen the natural persons, the beneficiaries, for copyright and related rights, with VAT at 6% for all that I have analysed earlier and will we analyse next week? You are proud, Minister, for cooperation in the public and private sectors. We saw it. Thessaloniki is proof with private clinics not responding and the public again raises the burden, this heroic world of nurses and doctors of the National Health System. National solidarity may exist when the government inspires national solidarity, when it does not divide exquisite and unprecedented, visible and invisible, those who deserve and those who are not worth it. Madam Minister, I respect you, as I respect everyone and your colleagues in the New Democracy know. But I have stopped for some time doubting who you are serving at the Ministry of Culture. The living don't support them. The cultural heritage that the dead have left, too, do not support it. Who do you finally support? I want specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u126	Please prepare the Step sanitary. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, before you started, you compared time. I'd say don't. And you spoke in your protology instead of ten minutes, fifteen and thirty-seven, that is more than twice as much time as you had. The Minister did speak for twenty-six minutes, that is, one quarter of the time allowed. I do not want to say to other colleagues how much they have spoken and how much they should have spoken. When you make such contributions, you force the Bureau to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u127	I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u128	And now I didn't stop talking six and thirty-five. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Now, I'd like to call SYRIZA's MP at the Step. Progressive alliance, Panos the rustler. I call it Pano because we have been in the same region for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u129	And we're short-haired.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u130	Here, Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is exemplary in turning black into white and it is wonderful that the Minister's obsession with supporting false evidence is admirable. We really understand it. It is very difficult to see her coming every time and not having any new arguments, to have nothing to produce in the dialogue new. We really understand that, but no matter how much you feel about a situation, you have to put things to their right dimension. Of course, all this is because there is media superpower. The Pecha list has done its job very well. It's effective, let's say. I respect Mr. Corres and Mr. Tanula. But in many of these instruments the Pecha list has benefited, there's only Mr. Corres. Mr. Tanulas, who was there and a disciple of the late John Trail, is not as an opinion. I'm not an archaeologist, either. However, I am indebted to hearing more than one point of view in these instruments that we read the Minister's responses to Mr Skourico, for example, but there is nowhere to ask, or there is one and a half lines from the question. We heard about the CIA. After you have so much confidence in the Central Archaeological Council, Minister, then why have you changed its composition? Unless you have confidence in today's CIA and you don't have the previous one. In any case, you spoke about cinema, you talked about so many other things. It will start to shout and the Vice-President is right that we don't have time. Did you read the statement by George Gregorakis, the multi-earned director? Can I read it to you? It is today a statement: "Government film support is inadequate and the emergency need of the pandemic has made it more incomplete". What to start with? For Mr Koumousis who denounces that he did not enter the text supporting the preservation of the monumental set without secondment and relocation? Are artists ungrateful anyway? Are they ungrateful? Are so much money coming that you advertise and will be advertised tomorrow, specifically mass communication, making so much money and facing you with so much unidentifiedness? So, what do you mean? That they're opening the door and taking the bag from the pool and the money that the government is distributing are sent to Switzerland? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, - I am finished, Mr President - your relationship with culture as a movement, as a creation, as a question of social and public good, has never been good, I mean the relationships of the conservative party with all of this world. The pandemic just revealed your real face. For you, his culture and people are thrown in money and it doesn't surprise us and we can't change your mind. You're not moving on to disrespecting the people of the area unless they're heterogeneous. There's something going on. But the people of culture, the people who have been tested for years far more than Flevaris with the pandemic know, measure and make sure you don't mock them. You're not fooling anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Although you have consumed your time, I am talking about Ms. Vetta and Ms. Malama, if they want I can give them the floor, because I see you're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u133	No, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u134	No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u135	So we're moving on. Mr. Vernardakis is here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Bernardakis doesn't want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u137	He's spent his time in protology, but if he was here, I'd give the floor. The Minister for Culture and Sport, Mrs Mendoni, will therefore take the floor again. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, because I have heard from Mrs. Anagnostopoulou since morning, which, of course, I, too, respect, that we are lying, lying, lying. I wonder if what she's saying realizes she's a lie, a lie, a lie. And when I say her, I don't only mean personally, I mean to represent her party. Let's see what the lies are. We have already heard from your Member that it was our intention to privatise museums. That's a lie. We never said we wanted to privatize museums. We have said that we want the large museums, which now function as the regional agencies of the Ministry, to become legal entities governed by public law. Where's the privatisation? You tell us that the Venizelos station, i.e. the ancient Venizelos, will be deprived of the possibility at one time, if it arises, if justified by the criteria, to join UNESCO, because they will have moved, seconded and reassigned. It is a lie, because Abu Sibel, which was designated by UNESCO, moved by about eighty-eight meters, and UNESCO did not react, not to the Prague bridge, not to go to many other examples. So it's a lie. Let's go down. You were supposed to run the subway project in Thessaloniki when you didn't do anything. So don't laugh. [[Laughers and noise from the wing of SYRIZA]] I didn't interrupt you. Of course, you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u139	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u140	One moment you only ran, when you were trying to convince that you have gone ahead with the work inaugurating the mustaches. Then you just ran. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I'll come to all the issues. I have no problem answering you. Obviously you are proud of what you have done, of course, you are proud of what you have done, which, if you had done it in a different way, you would not have put culture on suspension for four and a half years. Of course you are proud of what you are doing, as you are proud of the assignment of the ten thousand real estate monuments to the superstition. This, of course, has been corrected by pressure from counter-population. In the face of what you did something was that. Now we're going to Kynosura. Kinosura has been declared an archaeological site and has become zone I since 2003 by successive decisions until 2011 and no one doubts that Kinosura is zone I because it has much more antiquities than in the collective memory of younger generations it has joined as a Tumble of Salamimanians. That's why archaeological site had to be declared, and that's why it's 1st zone. So within this zone, in the first zone, there are at least three ship repair units. Within the development plan of the PPA, which was approved by your government, there is also Kinosura and Greek state commitments by 2052. So you come in 2019 - and you are right - and you make a decision in March 2019 that these activities must be removed, but without making any assessments, without asking for transport costs, which, Mrs Readospoulou, we have already asked for. We have called for the process of approaching the transport costs of existing units within zone I. In the meantime, and while all three ship repair units have to be dealt with collectively and overall, the Ministry of the Environment comes under its own law and proceeds with a licence. In a rule of law, what the state needs to do is what we have done, to address the Legal Council of State, in order to proceed legally, given precisely the institutional framework of this region. I also inform you that never the Prime Minister and I - but, you see, there are so many lies and make news that you lose them - we went together to Salamis and were photographed in Salamis! It's never happened!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u141	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u142	On the contrary, at the moment, the Ministry of Culture completes the studies of the promotion and regeneration of Kinosura from the quarry to the end of the peninsula. The completion of the study to go to the Central Archaeological Council is a matter of time. I would also like to refer you to the issues of the Salaminomarian tumor in the archaeological literature - I would be happy to give it to you - from 1965 to 2018. Because someone referred to the Antikytheras, I can tell you that in the case of the Antikytheras, the competent departments of the Ministry of Culture - because, under Law 3028, competence is a service - they have carried out what the archaeological legislation provides for. Listen, I've said it many times. Our priority is to tackle the chronic problem of archaocapilia. We're dealing with it, and we're fighting it. You have reduced the sentences of the archbishops by voting for the codes! We now go to what has been said about regional policy and the PPC. Principles of 2020, at the initiative of the Ministry, opened the dialogue with both PPC and municipalities, in order to achieve the evolution of their model of operation in the context of a wider regional cultural policy. Unlike the previous government's incomplete bill, which came just before the elections, creating new structures, unsustainable in substance, our approach takes into account the specificities of individual regions and existing cultural structures, highlighting and exploiting them. Since around the cultural and creative industries an entire ecosystem of businesses from third sectors such as tourism, focus, entertainment, retailing, culture has become a key lever of global strategies for attracting professionals from all sectors. Our immediate aim is to implement pilot projects - we will start them in 2021 - cultural development in the region, with the design and coordination of implementation by the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with regional and municipal authorities and local bodies. A key to this is the partnership between cultural heritage, intangible culture and modern creation. Now we're going to copyright. Copyright has been successfully managed because we have settled things according to the European example, allowing creators to regulate matters of copyright and related rights. In this context, we have made two critical decisions. The first concerned the collective management organisation of SEMs. It came out in February 2020, practically demonstrating our support for the creators, but also for the requirement of the law, your own law, that the legislation on licensing conditions be complied with, especially as regards the financial viability of the new organisation. Our second decision, together with the Minister of Finance, concerned the process of transferring the activities of the EEAS to the EMS in order for the latter to function in this respect, with a view to safeguarding the interests of the authors in terms of transparency and reliability. It is clear that the Ministry of Culture has managed to settle in the most interesting way for the creators the outstanding issues that had emerged from your day, Special Extraordinary Management Agency, which were ponding since 2017. I should like to point out here that the EEAS also received 3 million stock from the state fund, money that some promised that the creators would get. Obviously, you did not do that because you know what the consequences of giving money to individuals were. Finally, until the publication of the CSCE for the transfer of the activity to the CSCE, the nomination by the Ministry of Culture of the clearer made two very large distributions of intellectual property rights to the authors, who had remained unpaid since May 2019. We have proceeded and proceeded with legislative initiatives to shield the legal framework for the protection of copyright and related rights, while ensuring and cooperating with the OPI the effectiveness of the supervisory mechanism with full and effective control of any complaint of infringement of the legislation notified to us. At the same time, we proceeded with the setting-up of a working group on a proposal from the ICES to examine a comprehensive support package involving representatives of the relevant ministries of finance and development, under the Secretary-General of Culture, along with representatives of the ICES. We are at the final stage of drawing up the conclusions and we expect to see how we are going to proceed, since we now have the proposals of the Ministry of Development, so that all together will be approved by the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of an integrated civilisation management plan makes your claim of opportune treatment and non-existence of any planning a failure on your part to propose and implement solutions. It is obvious that you are trying to fortify backward false and irresponsible objections in order to degrade the work produced by us, not accepting reality. In this effort you name words against people of culture, working towards small political interests. I didn't mention the names of scientists in here. You did it! You are turning against representatives of the Ministry of Culture, undervalued their work in their positions of responsibility, their participation in the relevant councils, as well as the general path of officials of primary and secondary clubs, imprisoning for the persecutions you ordered against tens of executives, and in the last period before the 2019 National Elections, referring them to disciplinary councils and conducting the SADs. Today I have presented data to you and prove that the job is done. On the contrary, no garden was cleaned up to blossom - you said this on your day - and, of course, not just did the spring of culture come, but you created and continue to create absolute gravitational words. Finally, it is self-evident that you have been unable to accept for the last sixteen months that the Ministry of Culture - and not just - the entire government has been carrying out work at a rapid pace and in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis. You also realise that the strategic response to the problem situations that have remained in store in previous years is totalitarian and scanning, crushing your argument about a lack of strategy and anti-social policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u143	Thank you too, Minister. I call on the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Pano Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, may I speak from my position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u145	If you speak from your position, you should wear the mask. If you don't want to wear the mask, you'll come to Stepma. This is a directive from our health committee. Also, let me tell you something else. I will give you six and three minutes, a total of nine, so that we can also close the sitting with the last position of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President, you have been convinced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u147	So no one protests, because from six minutes to nine Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u148	If they need to!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u149	And ten to need, there will be tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u150	Madam Minister, I would like to begin with a reference to the Thessaloniki metro, because as you rightly understand it is a question of confrontation that goes beyond the limits of this debate, it goes beyond the country's boundaries. The international community is rightly involved in this. But, first of all, because you said with great vigour that the SYRIZA government did nothing about this matter, I will remind you that the years of our own governance in 75% of the whole project were completed, what had not happened before! 97% of the civil engineering projects, 100% of the tunnels, and the station began to expand towards Kalamaria. The contractor himself in February 2020 confirms that he is within the timeframe. So that is a reality that you cannot cover. The citizens of Thessaloniki know this first. And he comes in September 2019 the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki and announces three years later. The contractor is the first to rub his hands. But that's not all. You may want - badly, of course, because the money is not yours - to strengthen a company, the contractor, but here it is about a very specific approach, which has been presented before and by the colleagues of these ancients. You were not at all convincing, and the examples you have brought were misguided, were international examples, because here we say that you are still thinking beyond the complete dismantling of the ancients and where you will expose them. So, imagine this gift to the city, you want to put it aside. In any case, I think it is now well recorded in the consciousness of the citizens of Thessaloniki, of the people who respect the history of what you are going to do. But you asked yourself a few weeks ago what you were doing in S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u151	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u152	In S.T.E. What did you go to do? Did you go to tea? He's in your duties and you're coming here and you're giving up on us that we don't respect? What don't we respect? What did you do? Who did you go to influence? You have a huge responsibility on this issue and you have not answered either now or the last time we talked about it. If I understood correctly, about copyright and our policy, do we ultimately have to be proud as SYRIZA or should we not? It is only there that I have seen you limiting the tons of denouncing and the tons of arrogance. Nevertheless, you have delayed the implementation of what was planned for almost a year, and so there are adverse effects on people of culture, on creators. Or isn't it? And above all, did you not feel the need in your second place to say that in any event, because of the situation, we will do this extra measure to support musicians, artists, actors? Nothing. As if there were no, as if this debate had taken place two months ago, exactly the same! Eventually, where are you headed, what are you doing? Why - anyway - is there such analgesia? We suggested something specific in relation to bookshops. You think about it? Are you thinking of suggesting it? Comment on it! Let six sms become seven, another number. Are we gonna do it all online? Have you thought when it's over - and we wish it will be soon - this situation, what will be left behind, in relation to jobs, with businesses? All of this is in your perspective, are you interested in the field of yours, culture? I'm not talking about the rest of the sectors. So where do you have the authority, any comment? Because the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative raised a number of issues on our attitude to tourism, what we have said since the first day - which you do not understand - is that whatever step is taken or taken should have been taken in a planned, studied and uniform manner. There can be no other entry protocol and other rules apply to carters, others to boats, others to cars, others to different countries. This is what we are paying now and I do not understand how easily you are leveling, how much tourism contributes - that is, the unscheduled way tourism has opened up - to the dissemination of the second wave. Why do you say that? You told us it was a cost. Do you know what reminded me of? What the Government spokesman said, "will we throw our money to health?". What should we do so that we do not lead to the requisition of the two hundred beds before? Why didn't you make the required recruitments? Why? How many people were saying there won't be a second pandemic wave? Everyone said the opposite. And you left one in one of the months, eight, nine months to go back, lost, because you are ideological, obsessive, neoliberal, you have allergy to anything in the public, in the public health system. The conclusion, however, is that you are told by individuals too - that you cannot guarantee the public good of health to everyone, or should not? Or should we not be sure of everyone? Or should this person have access to economic power? Is that what you think? Is that your vision of society? So tell them if this reform through the public-private partnership is ultimately what it is, who pays and is hospitalized. Is that it? So say it to those who have been taxed for so many years, who had their reservations, tell them to the pensioners, to the young people. In this society they will live tomorrow. So when we talk about a requisition, you should know that we are not talking about buying services from the private sector. That's where you messed up because you doubled the hospitals for the intensively unjustified. You have done so unjustly, as unjustly you have not prescribed the tests, when you know that 30% is done in the private sector and they treasure some private structures right now. There are not many countries that have not done that. But you insist. Apparently, you have your bills, your obligations, your perceptions. Why should we pay for this, as citizens? So if we are not talking about a requisition, we are talking about a special regime, special needs, and so the price should not be market-based.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u153	There's a law on these, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u154	What do you mean, there's a law? The one you do double the $800 and you do 1600? Is that what you mean, is there a law?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u155	There's a law. Get up to date for the requisitions!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u156	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand - and I conclude - that in the end the issue of the survival of the people of culture, of the workers and of the unemployed is not a matter of individual responsibility. It is a matter of solidarity, it is a matter of social policy, it is a matter of understanding which should be in the hands of an entire government, which must recognise the difficulties that today passes by hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. If you do not understand all of this, I am very afraid that the cost will be too great for the citizens themselves, but eventually it will be for you too. Let's take the second one. The first, however, cannot be the case for everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too. Because you have asked, Mr Buga, for the floor, you cannot have it, and we must be fair to everyone. Parliamentary control is not a personal matter, but as I understand it, you have asked some questions, Mr Skourletis answered them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u160	It wasn't a personal matter!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u161	Now the Minister has the floor. And it is good, Minister, to come to the Step and not to your position, because from your position you must wear a mask, while from the Step you will be able to speak more freely. I am saying this and clarifying it so that I am fair, I am not in favour of you, although we belong to the same party. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would say that here we are talking about and speaking about the Civic Opposition to the health system, the Ministry of Health and the clinics, because it is of course a matter of topicality. But it allows us to think that they don't have much more to say about culture than we're lying. So you keep lying. And it goes on, because you think you did a huge job in the NRP, because the previous Samaras government, to which I was Secretary-General, had not ensured the maturity of the projects to be completed. So this is a lie and the truth is - and this is evidenced by a number of service documents - that throughout 2015 and throughout 2016 no one has been involved in the coordination of the ESDP projects. You are the only government that has not absorbed all the resources of the NRP and your absorption has been closed at 96.5%, as opposed to previous governments, which have been absorbed from 103% to 105%. You said you were proud of the National Gallery. Of course you are proud of the Gallery, which should have been completed in 2016, go on 2017, and reach 2019 and the construction site is essentially inactive. You lied about trying to find out where we're going to expose the ancients. But we're clear. The ancients will be extracted from Venizelos Station and will return to their position exactly the same level as today and by 92%. So how are we looking? You said about the authorisation of the NCA. We authorised the SAR three days after the submission of the viability study brought us by the SAR. The sustainability study is a prerequisite for your own law. You, in other words, wanted us to outlaw. Hey, we wouldn't do you a favor! We are now on the subject of my visit to the President of the Council of State. I went to the President of the Council of State a week before 6 November when the metro issue was discussed in plenary. First of all, I have to tell you something which I am sure you know is a tradition over eighty years in the Council of State on the basis of which the parties are visiting the judges and setting out their views. Our opponents have repeatedly gone to the President of the Council of State. Therefore, with absolute institutional transparency and honesty, I visited the President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u163	Were you represented? As a party?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u164	The opposition is the Ministry of Culture. The Minister of Culture represents the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u165	What are you talking about? Legal advisors are going! Are you kidding us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u166	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u167	There's no respect!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u168	You haven't interrupted!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u169	As I responded to a previous topical question, there were four themes discussed with the President of the Council of State, starting with the codification of the cultural heritage in which representatives of the Council of State participate, in order to get to the issue of the building of the whole block where there are serious risks, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Anyway, I would remind you that when the Council of State was discussing the suspension for television licences, at the same table was the Secretary-General of your Government, and it had even been given the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in all areas of public policy, obviously in culture, we are representatives of different perceptions and attitudes, we are two worlds that we will not meet anywhere. This has also been demonstrated during your administration, but it is also demonstrated today by the way in which opposition is exercised. While representing a world completely different, I would say the world of populism and stagnation, at the same time you define yourself as preachers of the clearance of all the pathogens of the modern Greek state, as the only socially sensitive, as if you were authorised by society as a whole. You said before about street music. You reminded me of the brown in Thessaloniki where you fined SYRIZA. I represent - and we represent as a government - as a political perception of the world of creation, of modernity and of public policies on the basis of collective anxiety about the modernisation and relaunch of the cultural sector. When I spoke in my programme statements about rebranding and capitalisation of cultural heritage, you were disturbed. Today, especially in this health crisis, I feel that this must be the lasting political challenge in the coming years to create prospects for all of us and also for the workers of culture. Culture, ladies and gentlemen, is not exhausted in taking short-term economic measures, which are of course necessary, and that is why we have taken them, and we have created mechanisms from zero. It is not a pitfall of ideas and opinions from different perspectives, nor is it a demonstration of sensitivity. Public policies on culture must be multi-level, must have an identity, be targeted, documented and constantly creating the best prospects for cultural professionals. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is moving forward. Her society is moving forward, despite difficulties. And in this health crisis, the government, and of course the Ministry of Culture, plans and implements public policies on a daily basis aimed at this regeneration. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, refuse to follow society and to monitor the implementation of our policies. You remain trapped in the small world of your introvert policy and an unstable populism, but it gives you a short-term rise. The short-term is none of our business! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u170	Thank you too, Minister. The debate on number 2/2/12-10-2020 on a topical and urgent question is closed: 'No strategy and anti-social policy in the field of culture'. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-20-S1-commons.u171	With the consent of this House at 14.17 hours, the sitting on Monday, November 23, 2020, at 15.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
