ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the timely questions to be debated today. The document is filed in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed with number 88/26-10-2020 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No care for the staff of the General Hospital of Corfu". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Let me remind all colleagues - and ministers and MPs - that, following a decision by the Conference of Presidents, time will be strictly respected because of the coronary so as to avoid crowding in the rooms beyond the limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr Aylonite, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. My question is very topical. Incidentally, it fell on the astonishing - I would say - a worrying outbreak of the pandemic and it tied me to say this word - and with a statement I heard and impressed me by Mr Gerapetiti, who blamed the lockdown decided today in Thessaloniki, in Serres, on the Thessalonians. This - I do not hide it - is commenting negatively more widely, because the Greek people in the period March - April showed great prudence, then he was a hero. It is now up to the government to take responsibility for the omissions it has done. But don't blame my question. Minister, I asked you this timely question why the problems at Corfu Hospital are many, they have accumulated even more in recent times, but at the same time, there is also a very serious tension within the hospital that has dismantled working peace. The great responsibility I attach to the commander of the hospital, who, by his superstitious conduct, is punishable by the non-legislative staff - and, above all, scientific - creates a number of problems. I would ask you very much, even if you don't believe me, to take a look at exactly what is going on at Corfu Hospital. In my timely question, I identify that Corfu Hospital is subordinated. It is facing a serious problem in relation to a number of clinics and those who have been recruited lately - six, seven - in fact they have been redundant. The administration, and neither was the Ministry, in my opinion - or rather did not show diligence at the Hospital of Corfu, which is the largest of the Ionian Islands - both as regards the recruitment of seventy doctors who were recruiting the islands and four hundred recently, to provide a place for the Corfu Hospital. In this sense, therefore, since I have finished and will obey the mandate of the President, I would ask you to tell me exactly what you are thinking about the hospital staff and take into account the fact that the ITHs were filled both at the University Hospital of Rios and at the Hospital of Ioannina and yesterday the hospital commander at a television interview said that we are waiting for patients from the Greek Hospital who I mentioned just now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you too, Mr. Alonite. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Aylonite, 2020 is a difficult year. The coronary pandemic has tested and tested the resistance of health systems worldwide. Greece has successfully faced the first phase of the pandemic and we continue successfully to deal with the situation, recognising the difficulties that exist and having the potential to strengthen the National Health System, both in health care and in measures of personal protection and economic resources, in order to cope with the difficulties. That is why we are taking new measures every time, and that is why we are going to take all the necessary steps to reorientate the forces in the National Health System, such as more diagnostic tests on more sites and with more machinery and with fullness as regards reagents, the development and disposal of more simple coronary beds, the development and disposal of more beds only for coronary in intensive treatment units. Of course the health system, like all systems in the world, has no inexhaustible powers. However, we are sure that the measures that have been taken will be able to cope with it. In this difficult environment, at the same time, we are also called upon to meet the requirements of the daily lives of citizens for adequate health services and, more generally, the National Health System in terms of its smooth operation and the provision of services to every citizen. Let me say that nothing has prevented the pandemic, so that this year we can implement a series of permanent staff notices to the National Health System. There is a call for a thousand other staff of nineteen different branches and categories, three notices of medical staff, nine hundred three posts at the end of February, eighty-one posts last July, as you say in your question, and four hundred posts in September. Overall, we have announced a thousand four hundred twenty-one permanent staff, doctors of various specialties for hospitals and health centres throughout the country. Especially for the Corfu Hospital, we have announced eleven posts of doctors, curator two of various specialties and nine posts of other staff, always according to the demands of the hospital, as promoted to the Ministry by the relevant health region. By the end of the year, Corfu Hospital will incorporate these eleven permanent doctors, whose crisis is at the final stage of implementation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, with the announcements of permanent posts, we have acted quickly, covering shortcomings and gaps with the recruitment of ancillary staff. Seven subsidiary doctors in surgery, orthopaedic, obstetric, cellology, pneumonology and paediatrics are currently serving in the hospital and even sixty more persons of other auxiliary personnel. I inform you that this subsidiary staff, which you, at the point of your question, are called 'trained', supported and supported the operational needs of the Corfu Hospital. Under no circumstances is it a student who comes to attend courses, but is a health professional who ensures with his presence the smooth and uninterrupted provision of health services to our fellow citizens. That is the main reason why we are urged to integrate this staff into permanent jobs in the National Health System. Finally, I want to assure you that there is no problem with the Hospital's Artificial Nebula Unit. Deficiencies in permanent medical staff shall be covered for the time with ancillary staff pending permanent appointments, because there is a nephrologist in the notice, and staff shall be moved from other health structures. In any case, in cooperation with the hospital administration and the 6th Health Region, we monitor and intervene where necessary to provide solutions, ensuring the proper functioning of the hospital. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u6	Here, Mr Aylonite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Undersecretary, you are very kind to your position. But I'm going to tell you that you're making a lot of the whole situation in the National Health System. In fact, it turns out that you are making it from the last promise that by December, eleven doctors will be hired at Corfu Hospital. You realize that we are minus five thousand doctors and nursing staff compared to July 2019. In any case, that is the claim from my party. You, however, insist that your entire work in connection with the strengthening of the National Health System and in relation to the treatment of pandemic has been very successful. Is that the reality, Mr. Undersecretary? Ask the world out! For you to see the developments that I have just made, at the beginning of my first speech, I mentioned to you today. You declared today Lockdown in Thessaloniki and Serres. And what about tomorrow? What's going to happen tomorrow? The health system has filled the first days of the pandemic up in the area of Patras and Ioannina and, as I said before - I'm sorry to repeat it - in a few days we accept patients in order to incorporate them into the minimum ICUs of Corfu Hospital. And you're telling me that in December you will hire eleven doctors for Corfu Hospital? If that's possible! I cannot object to that. Mr Secretary, I told you before to check the issues relating to working peace in the hospital and, indeed, in the midst of a pandemic. Check, watch and see if what I'm saying is unfounded in relation to the administration, with the hospital commander. There's a great deal of tension in the middle of a pandemic. I've said it twice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Undersecretary, the other point I would like to make is this: a few days ago you accepted an amendment from the Members of the other Ionian Islands and incorporated this amendment into Law 4737/2020 for the unfavourable regions. You joined zone I. You know very well that of these eleven you expect you to take - because there are examples of the past - they will not come to stay there and if they are hired, they will not stay longer than a few days or a few months. There must be incentives. I would therefore ask that an amendment to another bill possibly include Corfu in Zone I, so that the recruitment process can be initiated and that the doctors we always want to hire at Corfu Hospital are encouraged. Mr. Undersecretary, please very much follow the development of the operation of Corfu Hospital. He has serious shortcomings. I will submit to the Secretariat of the House a number of communications from the workers' association, the doctors' association, all the involved in the operation of the hospital, which is clearly demonstrated that the argument I have developed to you is entirely valid. So let us not stay at the level of the opposition. A Member of Parliament speaks to you of an island who tries to make such a profit and, in fact, in such circumstances, to serve the people of Corfu and the Diapondent Islands, which are suffering. I will tell you features, in order to think about it, that this is the third question I ask to your Ministry, in relation to the staffing of doctors from the intercontinental islands. See all of this, and I would ask you very much to understand the seriousness of the matter and to take a look at the Corfu Hospital. Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Aylonite, I do not think anyone will argue that we all want each hospital, including Corfu to which you refer, to serve the world, to have a working peace, as you mentioned, and to provide the health services as it should provide to every citizen. Thank you for the point. We are looking at it, and certainly we are looking at it. It is not only the provision of services in itself, but also the safeguarding of an environment of work, where the working conditions will be the best possible. As you referred to the amendment tabled by the Members of the Ionian Islands concerning the barren and problematic islands, I would remind you that these regions have recently been affected by bad weather and, yes, it is an incentive for doctors to go to these regions. We are re-examined all the regions in Greece in order to see what really needs to be characterised as barren and problematic and to remind once again - you are giving me the opportunity - that we have drawn up a plan, which has been completed and will be ready to present in a short time, providing a package of measures, a package of incentives so that the medical staff can cover the positions in fertile, problematic and remote areas with specific incentives, which have an incentive to do both with the scientific development of these doctors, and with the economic benefits they have and, of course, with the help of the state providing health professionals, because it is clear - and this has also been the result of the research we have done in preparing for this study - that the doctor, who is in a remote area, wants to feel that he has a alongside him, has the opportunity to ask for help or exchange scientific views with some of his fellows in order to deal with a situation. I believe and wish - because all the governments in the past years have tried to resolve this problem - that all the heads of the National Representation will agree on the proposal we are going to make. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. We will continue with the third under number 83/26-10-2020 in the first cycle, the Member of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The permanent enhancement of the income of the low-pensioners". The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my question concerns low-pension workers, that is to say more than a million Greeks and their families. We are analyzing this and say, firstly, that the New Democracy promised to maintain the thirteenth pension which, for purely electoral reasons, the SYRIZA - ANEL government had established. But the New Democracy has abolished it. Secondly, the pension thresholds and the ESS, which PASOK has introduced and maintained, despite the financial derailment of the period 2004-2009, were abolished by SYRIZA. However, the New Democracy has insisted and maintained their abolition. Thirdly, the New Democracy, despite the decisions of the Council of State, through its own interpretations - as a government now - deprives one and a half million low pensioners of their retroactive cuts in the 2015-2016 gift and subsidiary cuts. Already the pensioners' associations - you know, Minister - have appealed to the courts against the 2020 Joint Ministerial Decision F.11321/35005. Fourth question, despite the explicit wording of Article 27 of Law No 4670/2020 on the employment of pensioners, according to which the pension is paid reduced for as long as the pensioner is employed or maintained in ECAA insurance, the new circular directives unfortunately abolish this explicit wording of the law on the proportional reduction of pension on the basis of the pensioner's employment days per month. Minister, you know that low pensioners exceed one million and receive a monthly pension of up to 500 euros. The average is EUR 250. You cannot question and do not accept that there is a need to ensure a decent standard of living for all the citizens of the country and that is the obligation of the state. Of course, the government's policy must in any case have such a rationale. We ask you to: Do you intend to take some measures for the effective and permanent solution of the low pensioners in the country and if you add, Minister, what are these measures? Secondly, I must say that you have admitted that most of the proposals of the Change Movement have been adopted by the Government and that is in everyone's interest and in the interests of the citizens. It is your honour that you have accepted this. So, after that, do you intend to accept the well-known proposal put forward by the Change Movement to establish the permanent minimum guaranteed monthly income for pensioners and the activation of the new CSR, i.e. the difference between the pension paid and the minimum monthly income for pensioners, so that it is not missing and missing? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis will allow me to begin by announcing to this House the ministerial decision that is very important and which I wrote just before on teleworking, which will be implemented from tomorrow morning throughout the country. I want to make it known through the House, because it is very critical and it concerns 50% of the workers who can exercise it in all Greek businesses: ‘Extension of application of emergency and temporary measures to organise the place and working time for the month of November throughout the territory. For imperative reasons of public health protection against COVID -19, the following rules are laid down as regards the organization of the place and working time. Businesses - employers based or having branches in any regional unit in the country are required for the month of November to implement the system of remote work for their employees where their work can be provided by this system to 50% of the total number of employees. In order to ensure correct compliance with Case I, employers must, within 24 hours of the publication of the present in the Official Journal of the Government, forward to the Information System of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs the lengthy work of 50% of their employees, for which this measure can be applied before the start of their work, by supplementing Form 4.1 ‘Declaration of Distance of Work — a special purpose form referred to in Article 4(2) of the Act of Accession’. In any event, a fine of EUR 3,000 is imposed on the firm - an employer, after an audit by the Labour Inspectorate at the Ministry of Labour. The working hours of employees in enterprises - private sector employers who are established or have branches in any regional unit in the country must be adjusted for the month of November at the beginning and end of the year so that every half hour and within two hours the workers can come and leave in connection with the beginning and end of their working hours. For the period of application of this provision, the employer's obligation to register in the ERGAN information system of the Ministry of Labour any change in the working time or organization of working hours shall be suspended. In any case, the provisions of Presidential Decree 88/1999, as well as the obligation of the employer to pre-notify the time of overworking and legal overtime before being carried out in the information system of the Ministry of Labour, continue to apply. The abovementioned adjustment of the working hours shall not alter the type of contract of such workers.' This is the ministerial decision I signed just before, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, I am sorry, I will respond to my denture, but it is very important because the events are running very fast and this must be implemented tomorrow morning and all the businesses must implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you can now speak in your philosophy before I go into the denology to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u15	He'll probably respond to the dentistry. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u16	I just said it because it was an important matter the Minister announces. Minister, I would like to say that - on the occasion of our question - you have indeed made an important announcement about the ministerial decision. In relation to the question - which is very specific - I would like to say that I wish to see it today. - to say that the low pensioners and pensioners will no longer be registered in the "HLIOS" system, which since 2018 has been stopped over SYRIZA and so far there is no other post. I say this on the basis of the information we see from the 'ELIOS'. By 2018 we see some posts. Since then there has been no specific announcement. It would now be good if there were what SYRIZA stopped. Minister, the question we have tabled is very specific: What are we going to do? What are you gonna do? Do you have a proposal for low pensioners? It's over a million. In 2018 - and I will put it out in the Minutes - there were reports of about a million two hundred thousand people. This refers to the ELIOS system, according to the relevant document, and it is undeniable. It's a bit higher, it's a little lower, we can't determine it. We figure that's it. It is a great deal compared to the Greek population, the low pensioners. The pension is under 500 euros and, unfortunately, given the time we are all experiencing, you understand and realise that this is a very difficult situation for these people. That is the question, Minister, to which we insist and say: must they or should they not be strengthened? Because the previous government did, though, bring the thirteenth left-wing pension for purely election reasons, but you abolished it, while you said that a different solution would eventually be found. You also maintained the abolition of the ESS, which was also abolished by SYRIZA. You have overrun the retroactive, cutbacks and what we said before after the decisions of the Council of State. You deprived them and you know what's going on? All these people are running in the courts now. It's a matter of that. In other words, with this policy that has been pursued and which has been adopted, you know that the low-pensions are running in the courts. Why should such behaviour be in these people, given that they are in a very difficult and difficult situation? And in any case, why should it not be observed, as mentioned in the well-advertised Law4670 and Article 27, but the circulars abolish the explicit wording of the law? I am referring to the Circulars on proportional pension cuts on the basis of the pensioner's days of employment per month. These are data, which unfortunately still exist today and create negative situations. This is a question that is raised daily by the micro-retired people, namely how they will move and how they will be able to live. So the two questions are clear and we would like you, Mr Minister, to answer them. The first is this: Do you intend to support the low-pension workers? And what measures will you take for a substantial and lasting solution? Not to do it for a short time, but there is a permanent and lasting aid to relieve these people. And the second: the costly and fully justified proposal put forward by the Change Movement, as it has tabled so many others - and I repeat, have you adopted many of you, because you have recognised it in this Chamber -, do you intend to recognise and adopt some piece or something in relation to the low pensioners for the CSR, as you mentioned? These are the two questions for which, please, Minister, now in your dentext to give a clear answer. They are more than a million people, our fellow citizens, who are waiting for these important issues. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Come on, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u18	I would like a little more time, however, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, thank you for the large and polite way you put yourself on a critical issue, as over time in this Chamber we have faced, and it is called the country's insurance system. With your right-wing Mr. Kegeroglou, excellent colleague and colleague, I have been honoured to join the Ministry of Labour in 2012-2014. He knows very well, like all Greek society, workers and current pensioners, that one of the main causes of the country's budget derailment - I have said so many times, it is not new - was the insurance. Why was the insurance one of the main causes of the country's financial derailment? Because for decades it had become the country's insurance system as a clientele political tool used by all governments. However, the opposition parties also advocated this in an arbitrary way, in a way that is non-transparent for the acquisition of consciences and votes. What's insurance, Mr. Mulkiotis? On two lines, it's the return that the insurance contributions you pay for all your working life. Is that the country's insurance system? Oh, no. The Greek state also gives a brave part of the state budget to strengthen pensions. That's the insurance. What was Greece's insurance until first? It was a mosaic full of exceptions and special regimes, a fragmented system of special regimes and exceptions. You're gonna let me out of here. Dozens of funds broken down, systems, boards without rules, arbitrary, from subsidiary to main pensions. I have to say, Mr Mulkiotis, that the insurance reform you mentioned, n.4670, comes and covers all the legislative environment from 2010, from n.3863 that I served, to all the laws. Greece now has a secure insurance system, measured by a proportionate study, measured with the stamp of the Economic University of Greece for the adequacy of pensions, which has viability according to - for the first time! - a proportional study accompanied by insurance until 1970. I'll repeat it. In politics, we all have our political circle, the biological one. Anyone who is disturbing today's insurance will put their next generations of pensioners and pensions at risk, because very simply, Mr Mulkiotis, we have an insurance that is being tested through the pandemic today - because insurance contributions are not coming - and the state is coming and it covers the gap and deficit of insurance contributions created in 2020. Gentlemen, what is the ratio of insurance contributions and State grant? I'll tell you about it, based on the elements of the "ELIOS", which you invoke. Expenditure on pensions annually is EUR 28 billion. Of the EUR 28 billion, contributions are only 12 billion. The 14 billion is being put on by the Greek taxpayer. And what do you think today? You will allow me, Mr Mulkiotis, to say that what you say is not the best proposal, and you cannot - let me - be politically sympathetic to the proposals you are making. You become politically sympathetic when you make a realistic and responsible proposal and come to document it. What do you think? I have read KINAL's proposal and you are right to speak, we hear as a government and we can adopt - we have adopted your proposals at times. What are you telling us? Listen to the numbers. You first say that the third pension is EUR 2.3 billion on an annual basis. You're telling us to give the ESS. It is EUR 1.2 billion on an annual basis. And you're telling me to raise the basic pension of EUR 384 to 500. It is a EUR 116 million difference, over two and a half million pensioners, for thirteen months, which you say makes us a total of about EUR 3.7 billion a year. In other words, Mr Mulkiotis - without criticising his good intention - says at the moment the Greek state, the Greek taxpayer, should pay out of his pocket for pensions annually EUR 7.2 billion. This is not going to happen, Mr Mulkiotis. Your position is a thirteenth pension, CSR and five hundred basic pensions and so much it costs. In addition, you forsake...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u19	Finish, Minister. We said to keep the time to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u20	I shall conclude, Mr President. With regard to retrospectives, Mr President: the procedure has been completed without mistakes. I'll repeat it, because some people who offend the operation of the system have taken unscrupulous and false news. Retrospectives were given to a million and fifty thousand pensioners without mistakes, so there were no protests, except for some targeted and subtle publications. The two classes of retired people with a reference year 2015 and 2016 will take them in November, because this is how it had to be done. And the heirs of the pensions of deviated pensioners will take them with the online platform we are going to do now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u21	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u22	The second comment is on HLIOS. Mr Mulkiotis, let me inform you - and Mr Kegerolgos knows - that was the time together at the Ministry - on June 1, 2013 we made the big reform - mapping the insurance. Since then, the evidence has been coming out. The Greeks learned the mapping of insurance, which they did not know until then, we did not know how many pensions we were paying to, to whom are the pensioners and to the "mony" pensions that "LIOS" won. This version of "ELIOS" was interrupted by SYRIZA and has been reissued and comes out on a monthly basis. They come out monthly, publish "ELIOS", published by e-Elfka and the Ministry of Labour, is at your disposal, give me your e-mail personally "ELIOS" every month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Listen to me, please, I want to tell you something. We said at the Conference of Presidents that we should keep the time to remain as short as possible in the Chamber because of the coronary. If, therefore, time is broken and other colleagues will delay leaving for the topical questions that are being asked and the objective we have set at the Conference of Presidents will not be achieved. We continue with the fifth under No 95/26-10-2020 topical question of the second question of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The number of outstanding pensions is constantly increasing and direct payment of the temporary pension to everyone". Mr. Kegerolwa, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I have to say that in Mr Mulkiotis' large style, the Minister chose to respond with a sufficient dose of 'grass' propaganda. I don't know if he claims Mr. Pecha's position, but that's their thing. We are obliged to recall what he said about the crisis experienced by the country in 2009 that economic derailment 2004-2009 was the main cause and this economic derailment concerned all areas, particularly theft of the drug. If the insurance was involved in this crisis, neither the first, nor the second, nor the third, nor even the tenth series. And why? In Greece, we have tripartite funding: workers, employers, state, as far as the main pension is concerned. In this context, there was the latest reform with L.3861 and L.3863 in 2010, which had been implemented, based on the studies carried out at the time, there would be no problem of new interventions in the next period. Unfortunately it has not been implemented since 2015, and that is the main reason we are discussing again today. It was abolished by the Deputy Minister of ANELs, Mr Haikalis, the lower pension of IKA, which was EUR 486, so that we have degrading pensions for a large number of people. They are, therefore, things that we are proposing in an institutional way to deal with. All you said, we have incorporated them into the new proposal, into the new CSCE. And the new CSR in no way exceeds one billion in total budget costs. You put it separately, summed up, made a 7.5 billion of yours. We leave it to you, we certainly don't speak the same language, we're talking about another thing. He has merged, from what you have heard, his proposal with the need to have a lower wall. Let us now assume that everything you have said is true. The outstanding pensions why are they increasing not only in your term of office, but also in the previous government? We had a hundred and five thousand outstanding main pensions in January 2019, they became a hundred twenty-five thousand in June 2019, they became a hundred sixty thousand in March 2020, and today they are estimated at about seventy-five thousand. Are these seventy-five thousand pensions together with ten thousand ASs a matter of money or of the management capacity of the pension system? Obviously, it is not a question of money, and that is why we say that it is the most serious social problem, that the other pensioner should not be retired, given that he only receives about 20% of his pension. The other day, the problem came out of the House's Budget Office - I don't know who was right from both of them, but it came out - that ECA and the Budget Office did not have the necessary communication to announce the exact number of pensions for this quarter. On account of all this, what we are asking is: Do you intend to implement an effective plan - and what is that - for outstanding pensions? We don't say the word from now on, which you're going to tell us again, the electronics, the ones, the other. This is for from now on. For the up to now pending pensions what you will do and what is your design to issue these pensions. And the second question is whether by simple procedure, without the person in question being applied for, until we give him as a state what is his own, that is to say, the pension, we give him the temporary pension. He doesn't have to apply or delay. The following month normally, after his application, his account must be credited with the temporary pension. I don't know why he has to make a minister to live? Five to six years are enough for outstanding pensions, if they are successive and have particular problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why we want to reach agreement. We don't want to make one reason, and in another he won't meet anywhere. That's what we want to come up with. Are you willing to agree? To suggest some ideas and suggestions, to find a solution. So what's going on is benefiting society? For the last sixteen months, you have been telling us that you have had the solution and that the outstanding pensions have risen sharply. I don't know if the others had hidden them, told them and told the others that they had been hidden.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u25	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u26	The pensioners, however, are not to blame for this, nor for our confrontation, nor for the fact that SYRIZA hid the pensions if he hid them, or because we do not have the ability to issue them today. We will respond to them, to the pensioners who do not receive a pension, who do not have a living, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u27	I would like to repeat, Mr Kegeroglu, and to all of this: when time is thus violated - about three times the time, Mr Kegeroglu - and if the Minister violates him, it is a sin for other colleagues. Let's keep him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u28	Why is he breaking up? You made an interim announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u29	Please, in your dentistry, be concise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u30	The show...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u31	That's not how it works. It is the Rules of Procedure that are the other Members. It can't be done. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I will keep from Mr Kegeroglu's position that at the end of the day he is not interested in the retired person or the potential retired person in what has happened in the past. It requires - what I have often said in this Chamber - the self-evident, that is, the pension. I served the Ministry of Labour in 2012-2014 and now a whole year, a difficult ministry, a very sensitive portfolio, because it manages social issues. The first question, rhetoric, which I would put is: Is there anyone who really does not show the sensitivity to press the button and give the outstanding pensions? The answer is no one. So, since it is not bad for the Minister, neither the previous one, nor Giorgos Karugalos, nor Ahchioglou, nor the Skourletus, nor the Lovertus, nor the Koutromanis - no one was bad, everyone wanted to do so - why have there always been outstanding pensions, as we call them? Because there was a weakness in their award mechanism. Was it easy to solve? Answer, no. Never, Mr. Kegeroglou, and you know it, in this room four and a half years of Customization, having the portfolio from Kyriakos Mitsotakis of the Department of Social Security and Labour, I didn't blame SYRIZA for not giving the outstanding pensions. I blamed him for two issues. First of all, because he was lying in public that he gave them away and hid them. And the second reason was because he stopped what I handed over to him in 2014 with Hallaris, i.e. the "ATLAS" system, the digital transformation of the e-ECA, the national body as we now did with the insurance reform. I would therefore like to make it clear at first that if e-ECA along with the Ministry of Labour did not make the big reform of the 'ATLAS' system on 17 April 2020, outstanding pensions could never be solved. Only the electronic system can solve the problem. Secondly, in 2021, as widow’s pensions and farmers’ pensions are already coming out in a second, an exact timetable has been set. That is, March 2021 pensions for disabled and doctors. September 2021 civil servants and private sector and engineers. December 2021 lawyers, journalists, self-employed. What does that mean, Mr President? Those who listen to us, if they submit this date, they will automatically take it. So, as Mr Kegeroglu quite rightly says, pensions are now under way to automatically come new ones. And he puts the question right now pressingly what we do about the past. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I need some time, the equal to Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr President, I will tell you that we have not been inherited - I will answer you, Mr Kegeroglu, for the project - only pending pensions. I would like to open up one parentheses: I have said that I do not wish to refer to such questions in the past, but I am obliged to ask them. There were seventeen thousand pensions in bags spent in the electronic register to show up, ladies and gentlemen, and the electronic pension record had also been altered. They were hiding thousands of pensions and we didn't have the clear picture. That's the first. Secondly, that's not all we inherited. We've been inherited in terms of deadlines. Allow me to say: EUR 224 million overdue health obligations. We inherited forty-five thousand loose ends in funeral expenses from January 1, 2015, which stopped for some unexplained reason. And we inherited the one-off obligation. That's the picture we've received. Since when does it start to count, Mr Kegeroglu, - I'm sorry, can you say what you want - the time to start the criticism? Time is in two places. The first is September 2019, undertaken by the new administration of e-ECA, and the 1 March 2020, which started to implement the new insurance law. Are there solutions to these? Yes, and I answer because it's critical. I'll make it with press releases, because people need to know. These are positive developments. Therefore, I answer that, first, the late health costs in 2017 were 223.081.155. In two years until 24-7-2019, SYRIZA had only paid 11 million late. We received it at 212.071.763. We have had a titular struggle, ladies and gentlemen, with the help of the officials - these are not done automatically without the officials. Today, on 30-9-2020, with the help of the officials, the excellent deputy commander, Mr. Cretan, at 20,062 000. Here's the effectiveness. Reduction of the deadlines from 212 million to 20 million. Secondly, with regard to one-offs. The single ones were taken over at 116,545.146 euros. We received them on 1-9-2019, undertaken by the new administration of e-ECA. Today they are down to 58,747.610 million, 1-9-2020 million, thanks to the excellent work of Vice-President Achave. They have decreased over 50%. And thirdly, for outstanding basic pensions, i.e. overdue pensions, I shall say in my second language. The funeral expenses, Mr. Kegeroglu, who tortured the world, forty-five thousand, I inform you that it was all paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u33	You've both exhausted your dentistry. Please be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u34	And we haven't exhausted the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u35	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, say a word. The Single Network of Pensioners highlighted the problem with requests for funeral expenses in the bags. The Single Network of Pensioners! Even the FBI didn't know about it. We asked you a question, and indeed the solution was launched in a simple way. And it could have happened, of course, last summer, if it had been considered - I believe - by the Ministry. But the showcase was made by the Single Network of Pensioners. You remember that - I think - and you're not questioning it. Today, however, you had to tell us about outstanding pensions, at least as information. You should have told us how many of the main outstanding pensions are, how many subsidiary pensions you want to complete in the briefing. You didn't do it, even though you're committed as Ministry that on 30 or 31 October you'd announce it. We have 2 November. You haven't announced them. Of course, the most important thing is to see how these problems are handled. I would say that I did not get satisfactory answers on how these two hundred, three hundred, four hundred thousand loose ends will be zeroed. The pensioner who has been waiting for five years and who does not receive a temporary pension does not receive an answer today. The pensioner who has been waiting for his pension for two years and does not receive a temporary pension, has not even received a reply today. You can find simple way to return the temporary pension. The first assessment by a pension specialist shows whether there is or is not the right to temporary and may in one month take. This is one of the points you need to see, a decision you need to make. The second is to see these outstanding pensions how they will proceed with an individual charge and individual reward for employees. Why did it happen? We had voted here - and I think all the parties had supported it - a regulation that SYRIZA had brought to the committees involved in issuing pensions to give a bonus. And we agreed. But it wasn't targeted and personalized, but the whole team. So in the first time some of the group worked longer, they went out of pensions, and indeed, they fell, but then they all got the same, and this led to lowering the rate of pensioning. Therefore, while there was at the beginning a result, from January 2019 to June 2019, increased by about twenty thousand of the outstanding. The system, as it is now, can make about 12 thousand pensions a month. If the applications are thirteen, fourteen or fifteen thousand, you understand that the problem will continue, even though the new pensions will be introduced into the new electronic system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u38	So, in my view, you should make some decisions. They'll have a very, very small cost in relation to performance. That's what we demand, but not why he smoked us. It is a strong social problem that needs to be addressed. It's about thousands of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor for his denology. And be brief, Minister, in view of the fact that you both have covered your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I listened carefully to what Mr Kegeroglu said. In his denology he was really very specific and he tried with his own arguments, which do not represent the reality, to say that we are being prevented or inactive in the face of the problem of outstanding pensions or overdue pensions. At the same time, he tried to say indirectly but clearly about an element of opacity in relation to the elements which are not delivered to the Commission, the Budget of the House, Mr Koudadakis, as an element that is inappropriate or indifference of the system to be given to the House. I shall therefore reply specifically to these specific questions, Mr Kegeroglu, because I take your question as interesting and positive, because it gives us the opportunity to say a lot. So since I have described the time-limits that we have received in the other three areas, and we are dealing with them - and some of them have been dealt with definitively - there is only one last level: to deal with overdue pensions, especially the main pensions. I said in my prototype, I have said it many times, and it has been understood, that this is now decreasing and will be definitively reduced as new pensions come out digitalally. Is that enough? No, I'm not convinced either. That is why there is a concentrated, integrated plan for dealing with overdue basic pensions, which I will present very soon, in this month, Mr Kegeroglu, to see the steps we have taken and how we will defeat the outstanding basic pensions. I'm specific. Secondly, you said about a sum of about 12 thousand coming out a month. So I inform you that we have broken every previous pension dam thanks to the excellent officials of the Ministry, the e-ECA, and to the excellent Mr. Hallaris, the commander. For September nineteen thousand sixty-two pension awards came out, and the figures show that for October the yield will be the same high. But you are overlooking something that is wrong and unfair to us all. We had three months lockdown. Three months, Mr Kegeroglu, the services of the eFCA were not working. That's what you have to say. The plan, which I will present by the end of November, which will show the downward course and the way in which today's main pensions are due, will be on the assumption that there will be no lockdown. Because, if there is a lockdown, it is a process that cannot be predicted or treated. Third element. It's the last time I'm coming to the House and I'm going to announce how many outstanding pensions are outstanding. I say that this is the last time, Mr President, for this simple reason, because we have prepared something missing from the arsenal of transparency in our Ministry of Labour, Parliament and democracy. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. These are the late primary pensions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So why did I say that this is the last time, Mr President? I would like your tolerance, because it is also an important communication. With Mr. Kegeroglu at the Ministry on June 1, 2013, we took off "ELIO". We mapped 90% of the insurance, everything. Absolute transparency, every month each Greek citizen can see everything about insurance, with the exception of one thing, which was an element of questioning, political dissent and conflict in here: what are the outstanding pensions? This, Mr President, is an extremely time-consuming question that SYRIZA has raised. I am therefore pleased to tell you that with the commander of e-ECA for two months we have completed an electronic platform system...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u42	Excuse me for a moment, Mr President. We completed a system of electronic platform, called "ATLAS" because of the digital pension, and that is what will go into the law of the Ministry of Labour, in the small law that comes to the House now. This will come out on a monthly basis for the first time and at continuous intervals, regularly every month, and will show the outstanding pensions of all the e-ECA funds, so that there is no longer any question whatsoever or a question 'how many is?' So the issue of transparency and the last island that existed is being closed definitively. The monthly report of overdue pensions will see the light of publicity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u43	Only for the due date. Good, but you didn't tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u44	Instead of for eleven minutes total time you both had, you've finally spoken twenty one and half minutes. I'm telling you this about history. The eighth question will then be discussed under number 91/26-10-2020 in the second cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Working seasonally in the operations of sorting, cooling, standardisation, canning of fruits and vegetables in the Regional Units of Imathia and Pella". This timely question will also be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to present this as confusingly as possible for the time as possible. The question's headline says exactly which workers we are talking about, who are working from one to four months a year in this type of business and do not meet the conditions laid down by the OAED, in order to join the unemployment fund, that is, a hundred and twenty-five days after the last two working months. Many of them do not complete the 50 days required for the endorsement of the health booklet. Even if workers have completed one hundred and twenty-five days, due to the conditions and conditions laid down by the OAED for up to four hundred days of grant in the last four years they have been part of the unemployment fund or not. If someone gets sick, they must have a hundred and twenty days last year, so it's the vast majority out. At the same time, the law and the circular of the IKA, which gives the employer the right to employ part of the staff - poor farmers, in particular, rural women - who are working seasonally to supplement their poor income with OGA insurance, which does not recognise accidents at work and doctor's licenses. By circular OAED describes firms as ‘seasonal or non-seasonal’, i.e., though most of their employees are employed seasonally for two to four months per year. It should be noted here that the number of companies has increased, with the result that three thousand canning workers who a few years ago had the right to join the unemployment fund with a hundred wages without deducting the last two months, in recent years, needing a hundred and twenty-five wages. So most of them are out. Given that they work seasonally and do on average fifty to eighty days a year, they will never create conditions for retirement. Even old workers in the sector who have completed the required wages for a pension with four and a half thousand equivalents cannot go out at a reduced pension at sixty-two years, because a total of five hundred wages are required in the last five years of which 100 wages per year. In view of the above, Mr Minister, you ask: What action will the Government take to enable them to join the unemployment fund without conditions, that is to say, to abolish Article 53 and IKA's circular, which actually legalise uninsured work, Article 39 which makes the four hundred days of grant conditionality in the last four years and to change the circular that characterizes business seasonal or non-seasonal? Secondly, what action will you take to ensure that those who carry out a five- to forty-five-year-old visa are given a visa for the health book with no conditions and conditions, abolish the law which imposes five hundred marks in the last five years before retirement and guarantee the pension with two thousand seasonal marks and their incorporation into heavy and unhealthy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u47	Mr Stoltides, Mr Colleague, I understand and share your concern for the workers more widely. It is an anguish that penetrates all of us. No one's more sensitive than the other. Before I answer your question, I would like to make a reminder to you that, since 2013, we have forged something that did not exist in our country: the full coverage of all Greeks, and medical care, but, above all, their coverage with the protection net called 'Minimum Guaranteed Income', which has also been constitutionally consolidated in the recent Review of the Constitution under the guiding proposals primarily of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. So today we are talking about a country that has evolved in terms of social protection. The Minimum Guaranteed Income is the most important and safest protection net for all Greeks. I would like to remind you that with our insurance reform 4670/2020 we have redesigned the country's insurance system by making use of all the positive that has been adopted so far since 2010. With the reforms introduced, we have built a new digital, efficient insurance system, which provides the prospect required by modern Greek society in the digital age, it aligns with the constitutional authorities, restores justice, strengthens the rewarding nature of the system and cancels the disproportionate financial burden imposed on an important productive and creative part of the Greek economy. I now come to the core of your question. The regular grant of unemployment, the conditions of grant, the duration of grant and other relevant issues such as the unemployment subsidy to seasonal workers are already provided for by Law 1545/1985. In other words, we have a comprehensive, clear legislative framework that ensures order and legality in the labour market. What you are asking for on behalf of seasonal workers in specific enterprises is the abolition of the existing legislative framework and the inclusion of all workers without conditions and conditions in the unemployment fund. You are asking for basic provisions to be abolished which determine the conditions for granting unemployment benefit, as well as for changing the circular that characterises businesses seasonal or non-seasonal. In addition, you are asking us to make a visa for health books without conditions and conditions, to ensure a pension with two thousand seasonal names, to abolish the law imposing four hundred marks in the last four years before retirement, and to incorporate the workers of these businesses into the heavy and unhealthy professions. In any case, my dear colleague, I cannot honestly agree with all these proposals you have made, because they cannot be implemented. In my dentistry, I will be more specific about the issue you raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Of course we ask, Minister, and I will tell you why, but it is possible for you that it is about the profits of the major business groups. We'll say a lot. And in the past few days we have said and the next few days we will say more specifically. But here we ask you what you are going to do with these thousands you have literally crushed with your policy, with your laws, because there are those people we're talking about, you really broke them from everywhere. How? We remind you: You financed the Lanars. They moved their factories to the Balkans and sent thousands to unemployment. Along with SYRIZA you voted never to get to the pension, and the last bill confirmed it. Together with SYRIZA, you dismantled the collective labour contracts and secured them the two-three months working on hunger wages. Some of those who are trying to survive a month longer with a little piece of land left to them, you also got the new CAP. The other day, you voted to take the houses away because they're a cop! And that was not enough, with the months - what most people are working on - with targeted laws that they cannot get the unemployment benefit from being able to consider the disease booklet. They can't even get sick, that is, they can't. We're literally talking - I don't know, so it seems - about real pogroms, as if you were planning their slow death, and you didn't even leave a paperwork to try to survive. We're talking about a time policy. And this case against us is not an isolated unfortunate phenomenon, it is the mirror and the future of everyone if they let you finish your "good" work. Minister, we think we are all being rewarded here by the hard work of our people and not by those who you and SYRIZA have taxed - bankers, shipowners, industrialists - we are being paid for by those who fight at work and do not even take it off. We are not paid to apply the BSE, the parasites, in other words, to the economy that produces nothing and sucks everything that is produced. We are paid to stir our minds to find ways to plan and organize a life better and easier. And you have all the tools in your hands, Minister. You have the advancement of science and technology, you have the resources and conditions to eject production into all branches. And I don't know who really gave you the right to turn our people back to the middle ages with this proud signature of yours on all that is going on and history and progress backwards. Of course, however, we must say that it did not even give you about 20% that put you up to governance, because even those who are prepared to deceive them with the new abortion you bring for your unpaid overtime, the break-up of the eighth and the hunting of trade union action, the great pain of your bosses. And because, you know, the messages come that you will not even have on your side, you bring it - forgive me - while our people fight with nails and with teeth, to save their health and life from the tourist coronary, with which you have flooded the country and dispersed it massively in the workplaces of work, the public transport, the schools, the nursing homes and many other places. This black one, in fact, at the moment you, fully coordinated and organised, are preparing for the workers a new dirty blow, the most insidious, we must say, a way. We think you're joking about this situation, as it shapes and we ask you what exactly you're going to do in this period with this law. Are you going to dress up in history? Are you going to put on a trip to class struggle? We say, Minister, that it will reward you - of course we mean your governments and yours and yours and the previous one - the story of why he did so with the previous one, Laskaris. To conclude, what workers are asking for in the diagrams, Minister, is nothing but a temporary breath of survival and that is all. It's the least, it's the elementary, and it's still a shame to talk about it in here. They must be satisfied today. Otherwise, we are talking about systematic extermination, Minister, and I think that no one has given you this right. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u51	The honourable Member did not speak of the specific question he raised in his denunciation. He turned the question into a political issue, which he has always raised, ideologically, which the Communist Party believes about the existence of human life on the planet, about the organization of the way of life, about society and the economy. This is what the colleague of the Communist Party described on behalf of the Communist Party. I respond directly to your question, because we will bring about a great change in the labour market with the law, which will actually come in November. Because we are simply a responsible government that believes in reforms. Because Greece cannot stand by. Because Greece can't stay behind. Because we must and will do so, in line with the best European practices, with the guidelines of the International Labour Organisation, which, at the end of the day, these guidelines and these changes will benefit, Mr President, the worker himself. They broaden the scope through which businesses can come to the country and create jobs and raise workers' wages and not leave children abroad and improve the country's competitiveness. Of course, what I'm saying is unknown to you or are known, but we're two different worlds. Your world is ideal, where there is some money you can share, wages against capital and the rest. But I just think that at some point your ideas, your ideas, my ideas, could take action, I'm shivered! Think of the workers in an environment that would be your own ideas applied to the economy and society! You think about it? Of course, there would be justice, the justice of the cubicle! Everyone's stable and all a home of work, if they've had it. Everyone in the morning in a job, as it was before with your relative politicians in Russia, a regime that fell. I have asked many times to tell me a part of the world you are talking about is being implemented, you have never told me. In any case, I want to tell you this: I very much wish to tell you that I share your concern for the workers. But that is not just a privileged right to yours. It's all of us. We're all sensitive. We simply believe that to support the worker, wealth needs to be created in society. To create wealth through which you will give the worker and job opportunities and increased wages, there must be competition, a free market economy. You are the model that you propose is a country closed with wires, without transactions, a single price, below all, poverty, hunger and a pile. Well, we don't agree. Even what you're saying can't be done. Greece through the years has gained a strong democracy. The parties succeed each other after elections. Legislative initiatives are coming. Today there is an institutional framework, which both SYRIZA and PASOK have kept for the way in which they receive the unemployment benefit, all the aid is given. That's all there is. If there are periods when we can improve it, here we are to improve everything for the better. I think that's the best answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, too. Next is the sixth under number 87/26-10-2020, a topical question by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: “The registration of clubs in the Registry of Sports Associations of the General Secretariat of Sports (GA)”. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Eleftherios Ausgeakis. Here you go, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Based on this picture, there is a very long delay in the control of union applications for the Registry of Sports Associations. This delay, of course, comes at a time when the unions have been in a very bad position on the occasion of the coronary crisis, along with the suffocating time and bureaucratic frameworks laid down by the government and the Minister for Registration. And while people in the unions have been running since May to regain the documents for registering, spending time and money like yourself, Minister, you announced on 25 October, two thousand nine hundred thirty unions and only one hundred seventeen fulfil both criteria - racing and economic - that is, only 5.41% of the unions based on the current figures have the right to the forthcoming elections. And that is why you are proud to say that almost 95% of the controlled unions are illegal and that they will not take part in the elections. And not only that, but they will not have the right to participate in the championships, they will not have the right to use facilities, they will not have the right to grant them. First of all, there is an incredible impediment to the procedure for the registration of trade unions. Association that have submitted the supporting documents since May, they do not know, if ultimately, all the documents they have provided are fine. The risk of being considered late is visible when it is known that the submission procedure provides for a number of quarterly documents such as confirmations from the regions. Also, there are clubs cultivating a lot of sports that have been mentioned - so also the right to vote in elections - in more than one federation. These unions, while in time they have submitted their documents, still do not know whether they have a lack of documents and what federation, so that they are in danger of losing the right to vote in elections. For example, a club that has many sports, which belong to more than one federations what will it do, if it's okay with one sport and isn't okay with the other sport? Does that mean they're not legalized to go to the vote? Thirdly, where does it appear that the audit must include two economic and racing criteria? In our view, you are deliberately linking the register to the unions' finances and trying to create impressions, that is, to lie. What does the feds have to do with and you blame them as illegal with the financial data they need for the register? It's not the feds' job to control union books. This is a job for the regions, Minister. These are the union control body. The federation checks for the recognition of the statutes and their activities. A club from the General Secretariat of Sports takes athletic recognition and then is directed to the Federation, to register with the athletic recognition. This register of athletic recognition should reasonably be held by the General Secretariat of Sports. Where is he? Don't you have it? You need to answer that. And to make it clearer the question: Where is the register of the General Secretariat of Sports since 2016? Do you have it? If so, present it! If you don't have it, you have to say what happened to this record. If it became leaf and feather, we should know. Who is responsible for this, and why the bride should pay her the unions and federations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u54	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u55	Fourthly - and I shall end, Mr President - the registration procedure is, of course, much more complicated by scandalous manipulations on the part of the Ministry and the General Secretariat. Indicate directly the establishment and management of the registry to a private company. Why? Isn't the General Secretariat capable of handling it? Isn't the staff enough? Does it not have a competent authority to do so and choose a private company and, in fact, when we know that a committee has been set up in the General Secretariat of Sports for the registry? Besides, the General Secretariat, as you have said, is being renewed, new sections are being created and more than six hundred are working. So he has the ability and experience of the staff to handle it. And yet, you preferred to give the register to individuals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Synatiakis, you'll have to finish. You've already spoken five minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I will only raise the question. So we ask you, Minister, what immediate actions will you take, given that the period of conduct of antiquities in national sports federations begins in November, this month, in order to ensure that there will be no union that will lose the right to vote while it has submitted all the documents in good time? Do you intend, as is right, to extend a reasonable period of time in order to make a statement of what is required and to register? Finally, why has the Sports Secretary-General not been entrusted with the creation and operation of the registry and proceed to the direct assignment of a private company? To what is this decision serving? Can a private company have access to the management of the registry for data that the General Secretariat of Sport should only have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u58	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me to begin with something extremely important. This is the specialisation of the new measures against the pandemic and the suspension of operation of sports facilities included in the Joint Ministerial Decision signed within a short time by all fellow ministers and will take the road to the National Printing Office. This joint ministerial decision includes, inter alia, the continuation of the top categories in national football and basketball championships, since their health protocol includes weekly compulsory, weekly screening for COVID -19, team international matches, the exceptionally permission to train athletes who prepare for Olympic and Paralympic games, as well as the exceptional permission for individual use of sports facilities in several open space sports. In particular, for 'yellow' areas, training and competitions will be conducted clearly without viewers. The maximum number of trainees per installation shall be reduced to 75%, in accordance with the operating conditions of sports and sports facilities and swimming pools and the relevant table with the maximum number of trainees per installation. Races in organised sports facilities are only allowed by the presence of the necessary factors of racing. Outside organised sports establishments are allowed with a limit of fifty participants in the racing procedures. Official and friendly matches are suspended in all categories of team sports, with the exception of matches taking part in the national championships that have not been suspended and training is allowed. The use of a mask during sport is not required. With regard to further directives and health protocols for training and struggles, as posted on the website of the General Secretariat of Sport, all the relevant answers will of course be given. Now, at the level of increased risk, commonly'red', the activities in sports facilities, as well as any kind of sporting manifestations of a massive alternative spiritual or entertainment character, are suspended. Only individual exercise and sport outside public spaces are allowed, but without coaches. Excludes the suspension of the operation of sports facilities for the training and matches of teams participating in the Football Championship of the First National Class of Men, Super League 1, and the Basketball Championships, without the presence of viewers, whose teams follow a health protocol including the weekly screening of athletes for COVID -19, with an antigen test by accredited laboratories. Also, the European Champions League, Europa League, Euroleague, EPCL, according to the UEFA Euro League and FIFA special protocols, and the operation of open sports facilities using sports clubs and groups that are legally licensed exclusively for individual use, without coaches and without the presence of viewers in the following individual sports: sporting, shooting, archery, sailing with one-sided crew, rowing with one-sided crew, canoe kayak, water skiing, cycling, riding, motor sports and mountain sports. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Furthermore, the use of sports facilities, as reported in the nominal situations issued by the General Secretariat of Sports, following a recommendation by the Hellenic Olympic Committee and the Greek Paralympic Committee to meet their preparation needs for the 2021 Olympics and Paralympic Games in Tokyo. Further instructions for this category will be provided in the special protocols that will be posted on the site of the General Secretariat of Sports. Finally, it should be noted that there is further consideration of the possibility of using sports facilities by those referring to the nominal situations to be published by the General Secretariat of Sports on the recommendation of the Hellenic Olympic and Paralympic Committee to meet the needs of preparation for European and global championships. In addition, the exceptional operation of sports facilities for group training and races that participate in the top of the national team sports classes, such as Super League 2 and Men's Volley Championships, in addition to the Super League 1st National Soccer Championship and Basketball Championship Basketball Championship, without always having viewers and whose teams will follow a health protocol that includes mandatory weekly screening of athletes for COVID -19, with antigen test by an accredited laboratory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Here you are, Mr Synthraki, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u61	What do you mean, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u62	You have covered your dentistry as well, but in any case, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u63	I'm really sorry, but it starts with the ministers not answering after the questioner's prototype and throwing the ball into the stands. It is unacceptable what is happening. Other ministers, such as Mr. Brutsis, etc., have done so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u64	Look, how each responds is one's own topic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u65	In any case, I will not fall into the trap of placing myself on the pandemic measures - which is, of course, a serious issue - because this is a completely different matter. Mr. Ignace, let me say something about the same subject again, about the register. You have no connection to reality. I say this because you have turned the issue of the register into an end in itself, indifferent to the tragic consequences it will have for amateur sport, for clubs, for athletes, for actors and for workers. We're just before the Olympic Games. For the last six months since May, the people of sports clubs have literally been insane to catch up to deadlines in order to gather the documents and you have been accusing them of being illegal. Illegal, of course, are not the same, nor are they the athletes and their discrimination. They are people, retired, self-employed, who volunteer for hours endless, are wasting effort and money in order to keep the sports clubs up. These clubs are sighing to pay their workers, coaches, and provide self-evident to athletes, from clothing to travel for the races every month. The unions are still waiting, Minister, for the crumbs of the General Secretariat of Sports. And to have a good question, where are these infamous 12 million euros that you would be giving to the unions? In two months it's over in 2020 and they still haven't got a penny of sacks! Or will the final amount of the total grant not be EUR 12 million, but will be determined on the basis of how many unions eventually pass the Ruvik of the bureaucracy you have imposed? Do you realize that you are afflicting yourself in this way and condemning thousands of unions? Allow me, but this reminds me of the clearing of accounts. It is clear that you want to control administrations of unions, associations and, above all, federations. All that remains, Minister, is to tell us which unions you want to legitimize and what persons you want to become in the administrations, so that you can control them! I'll bring you a very simple example. Recently, in Heraklion, in our town, at the General Assembly of the European Federation of Tennis, with the election of the new management board, the President of the Hellenic Federation was elected, in fact, between forty-eight countries in Europe. In other words, for the Board of Directors of the European Federation, is it capable of being elected in its own country? There are federations that have already announced election date. It is the lifting of burdens, the SCA that has appointed on 12 October the date of elections. Can you tell us whether elections will take place and how, with this mess you are solely responsible for? Or do you intend to go to the appointment of temporary administrations? This is a disgraceful development, in our view, which affects you personally and of course the entire government. We are not talking about it. But we would tell you not to think about going to temporary court administrations invoking them measured on your finger clubs validly, because you will create a great problem in sports on the eve of the Olympic Games. If you don't go to temporary administration, what are you going to do? Will the feds proceed to elections, and then you will declare them inferior? Don't think of either one or the other. The best thing you can do is to extend the election and take place after the Olympic Games, with the completion of the Olympic cycle, as is the Olympic Charter. It's the best solution you can give at this stage. Finally, with regard to the coaches - I conclude, Mr President - you say that you want to put order and move the finger on the JRC. You did so yesterday in the debate on the conventions in plenary. You are trying to cover your exterior attitude to the unions and federations by invoking the existing problem of working gallery to coaches and not just. To respond to which parties and what governments have legislated the working jungle in all the workplaces, black work, part-time work, uninsured work, the crumbs they take to survive. Your parties and your governments are. What you are doing now under the legislative acts, under the pretext of pandemic, unpaid ten-hour work and crumbs of 534 euros. So that's the reality. Instead of dealing with the burning problems of sport and especially amateur sport, you show a special zeal...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. After all, Mr Aigenakis will speak so much more in order to cover it, since he has not spoken in his protagonists. So instead of dealing with the burning problems of sport, you have been dealing with the sports organisations register for so long with the better recording of sports clubs. And to close, Mr President, I will remind you of what the New Democracy said by Mrs Anna Karamanlis, who was the rapporteur of the New Democracy in the 2016 draft law on SYRIZA, when the bill came. You were out on the tiles. Mrs Karamanlis said: "About the second part of the bill, Article 24, which refers to the creation of the register, is governed by a strong bureaucratic concept. The institutions, the federations, have told you that they are facing very serious problems. You create an extremely suffocating framework that is impossible to function. Nor is it realistic to charge amateur associations, which, in the vast majority of them, are not subsidised by the State, with excessive and unfavourable obligations.’ And a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u68	Come on, Mr. Symphony.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u69	And we ask you: When were you right? Then, with the rapporteur, Mrs Anna Karamanlis, or now, what New Democracy and you personally do? So you have a very serious responsibility. You need to give concrete answers to the proposal we have put forward as a JRC, now, in this debate that is being held, to postpone the completion of this process in order to enable the unions to join.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Sympathy, I'm almost scared! Trust me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Synatiakis, I'm not just talking about you. I've told everyone. If we are talking here about 12 and a half minutes, instead of the five you are entitled, the decision of the Conference of Presidents is not being respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, a great deal of effort is needed to cover the gap in knowledge and information that Mr Synthetis and his party have, the ignorance of the space that he seems to represent or transports for the field of sport.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u73	Please, ladies and gentlemen, a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u74	I'm really scared, Mr. Symphony! I'm scared! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Where are you talking? Are you addressing the Communist Party? Not to us, elsewhere you go and talk like this and that tone. This is parliamentary control. You have every right to ask, but not to threaten. Threats elsewhere! Not here. This is Parliament. So let's go to the questions you're told, you're written and you're transferred. You don't even know what you're saying right now. I'm sorry, but you don't know what you're saying. I'm really sorry. So let's go. Didn't a man tell you, did he find a blessed man tell you that there's no record of amateur unions in the Ministry, that he was destroyed through a virus, through cyberattack, and there's nothing? Wasn't a single person found to tell you that it was written before? Not even one of them? And you come here and you say refreshing things and you wonder why we gave it to a private company and why the employees aren't enough. Um, it's not enough! That's why you didn't find a man, a partner to tell you what exactly is happening and how many people that service has. So, what do you mean? That they're untrue or that they don't care about the employees we've got at the Ministry who are specialists in these matters? Is that what you want to tell us? Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I have to tell you people are doing their job very well, they're excellent, they work excellently...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u75	I'm saying the opposite. You...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u76	Please, I have listened very carefully, I have not interrupted you. Mr President, I cannot agree to be interrupted by Mr. Synthrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Sympathy, don't interrupt, nobody interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u78	Smart guys are good, but not here, and when you don't know a thing, it's good not to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u79	For the private company, tell us about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u80	So I continue to say, because you have asked a lot of questions, about the 12 million if they exist or do not exist. Clearly there are. What's your position of confusing her? If you read the KIC's announcements and locations, yours, Koutsuba's, you'll understand you don't know what you're talking about. Do you want money even to be given to those who do not exist but to a statute? Is that what you're thinking? So, you want us to share air money, father, uncontrollably, without knowing where and where they're going and how they're going to spend? Is that what you're thinking? We tell you clearly not to. That is why I would like to inform you today, Mr Synergy, because you have been in the same agony. Do you remember in the first bill, which you said "do registries to have them as a mechanism"? And of course, when we presented and uploaded to the official page of the General Sports Secretariat everything, you had nothing to say. Soft after! Why did you not speak, say: 'Yes, I was wrong, we were wrong, as a JRC, when we accused you of creating mechanisms'. All the evidence is accessible to everyone, we have nothing, but nothing to hide and no legal, no householder has anything to hide. But even all those who are struggling to legitimise, settle their unions, tell them a good thing, we strengthen them and not myself personally, but the executives of the Ministry of Sports, for whom you have not said a good word. You have not found the courage to say a good word to civil servants who give their souls weekends, holidays to do their job well, to carry out this very difficult work that is done for the first time at the Ministry of Sports. We come and say the following in detail. From 19 May 2020 until today, which officially started operating the register, i.e. May, June, August, September, October, October, and entered November, that is, six months and went to the seven months that it is working, with these terrible and terrible documents, which are the miniums provided for by the legislation not of our own, but of previous years - we have reduced the number of supporting documents and I repeat that six months have passed and entered the seventh - we have five thousand three hundred ninety clubs, which opened a card in the register. Of these four thousand nine hundred eighty-seven unions went ahead with the application, of which three thousand two hundred eighty-five unions completed the application, i.e. 65.9%, of which a thousand seven hundred two had not yet completed the application, but there is a strong mobility and we are very optimistic that this figure will be reduced very much, but very much. Of the three thousand two hundred eighty-five union applications in two thousand seven hundred sixty-nine, the control of racing and economic criteria, based on the sport law, Mr. Synhronakis, has been completed. You ignore that, too. I'm sorry. Get a man to prepare you a speech before you come here! You ask me things that you should know yourself, as a parliamentarian and, in fact, experienced! We're talking about conditions that refer to the oldest sports laws, not the present one, not even ours. Don't you know basic things and you come here and do parliamentary control for me? Check me out, but in something for which, if anything, you will have been informed shortly before entering the Chamber. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We therefore have the number of two hundred and six unions, which are perfectly legal, both at a racing and at an economic level. In other words, we have an increase of 7.4% in this area. We have an improvement. This means that he's going into a mess you're telling us about, the other day, you've been telling us something else about the JRC's announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u81	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u82	There's a class in a landscape that, if anything, could not only be invoked by someone in this space. And there was no order, because no one was concerned and systematically involved in seeing what is happening to what is called a sports family. I would like to congratulate once again and praise all the administrative actors, who have voluntarily done an incredible job, have kept amateur sports clubs up and, of course, have managed to house and constantly house their place, their club and produce athletes, offer serious services. We will reward them and strengthen them. We also want to give the right - and I reply to a last question from you, Mr President - to enter and write as many amateur sports clubs as possible. We won't put any barrier or close the register. We want the majority or all or more to come, but they are legal, household and transparent and informative to all sides, without any discrimination, without any restriction, and without financial support after twelve years - you have escaped you - and, of course, they have the right to elect, as is the case in every legitimate democratic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u83	We move on to the debate of the seventh under number 96/26-10-2020 on the second time question of the second question of the Hercule of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The need to amend legislation on Higher Military Schools of Officials (ASS) Order 1992/Category 1990". The question will be answered by the Minister of National Defence, Mr Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, this is a small matter now, so you'll keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. With the timely question in fact, we are highlighting the need to amend the legislation on Higher Military Schools 1992, which were registered in 1990. And that's why? By Article 37 of the EEC Treaty. 4495 of 2017 career issues were settled, including the graduates' graduation of the class '92s. The aim of the legislature was to harmonise their grading developments in full correspondence with what they had at times been predicted for officers from the same institution in earlier classes. However, the way in which the provisions of this Act are formulated seems to have created some typical tactics, which have caused problems in the course of this year's regular annual crises. In particular, on the basis of that provision, the General Staff of the Army correctly and in good time has included those graduates of the Drought Army in the regular crisis tables for the year 2020-2021. However, these strains were later informed that they responded to the above tables, following a systematic examination of the issue, where it was considered that the necessary conditions were not met for their promotion in imminent crises, in the absence of the explicit provision of the law for the measurement and calculation of their pre-service. Something like that applies to the officers at the Navy. Note that the dates within which the officers of the order of '92 of the Armed Forces have to be judged have elapsed. For the Navy, it expired on 4 September 2020. For the Mississippi Army, it expired on 29 October 2020, the day before yesterday. While for the Air Force, it will arrive within the next 10 days and have not been launched for crisis and promotion, despite the fact that these officers have complemented what the law defines and should have already been promoted to the next level. That is why you are asking, Mr Minister, whether you intend to amend Article 37 of the Treaty immediately. 4494 of 2017 by which these men and women of the order of '92, registered in 1990, were included in the provisions of Law 2439 of 1996 in a way that resolves the problem created for the graduates of the Higher Staff Graduates of '92. And I reserve my remarks on the ranks of '91 and '92. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u85	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u86	Mr Colleagues, I would advise you to ask a separate question for those of the order of '91 and not dentistry, but in any case for them, since it is the spirit of the solution for them of the order of '90s similarly, a solution is being sought. And I think that with the same logic as it is a solution for those who have to do with the '90s, it will also be found for others. Well, that's good. I think it is right that we come and resolve it. It has already been taken into account by the Ministry's political leadership and by parliamentary control and other questions and colleagues. However, I would say that you have asked your own timely question at the best possible point, because in many things it is important that Timing too. So the issue has also been addressed by the general staff sectors. This is a problem that has risen for several years. It concerns a career provision for active officers from the Higher Military Schools of Officials, the PSAs, through which the ambiguous wording of the letter of the law results in a distorted application, by which unequal treatment is of course reserved in similar situations. This should therefore be corrected. What exactly is going on? Under Article 37 of Law 4494/2017, those who completed twenty-five years of actual military service by 31 December 2015, namely those who were ranked and in 1990, were included in the restrictive application of the provisions of Law 2439/1996. As a matter of fact, it is clear from the above-mentioned arrangement that the time of measurement and calculation of their pre-service, just as they were classified between 1 January 1988 and 31 January 1989, namely those who had completed twenty-five years of service by 31 December 2014, not of 2015, which has to do with the rankings of 1990. How many is this about? Three hundred three officers of the Drought Army, one hundred eighty-six of the Navy and sixty-sixteen-six of the Air Force. In other words, it concerns six hundred and fifty five officers. The problem was long ago. Because we have taken warmly to the Ministry of National Defence to resolve problems that come from old, small or large, we have decided to resolve this problem by legislative regulation. There has already been internal consultation and coordination of the three branches of the Armed Forces at the Ministry. Any visual differences were there, I'd say, they got into the table, they got discussed, they got over. We are now ready to proceed with a legislative process and a proposal for legislation to make it manifest, without doubt or ambiguity, the procedure for calculating the above-mentioned years of service on analogous basis, as we have said, with the officials of their own origin who had completed twenty-five years of service by 31 December 2014. I am pleased, therefore, to inform you today that in the draft law which we are about to put to the vote in November on public procurement and procurement matters in defence and security, as well as other provisions of the Ministry of National Defence, we intend to include a provision to resolve this problem of officials assigned in 1990. It is therefore a final solution, and the next attempt on a similar problem that is the same logic, will be to do with those who joined in 1991. At the moment they are suffering from this very distortion, which is also about the ones of the colleague's question today, which makes provision for a final solution to the bill that will come. It is our duty to include them all in the view that the spirit of this provision, therefore, and this correction, is the same: equal treatment of similar situations and not unequal treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I think that when solutions are given, the time spent on secondary speech is very short. He was right to say that some ministers come and say other than others in their first speech. Then, of course, how do you get a second? It is not Mr Panayotopoulos within them because, as you have seen, he spoke about the substance. In this respect, we did, Minister, submit a question in May. Other colleagues had testified. Your answer in June was that we had to deal with the problem we have put to you and, of course, you said in writing that you would go into legislation. So we come not only to remind you, but also to speed up the solution because the time has expired in which the crises should have taken place. That was why we came back to timely time and not to trouble you apparently. I would like to say that the ambiguity we had mentioned at the time when Mr 4487 was discussed brought these misunderstandings and problems. We therefore call for a recast of the provision in question for justice to be made in such a way that the matter can be resolved over time, that is, that there is no need for further regulation. It is very good that you said that you will deal with the same spirit and the graduates of the other classes we have spoken about, registered 1991 and 1992. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. You voted in favour of the previous question. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Mr Colleague, you understand that our intention is to resolve these distortions from the past due to certain ambiguities in previous laws. Here we are to point them out one - one and come to solve them. Today I can inform you of the final solution to the problem with regard to the 1990 order. Similarly, calculations are made for the staff and the Ministry to solve the similar problem, which is the same as I would say in 1991. As you know, 1992 is the'separate line' year between old and new insured persons. Therefore, officials in the order of 1992 who have just taken up the line from the negative side of these arrangements, who have more to do with their career development than with their socio-security rights, may also come up. That's another conversation. Today, therefore, this problem is now being resolved for the 1990 CSCE class. I don't know if we can make it happen, but we might be able to make it by the time the bill was voted on. It is more legal at the moment, because I understand the issues that concern supplies to the Armed Forces may be put to the vote on committees and plenary later along with the Ministry of Development bill on public procurement governing the status of procurement in the public sector. In any case, however, whatever the case may be, it is up to us to regulate this problem, which you rightly say needs to be addressed and, of course, I also give you the relevant contribution in trying to resolve it. There is no doubt about that. When we focus on the substance of the problems and communicate them between us as representatives of this House and as government, I think that there is all the ground and all the good will to communicate and solve many of them. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u91	And I thank you both. This is the essence of parliamentary control, to be clear, simple and concise, as has now been done. You see, the total time of eleven minutes was only six and a half minutes. We enter the first under number 84/26-10-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, on the subject: 'Exemption of rural areas affected by the 'Janus' cyclone by the remote sensing of the coming spring'. The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Makis Voridis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I am pleased that the ministers are coming to the topical questions and are also ensuring that they are given solutions, as Mr Panagiotopoulos has already done. If I tabled this question to the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Voridis, it is because cyclone 'Janus' has caused too many problems in specific areas of the country, particularly in Carditsa, Larisa and Magnesia. The farmers know that since the first moment the Ministry of Rural Development has been fasting toward them. The damages are already paid and we think that the advances will be paid in the next few days. This proves a concern of the Ministry, a high speed, unprecedented, because until now the compensation was given in seven to eight months and now a month has passed since bad weather. But there are some fears, Minister, because you know the intensity of the phenomenon, of the 'Janu' cyclone, which created great corrosion on many lands in these areas. There is a fear among these farmers that they will deal with issues of their subsidies to the so-called 'principalisation', but also with what land is in a nitrate programme, because remote sensing can record this erosion of the soil, these roots created. You know, too many farmers work on their own means to restore to some extent the image of their land. There's been a fertile terrain transfer. It was very intense the rainfall, two hundred tons of water per acre. I think those numbers aren't recorded. We call on the Ministry not to have any problems in the next and subsequent season, and either to exclude from remote sensing or to make provision for emergency situations so that they do not have a problem. They have suffered the damage, they have no danger of losing some of their subsidies. Because one of the conditions of OPECE for subsidies is the good agricultural situation of the land. This is impossible for some farms in the areas affected by these phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Bukkaro. Mr. Minister, Mr. Vorides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Colleague for the question. This is an opportunity, because we have now come to the stage of implementing the government's compensation commitments in this area, to thank all those who worked very hard, above all the employees of the ELGA. But I must also thank Parliament because it has decided and voted for a specific framework, following our proposal, on aid and compensation for these. But I must also thank the administration of ELGA and Andreas Lykourenzos and Andreas Dukas for having really worked very hard to make it possible, in fact, to make something unprecedented, and the level of compensation and the time when the compensation is paid is unprecedented. It's literally unprecedented. We do not have a previous example that, at this speed, compensation will be paid to our producers after such a difficult and great and extensive weather phenomenon, which has led to these major disasters. You are raising an important and crucial issue, which I will say has two parameters. You raised it one by one. I would like to add to the second one - you say it in your question - and, if necessary, we will have time for secondary education to develop it a little more. You raise the question of associated aid. The associated aid, for those who are following us and are not necessarily familiar with the issues of the primary sector, is aid linked to support for a specific type of crop, is additional, additional aid above direct aid, in addition to direct payments, and is usually called linked, therefore, to certain conditions, of certain conditions. One of the classic conditions for receiving the connected is the delivery of a minimum quantity per acre and many times is linked to quality characteristics, quantity and quality. You ask me: After this disaster, will our producers be able to respond to this additional criterion? They may not be able to deliver this minimum quantity or the specified quality. The answers are contained in a series of ministerial decisions, but also in the European Regulation itself. Without having to go to remote sensing issues, which is another handling, however, here in the case of cotton, we have the 1178/27361/10-3-2015 ministerial decision where performance can be reduced if there are reasons for force majeure. And, as a result of force majeure, the extreme weather and destruction are identified. The same applies to Ministerial Decision 1944/12/2015 and in relation to it, 3421/2017, which concerns rice. The same is true, and perhaps this is the most important, Regulation 1306 of 2013 in Article 2 where force majeure and exceptional circumstances, among other things, the serious natural disaster that causes significant damage to the holding. Therefore, our producer is exempted from these obligations if it is deemed that there is force majeure, which, as a force majeure, describes this serious damage, this widespread catastrophe. There is therefore no need for concern in this respect. On the second issue which is land that we need to see if they are suitable for cultivation, this is about the future, and I will continue in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u96	Minister, I see that the issue of the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of production against related aid is covered by a series of ministerial decisions. I would also like you to inform us of the good agricultural situation in the land, because this is also a condition, and if it is covered by extreme weather phenomena and this picture. How long has it been covered? Is it covered for the following or after the growing season? And since you have taken care of the question before I ask you, Minister, I will take advantage of the time and ask you whether we have anything younger to compensate for grandchildren, i.e. all these corrosions that have taken place and require effort and money from our farmers for the restoration of their land, of their land. Because if they need to make a request again to the ELGA, I must say that this is the first time that claims for compensation to the ELGA have also received such damages, that is, damages to the areas and damages to the equipment of the farmers. This has not happened in the past. But we are aware that it may be necessary for our farmers to reapply for compensation, since you are looking in cooperation with the appropriate ministries for ways of compensation for both the equipment and the backdrop of our farmers. I give you, and I apologise for that, and one more matter. If you're opportunity, you can answer us, or with another chance I'll bring it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr Buquoore, for the time. Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u98	In addition, I will say that in addition to what I said about special aid, such as the nitrates measure, there are also ministerial decisions which, for example, stipulate that force majeure and exceptional circumstances may be recognised in particular in the following cases, which causes serious damage to the farm. So, indistinctly, united, in a series of ministerial decisions that essentially repeat the same wording, this issue is regulated and should not be raised. But what do you care about her? Because this is about the issue of aid, support for our producers. We are mainly and primarily concerned with restoring objective production conditions. So this is an additional issue that we are considering. It has a technical aspect. What is the technical aspect? What is the problem that has been created? There are, in some cases, water corrosions, there are in other cases the movement of fertilizers which have surpassed on the ground. So we must now see how the conditions of production are shaped if this land is suitable for cultivation. What are we gonna do? We'll do what we've already done. We will send in staircases of the ELGO "DIMITRA" in order to determine whether or not these parcels are suitable to continue cultivation. In the event of their inappropriateness, then we need to find ways of relying on our producer in order to be able to regain them in good condition. So this is a process in progress. It's something we'll find in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u99	And those who have restored the damage?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u100	And that's a piece. If the expenditure has already been incurred, we will see what it is that we can and must do in relation to it. However, it is - and this is clear and I want it to be clear - that it is essential not only to ensure conditions of production through support for the incomes of our producers, but above all to ensure productive conditions, production conditions and development. Therefore, you should know that this is at the heart of our agony and concern, regardless of and beyond the issue of the compensation to be paid in any case, and as we have said, they are paid in this context.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. Next question to be debated is the second question, number 94/26-10-2020, on 'Reimbursement of oil production and other crops from the recent disasters and increased compensation for farmers - producers of vegetables'. And this is where Mr. Vorides will answer. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President, and we hope that answers will also be brief. It is known that recent extreme weather phenomena hit olive cultivation in the northern part of Crete and elsewhere. I have information, if necessary, to testify. This, however, came as a follow-up to the worsening situation, which has been, as well as because of COVID, but also because of previous years of reduced income, they have, unfortunately, affected the economic situation of olive producers. At the same time, on the matter of greenhouses, which we have discussed before, the gardens which have been treated by the Ministry in order to support them, according to the representatives of operators in Crete and the four counties, the aids decided are too small and really needed to be revised. The amount of aid is EUR 9.7 million, while the estimates from regional services and other independent valuers are around EUR 100 million. And the producers say: OK, if there's economic weakness, but not 10 percent. The second thing I would like to put to you in relation to the amount of the recent aid for oilseed producers due to COVID is that the amount distributed, of course, is too small and even for the main recipients, the sum of EUR 30 in the acre obviously and does not correspond to the need for producers who are not primarily the farmers. I would like to point out, however, that within this ministerial decision too, the distribution has huge injustices, when, for example, a producer with ten acres will receive the acre from EUR 30 per acre, while a producer with eleven will receive EUR 60 per acre. And it's injustice you have to deal with. At the same time, I want you to let us know at what stage the famous dossier you have processed and submitted to the European Union is at last to be submitted. I don't really know, I want the briefing from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u103	Come on, Minister, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u104	I have said that I always respect and understand that living dialogue enables us to put a few more questions in time. However, this can also mean that it does not mean time, but the possibility. So, first I will stay on what Mr Kegeroglu asks me, and if there is time left, we may be able to answer the supplements. As regards the issues relating to the hails that occurred on 19 and 20 October 2020 in the wider area of the island of Crete, in the regional units of Heraklion, Chania, Lassithi and Rethymno, on various crops, such as olive crops, citrus crops, avocado crops, vegetable fields and undercover, there have been at the moment fifty one announcements and statements of injury made by producers. So far sixty-four statements have been made. In particular, for the Regional Unit of Heraklion one hundred and eighty-one, for Lasithi a hundred nine, for Chania eighty-two, for Rethymnon four hundred twenty-one. The 15-day end date for the submission of the declaration of notices dated 19 October shall be 3 November 2020 and 20 October 2020. So, at the moment, we are still in a situation where statements of damage are being made. The work of individualised assessments will then begin. There is one step of 11 geotechnics and priority will be given to vulnerable crops, as well as to crops in the harvest stage. At Heraklion's branch, with the mandate of the President of ELGA, there will be additional geotechnical staff to complete the allowances in good time. Therefore, in this part, the assessments and compensation procedure of the ELGA are followed and we move forward rapidly. Now, you're asking me about greenhouses. We have announced the aid in the field of greenhouses. I know there is, and I've seen the club announcements, whose view is that there should be greater support. First of all, you will allow me here very quickly to say something I have said before. I have not told you, Mr Colleague, but I have told other colleagues who are invoking numbers. The numbers should be documented. When someone says 100 million damage, he has to tell me where he's coming from. I would ask you - and I say this to you, but I also tell the producers, and I tell everyone - because the process of state aid is a process of auditors, we are not alone, it presupposes its approval by the European Commission, the evidence must have an elementary integrity. When someone tells me that we've suffered 100 million damage, I'm sorry, but it's causing me to start saying numbers, and that's where the numbers might bring us all into awkwardness. So I know that I am having an open and reliable dialogue with producers. With these producers I spent four hours with them, discussing their issues, in their own area, their cooperatives, and they know my opinion on these issues and on a number of issues that they have raised. I know they have a request for a larger payment. I have said that this will be reviewed, but in a more general context, which will relate to the productions concerned in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I was looking at the pictures while you were talking about the disasters. Indeed, they may also be considered incalculable. The recording, of course, made by ELGA services will show the exact height, which is measurable. What we need to see is that there are no crops left out. It is, of course, oil producers and greenhouses that are affected, but there are other crops. That is what we are calling for and we will wait for the next period with the support, if necessary, of the ELGA with human resources so that it can implement it. On the subject of aid due to COVID, your decision on greenhouses was about EUR 9.7 million. The estimates of EUR 100 million, to which I have referred on the basis of independent assessors, of course can or must be substantiated. Nothing can be said in the air. However, what is documented is that damage based on the loss of income of producers, who do so, to a significant extent, means aid of around EUR 30 million. This is on the basis of a document made by the clubs and presenting their own data. But you can, because you are the Minister and have the corresponding mechanisms available to the Ministry, make the corresponding assessments, because clearly we also have control by European institutions. But I think that this decision was too tight and on account of the budgetary issue. If we have no resources, of course, we will see from the available resources what we are doing. With regard to the level of damage, however, I too, with an initial assessment of the figures presented, can see that it is much more than EUR 9.7 million. Even if the EUR 100 million are too much, clearly it is not EUR 9.7 million. For olive oil, the decision that you recently adopted on 23 October 2020 is taking a major step. However, I am surprised to read that it is only 30 euros for the aid that is to do with the main-professional farmers. If you have ten acres, it's 30 euros. If you have eleven acres, it's 60 euros. Where does that come from, Minister? Look at it. It's a categorisation, if you like, with the hectares, which gives us a distorting effect. I think he needs a review. But tell us in dentistry - it doesn't take much time to tell us - where the file is. He's still in Acharnon, number two? I know they worked, despite COVID, people and processed him. In September, Mrs. Arabaji told us she was ready to leave. We need to see whether he has left and what committee he is going to check in the European Parliament too through the other procedures if they will examine it soon so that we have the result from the European Commission as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u107	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. You realise that the debate, which he says, is that it is EUR 100 million, but in the end it can be EUR 30 million to give us a question of the credibility of the claims. From EUR 100 million to EUR 30 million, we have already dropped EUR 70 million. We therefore gave EUR 10 million. The truth is that we are careful about aid issues. Why are we careful about aid? Because the aid must be fair and reasonable and why the aid comes from taxpayers' money. So we must be careful about aid issues. I have never said: 'You know, we can't give the money, because we don't have any money'. I haven't said that. I've said we're giving the money we have to give. If, however, there is an argument on the part of producers that says that we may have been too restrictive or too stubborn and stubborn, I say again, to see it. I'll explain, in what context we'll see. These are issues outside the timely question. However, since there is little time left and I do not abuse the time available for my reply, if you will allow me, Mr President, to refer to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u109	That's what all the regions are interested in oil production, so we're listening with interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u110	To reach agreement on the basics. First, ever until now, there has been no aid to olive oil production. This government is doing so for the first time. No one else did it. Secondly, we have done so by depleting the total amount available to us from the Rural Development Programme, by catching the upper limit. EUR 126 million is the whole that we can make available, in accordance with the percentage set out in the relevant amended European regulation, to give. The whole amount, therefore, that the country has taken it and put it in support of olive cultivation. You're telling me: 'It's coming a little.' The answer is that it is the total amount. I don't have any more. No, I do not only have the meaning of the financial restriction, but I do not have why the European regulation does not prohibit it. You say to me: 'Yes, but it's just the professionals.' It's just professionals. The professions had to be, firstly, to be this amount, because if all of them entered this amount, it would be about half - I am talking about area aid - and secondly, because this is a support measure for the coronary. Others, who are not professionally employed, but are heterogeneous and have an income from olive-growing, either not affected, because they may, for example, be a civil servant or a retired person, who has not been affected, has no reduction in his income from the coronary and therefore also has an additional income, or may have received aid from elsewhere. We therefore want to support professional farmers. And the last thing I want to say is this. You say to me: "You know as the measure escalates, one who has ten acres can be strengthened with an amount of alpha and the one who has eleven with a beta amount". That is what I would like to agree with you here. However, it is organised in this way by the European regulation. Personally, if I chose, I'd go to our classic area support. This is not allowed by the European regulation, which only accepts to be carried out, so let me say 'bugs', accusations. There will be a mismatch there, in the category, which you rightly point out on one side, at their borderline, may give rise to a feeling that there is a differentiation, but that is our obligation from the way the measure is structured within the transitional regulation, with the amendment that they have made. As far as the dossier is concerned, the dossier has been submitted, it is going through the internal procedure of the European Commission and I am waiting for it or the next Council of Ministers to make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Minister. Can I ask you something out of order, too? Would it not be better to make compensation generally depending on the production of oil rather than the acres?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u112	That's the old system. If you ask me, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u113	It is fair, however, because it also gives an incentive to go to produce. Anyway. We move on to the third with number 86/26-10-2020, a topical question from the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The disasters in agricultural production in Crete, from the recent quartzfall and the severe weather that hit the region." Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. We follow the previous debate - this is all about - because the intense weather phenomena in Crete which hit the northern coast of the island on October 20th and the hails on October 20th caused incalculable damage to olivefruit, in glasshouses, in bananas, in blooms, in open fruit and vegetables, mainly in the northern part of the island from Chania, in the area of Platania, in Mylopotamos, in Malia, in Hersonissos, in Gouves and in Sitia. The catastrophes in most regions reach 100%, while the consequences of the weather that continues will also be seen in the short term for other crops on the island with the degradation of natural crops. Especially in desperation are the small- and medium-sized olive producers, who are just before the harvest, and while they are in a dense position to produce them from the torch in 2019 and 2018, we are seeing their income evaporated again. The recent disaster is another blow to the survival of the bio-family farmers in addition to the devastation suffered by the coronary, especially in the greenhouse and horticultural products, for which, in our view, and in the view of the farmers themselves, the government has distributed crumbs. They are once again in despair for farmers with the elements of nature, with many damages recorded every year in their crops, without full coverage by the ELGA Regulation in 100% of all damage caused to the expected production and herbal capital, since there is no state funding and, furthermore, there is no timely compensation for them. That is why we are asking you, Minister, what urgent action will the Government take to ensure that the entire damaged small and medium-sized farmers - producers of Crete for all their damaged production and infrastructures, for example, are recruited by sufficient permanent and scientific training for direct and fair assessments and compensations, secondly, in order to compensate 100% of the damage caused by the catastrophe, in order to compensate 100% for the damage caused by small and medium-sized farmers - producers of Crete for all their damaged production and infrastructure, for example - and, thirdly, in order to cover the losses of the producers who have suffered the loss of their income with exceptional financial support, to freeze their debts on banks, taxes, municipalities, Efacas, and finally, in order to change the regulation of the ELGA - very centralised issue - and to ensure its State and public character, its State aid in order to secure the production and compensation without delay of all losses in the form of a 100% reduction in incomes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. The first part I've answered. You have heard the answer, Mr President. I don't know if you want me to repeat it. In fact, I would also like to inform you that the procedure is being followed. The statements are now being concluded, and therefore the process of assessment and determination of damage is a process under way. The deadline for the producers' declarations is over tomorrow, tomorrow and then we shall proceed to the well-known ELGA process. This is a covered cause. So we don't have that. On the question of what compensation they will receive, it will be the compensation provided for in the ELGA Regulation, and therefore there will be no amendment to the regulation if I am asked to do so. The procedure for the regulation will be followed. For the issues that you ask me, which concern the EFKA, or debts to banks and taxis and municipalities, these are issues that do not fall within my competence to answer you. You should ask the relevant ministers whether they are going to follow a specific probation procedure. You are asking to change the ELGA regulation and ensure its public and public character and state aid. On State aid, let us now be clearer. This is the only government in the last decade, which has given money to the ELGA budget from the state budget. It did so in June with 35 million euros, which was beneficial to producers because the losses that were to be paid in December were met to be paid in August. So that was very specific. It has also now done so with another EUR 40 million, following the approval of the amendment, which we proposed to Parliament and Parliament. In fact, I must say here that I was impressed by the fact that this amendment was voted on only by the New Democracy and the Change Movement and not by all the others involved in the process. It is the amendment that allowed us for 'January' to give 100% of the allowances, to give them advances, to strengthen people and to cover those who worked on 'January' with special amounts, but also to transfer funds from the state budget to support the ELGA in order to pay the compensation to farmers. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] This amendment, Mr President, has found it impressive - and I must mention it - that the parties were not unanimously voted on. Their right, obviously, but I do not understand how, on the one hand, we come and say why this is not the case and why, when the government does so, there is always some reason, some reason, in order not to vote on a purely favourable provision for our producers. Therefore, this is what is at the moment and if anything needs to be completed in my dentext, Mr President, I shall supplement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. Good evening, good week, good month! Here, Mr. Synthraki, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u118	Minister, I do not think you will disagree either that we are not in normal conditions, and these last disasters, like the ones with the 'January' and the others, come to be added to many other problems facing producers of the country and because of COVID -19 and because of the anti-agricultural policies which all governments have in our view, so that producers' incomes have been devastated in fact. The fall in production due to the torch in previous years due to the ELGA regulation is also expected to be added. In any case, the money you are saying now, which you have given ELGA to give, is obviously part of the sum of the actual sums that producers have to receive and does not cover the size and extent of the disaster suffered. Last year - November - we had huge flood disasters in Chania. We're talking Platania, Kissamos, Cantano, Celino. The damage was then estimated at around EUR 200 million. Will you tell me how the EUR 200 million goes out or how the EUR 100 million we talked about before the disasters come out? In any case, I am not the one to say whether it is EUR 200 million or whether it is EUR 100 million or whether it is EUR 150 million. However, it was a great disaster. A year after these floods, they haven't got a penny. Why? And I was in Kudura yesterday, on the bay of the JRC, and they are, in all respects, dissatisfied because you announced them that, for greenhouses, they would receive about EUR 500 per acre, when the cost - these are what the producers themselves said - for the construction of a greenhouse area amounts to EUR 20,000. We are now talking about the jokes, the sums, the EUR 400, the EUR 500, the EUR 550, somewhere there, in any case, I do not remember exactly the amount they mentioned. For the financial damage to the restrictive measures that have been said before, and which are costing 100 million euros, you gave 10 million euros. In any case, I do not know - and I repeat - whether it is EUR 100, if it is EUR 90, or whether it is EUR 110 or EUR 80, etc. However, it is huge that the EUR 10 million gap from the EUR 100 million is clear. Another EUR 100 million and another EUR 10 million, EUR 9.7 million, actually. We will not, however, get the needs of farmers, the poor farmers in the auction. For the olives, too, it was said that these 30 euros are crumbs. After all, you do not give all producers anything but the main farmers. Yes, but they are also those who are not primarily professional farmers, they are neither the majors of wealth nor the shipowners. They have been put in their pockets, they have been costed by the olive-growing period, which means that these people too had to join a compensation procedure. You say that the European regulation prohibits it. All right, find out to cover it from a government budget line. Why don't you do it? Why are you hiding behind European regulations at a time or at least why are you committing yourself? This is a more general issue concerning the European Union's issue. As regards bananas in Malia, the banana producers, you have not classified them as the greenhouses regime. So they're not entitled to compensation. We say that these bananas must also join. It is a strong sector in Crete, especially the banana production sector. You gave the farmers this about 3 euros because of Lockdown and the rest last year in Easter. But it doesn't cover everyone, you know that. Especially those who have decided not to produce milk, but to make cheese, for example, or those who have animals under 10 in this number are not entitled to compensation. Why? Our view is that compensation must be given on the basis of the number of animals - that is right - and cover them all. So farmers, Mr. Minister, consider that the destruction they have suffered is far greater than those so-called 'generative' benefits of the Ministry. Apart from all the others, is there a disaster this year? They will get the compensation at best after six months, after seven months, after one year, etc., while the needs for the new olive-growing season or for the “heathouses” are to be given immediately in order to meet the needs of the new period. And of course I come to the subject of ELGA, Minister. So I think there is a very serious issue with ELGA. You know that others haven't paid and others have been disfellowshipped by ELGA, because in the course of the course they just saw that there is no contradiction. Many, therefore, are not covered by the ELGA. And it's not that they didn't want to be in ELGA, but that either they didn't have to pay, or that they saw after a point and then that they paid, but that ELGA did not respond. We therefore believe that immediate measures should be taken. Of course, we are proposing the question of ELGA. The regulation needs to be changed, its public nature needs to be strengthened, and it must cover all the damage related to the damage to producers' plant capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. Here, Minister, you have three minutes to answer Mr. Synthriakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u120	I will repeat what I have said many times in this Chamber. The numbers here must be justified. When one comes in and says the damage is 200 million, he has to come in and tell us where $200 million is coming from. These vague discussions must be stopped, which I would ask all my colleagues to do. I say again that I honor and respect Parliament and Members of Parliament because they help us very much. They help us by raising issues and transferring concerns, but also by bringing producers closer together. We are interested in hearing from the Members about the issues they raise, but we also want the Members to enter a more complex dialogue with the producers. When you hear, for example, 'we damaged 200 million', do a little trouble and ask them 'Where do you get 200 million', 'what productions are they lost'? The Member should not just adopt the '200 million'. Let's have a dialogue. You have already heard '100 million' of the damage suffered by producers. Oh, not 100, but 30 million. Well, that's not an approach now, either it's 100 million or 30 million. Therefore, Members must operate - something I respect - as transfer stripes of what they hear from the citizens. Of course they have to do that. And I'm telling you, this is something we want and something that helps us, and we thank you for that. However, it also wants a critical attitude to make sense after the debate, because with '100 million', '200 million', '35 million', we are not making sense, but we are simply flying numbers. But let's go to something else. You told me something about Kudura. I don't want to open this debate, because Kudura took 2 million for the greenhouses. The question was if they were insured. And if not, why wasn't it? And if anyone's not insured, should we then give him money or not? Because you understand, Mr Colleague, that we have a public compulsory insurance system. Be careful, for Kudura, this is not the case, because the mandatory character in the greenhouse is not the case. That's right! However, this means that they have the option to choose to be insured or not to be insured. They chose not to be insured. So why are they claiming compensation? Do you want me to answer you? The choice they made was based on an economic assessment that the premiums, in their opinion, are relatively expensive and that - that is accurate - greenhouse gases are not damaged. But when they were, they came to ask for them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Because what they do is cost assessment: to pay, to pay the premium or not to pay it, why is it not my interest? They chose that it wouldn't interest them. When the injury occurred, the question of the cover arose. And yet - and I said so - for reasons of leniency and only for support, because it would be right not to pay any sums, we have given the money. Crete has received about 20% of the compensation for ovine and caprine animals. That makes us 6 million euros. These are in time. He took 6 million euros from the crisis distillation. The whole crisis distillation was 20 million euros. He took 10 million euros for the greenhouses. From the total compensation, EUR 125 million for olive oil production, in Crete, will go 30m euros and 2m euros to the region to deal with the torch, to the tacosy. Isn't that active support for Crete? Is that what we call crumbs? And I want to say one last thing. Is your position as a Communist Party that the producer should not pay a premium to the ELGA to cover losses and that all this should be undertaken by the taxpayer? The full cost of EUR 200-250 million or, as you say, EUR 400 million - I do not know how much it will be - from the taxpayer who will pay it and the producer not to incorporate it into his cultivation cost? This is a place where, let me, there is nowhere in the world. Everywhere in the world there are various systems of agricultural insurance, but nowhere in the world there is a system in which we say that the taxpayer undertakes to pay for all the damages that may be suffered by producers. That is for a number of reasons. I don't have to analyze them now, I don't have time. But I am glad to have this debate, because I think it should be seen more widely what the architecture of the agricultural insurance system is. No, so that no work is needed, no improvements need to be made, not that we do not need to open - and we have opened it - a dialogue in the direction of improving this system in order to reduce the insecurity of our producers. But not in the direction of transferring this to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much. The fourth question by number 9226-10-2020 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Elisabeth (Betz) Scooter to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Destroying chestnut production from new fungus' will now be discussed. Here, Mrs. Scouffa, you have two minutes for your prototype. Good evening, good week, good month.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to ask you directly if you are really interested in and in what tangible way to produce chestnuts in our country. I would like to say that chestnut is a dynamic and growing crop. It is an important export product and on a global scale our country has the sixth place in the production of chestnuts. But I will speak today only for Pieria. In Pieria there are more than a thousand acres of chestnuts, either on public land or on private chestnuts. Apart from the problems that have already begun to appear in 2016, the so-called "light chestnut sepsis" was added this year, which is a fungus-induced disease and - take care - is not visible at first sight to the wrist itself. The fruit, that is, outside it is glossy and clean, and when you open the chestnut, you see in the dirt, the melanoma. What was the result of this year's state of affairs and insulting this particular fungus? 80% - I undertake to bring you information, as you have asked a previous question from another colleague - of chestnut production in Pieria is completely destroyed. We are talking, Minister, about entire villages in Pieria, about families with a unique source of income to produce chestnuts. These people saw 80% of their production flying - rightly so - by the dealer. The question, of course, is whether you intend and how to support chestnut production and combat this disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Scouffa. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Mavroudis Voridis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u124	I should like to thank the honourable Member for the question, because this is a classic case where you are actually bringing to our attention something which we are interested in and we must see how we deal with it. I read you the reply from the Service, which is the Directorate-General for Agriculture - Plant Production Protection - Section of Plant Protection, in this respect: "Our service has no information on the extent of the disease in the region of the Pierre Regional Unit and in general, and there has been no information from the relevant Forest Services of the Ministry of the Environment and the RAGs of the regional units in our service". Following your question from the Ministry, from the central office of the Ministry, contacted the DAG of the Regional Unit of Pierre. We were informed that this disease, which was found in 2018 after sampling of the service, had not caused significant losses in production in previous years, contrary to this year's growing season where there are significant losses in regions of regional unity. However, even today, we are in an oral communication between the central agency of the Ministry and the relevant DAG and not even the agencies of the Ministry of the Environment. That is why I thank you, because this highlights the issue and enables us to go through it a little deeper, to see exactly what has happened in the region. The truth is that according to the IAC data for the year 2020 in the Regional Unit of Pierres, seven thousand six acres are cultivated with chestnuts in a total of 89,943,40 acres recorded throughout Greece. According to data from the statistical documentation section, in the Regional Unit of Pierre, production amounts to seven hundred and fifty-one tonnes and total production at country level is twenty-eight thousand, seventy-eight tonnes. As far as the disease is concerned, the disease is the way you described it, these are its symptoms and at the moment there is no possibility to deal with it. There is no medicine or something we can say at this stage. The Directorate-General for Agricultural Research of the Institute for Forest Research states to me: "To date, no effective measures have been found to deal with the disease, as both the causes of the disease and the life cycle of the pathogen remain unknown". You're asking me how we're dealing with the disease problem and what we've already done about it. In view of the reports on a serious problem in the region of Bria, with a level of insult exceeding 60%, by producers - but I stress that the reference is from producers, we have not yet been officially recorded by the Service - benefiting from the "New Agriculture for a New Generation", funded by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and implemented by the American Agricultural School, the Institute for Forest Research, a project entitled "Assessing the extent of the problem in the region of Bria during the 2020 growing season and investigating the primary cause of the disease causing the café sepsis of chestnuts". The results of this preliminary research are at the stage of evaluation and are expected to help investigate the primary cause of the specific disease that concerns scientists. We are therefore, if you want, in the face of a relatively new disease, at least for Greece - I think at European level - and so studies are being carried out to try to give an answer to the production model.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u126	Let me make it quite clear - and I thank you for making this clear - that the facts are true, because by mistake I have said that this is a thousand acres. The acres in Pieria are seven thousand, the tons are over a thousand. So we understand that - I made a rough calculation, Minister - if we are talking about a thousand tonnes at market price from traders EUR 2 to EUR 2.5 per kilo, minus 80%, we are talking about a loss of about 1.5 million. This with a very rough calculation. But, Minister, the main demand of the brown producers in the region - I imagine all of Greece - is precisely that the Ministry should take the same action. In other words, very well this first-class research was carried out in the region of Bria, but this research has the specific extent and the Nearchos Foundation has provided funding. The question is: Will the Greek state, under its umbrella, take the organization, implementation and funding of any part of this research, which should be extended to the other regions of Pierres? Because I would point out to you that in Scotland, when you come back to visit again - for example - people cannot have any other income because of its geomorphology. They only have their produce in chestnuts. Therefore, this scientific research, which has been carried out pilotally, should also be extended to the rest of Pieria, to all of us - I mean the delegation, and much more, the producers and the DAG - be included above all, Minister, in the planning of the Ministry. I just want to tell you this, that we are clearly in the start of the investigation, in the fungus that is causing it, etc. However, this fungus was activated, firstly, due to climate change and prolonged periods of drought. There is therefore another factor in our reflection, what we are going to do about climate change and production in general, namely, the production of chestnuts. Secondly, this fungus was rather activated and because of the presence of the chestnut wedge, which is a problem, Mr Minister, I asked you twice in 2020 and with frustration and honesty you confessed that in 2020, Pieria is not part of the programme for the dismantling of a beneficial insect, which combats the wedge. Therefore, the new fungus and the brown sepsis of chestnut come and add to a large, deep, already existing problem, the chestnut wedge, for which unfortunately the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development for 2020 did not predict anything at all for Pieria. I am sorry to be talking outside this question, but, as you can see, it is a complex problem. In your reply, you mentioned that we are waiting for the results of the Benacio Plant Pathological Institute. We still don't have that stuff. So I started the oral development of my question, Minister, if you really want to act above the problems of chestnut production, and if you have the intention and a timetable for the Ministry to participate in the financing of such an essential scientific research into chestnut rot, but also for the release of useful insects for the treatment of chestnut wedge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Minister, you've got three minutes for your dentistry, even though you've told everything that I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u128	Now for the wasp we will probably talk at another time, but to say differently: Here, Benacio, speaking about the subject we are discussing, says and have an interest: "To deal with the disease caused by this fungus is recommended in the establishment of the trees in areas with mild and cool summers. In the case of offense of branches, removal and destruction by fire of all affected and dried branches. The removal should be made with a portion of healthy sprouts of about fifteen to twenty centimeters long. Collection, removal and destruction of fallen fruits and nuts after the end of the growing season with a view to reducing the sources of primary infections. Adequate and effective treatment, in particular insects or other diseases. Preservation of trees in good nutritional condition by providing balanced fertilisation.’ So, here there are some - let me say - good farming practices proposed by Benacio. But, indeed, I can tell you again, the reason behind this question is that - in order to be the subject of particular attention, attention and attention - this issue. I therefore reserve my time to present you with an integrated action on how to approach it in due course. Things have been done right now, we have, for example, this study. We will see what phase this study is. We'll see when it's done. We will see whether it is enough or we need to broaden it. We will see if bibliographically scientists can bring something into the treatment of this disease and possibly result in specific cultivation practices to be followed by producers to deal with the disease. I think this will lead us to an integrated action to address this problem. It's a new problem. We need to pay more attention to him. And I think the next time I'll be able to tell you more about the actions and concrete steps that the ministry will take.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you both very much. Have a good day to both of you. Let's go to the next question. It is the second with number 89/26-10-2020 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP Thesprotia - the Progressive Alliance Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Privatization of the Port Authority Igoumenitsa (OLEG) S.A. and the terrestrial zone’. Mr. Katsey, good evening. I wish you a good week and a good month. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have invited you today to the National Representation to discuss - in my opinion - a predetermined one from the time of the previous New Democracy Government's term of office on the coexistence of the New Democracy - PASOK, Samara - Venizelos. This specified crime concerns the sale of the port of Igoumenitsa. And not just that, but with a dowry! And the dowry is the whole coastal front of Thesprotia, the land zone. And you know, it's not any port, the port of Igoumenitsa - not because I'm from the area - but it's a port of national importance, with geostrategic significance. And it's a lucrative port. It has 2.2 million gains per year and about 5.2 million cigarettes annually and has many reserves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, Minister, it is a fact that Greek public and Greek taxpayers have spent several hundred million to develop this port, develop infrastructure. But I see the leaks from the Ministry, but also from your executives, from the administration, from the elected, elected, in any case, from the government, etc., to come out and be enthusiastic and say that you are selling out a profitable business and even when? In a time of pandemic where the recession is twice, double, more than 10%, and prices are too low across Europe and around the world are discussing a different role, a different need for the public, but also for the state of business and infrastructure. In such an environment, therefore, it goes on to sell the silversmiths of the Greek people's property. And don't celebrate nine interested buyers found, because I'm catching you up. When he sells out the store as long as, tail makes customers go in and shop. And few are the ones who showed up, Minister. I would therefore ask you to speak directly and to address the people of Europe with specific questions. Really, how long did you expect the port to be sold? What amount would satisfy you at the Ministry? Because you have not made any valuation so that we too can have a comparison measure. Do you have any specific commitments to the new buyer for new investments and a specific timetable? The inspiring people must know. He must know if he has any specific commitments. Thirdly, why has Kavala followed the model of concessions, which the SYRIZA government followed, without a sale of the management, but in Igoumenitsa is choosing to sell the majority package of shares along with the management and dowry area? Why two yards and two weights? What's the point? As regards the land area, Minister: you came to Igoumenitsa last February 2020. You committed yourself to the local society, the institutions and the mayors of the region that in six months you will have solved the question of the performance of the land area throughout the coastal front of the commercial piece of the fillet of the prefecture of Thesprotia in the municipalities concerned. You didn't. We have arrived in November, Minister. You lied to the local society. So tell us if you'll give the pieces of the land zone. What do you have to say to the businessmen involved in the focus, cafeteria, tourism, the sea, access to the beach, to the citizens? That is all you have to answer, that is, what is going to happen with the terrestrial zone. Is it the private person who's going to run the case? Is he going to give them the new prices and make a policy? What is going to end, Minister, with the OLIG workers?Huh? Are you taking care of them? We're waiting for specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Katsey. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Plakkatakis, will answer. Mr. Placiotakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, the strategic choices of each government are judged by their results. From the first moment when the Greek citizens trusted Nea Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the governance of the country, we set as a priority the implementation of our programme for the development of the ports of the country. Within just three months, after taking over the country's governance, we approved the new revised master plan at the port of Piraeus, which includes, among other things, investments over six hundred million euros, despite unacceptable delays for SYRIZA days. We also proceeded through TIADED in the preparation of sustainability assessment studies for the country's ten major regional ports. We then proceeded, through the TIAD at all times, to select consultants so that the international competitions for the selection of investors can be quickly promoted, so that we can best exploit each port separately. International competitive procedures are currently under way so that the development planning for each port can now be implemented separately. What do we achieve with this design? First of all, each port will become a pole of local development with multiple benefits, i.e. investment, jobs, increased trade movement and ensuring social cohesion. In addition, we will have significant benefits at national economy level with an increase in public revenue and at geopolitical level, as international trade will increase through Greece. My dear colleague, you are giving me the opportunity to clarify some of the concepts, because often in this Chamber - and much more often in the past and now - SYRIZA is plundering on this matter. And I can explain: Exploiting the ports in no way means selling. It doesn't mean much more of a sale. To understand this and to understand the last Greek, we are talking about concessions of ports. So, what are we talking about? For rent, ownership remains in the Greek state. So we are talking about rent for a certain period of time, after which the facilities are back, and also about the investments that the private investor will make in the Greek State and, of course, about high consideration. Results of this policy - and here I come to say that you are plundering - are the following: we had in the ports of Piraeus, but also in Thessaloniki, which you and we agreed on the granting of the majority package of shares, many and important benefits for both the local economies and of course for the national economy. So the same model will follow at the port of Igoumenitsa. So I don't understand where the sale is coming from. Selling a majority package of shares we had both at the port of Piraeus and at the port of Thessaloniki, we will also have a majority package at the port of Igoumenitsa. Our strategic choice is justified. And why is he justified? Because nine large domestic and international business groups expressed interest last Friday - today's question is actually timely - for the port of Igoumenitsa. And you know what comes out of this interest? Firstly, our strategic choice and the planning of the government have been correct and, of course, the port of Igoumenitsa as the western gate of our country is of great interest, since it has a huge geopolitical and geostrategic value, lies in the middle of a sea runway with enormous potential in the commercial sector, but also in maritime tourism and the cruise. So, in order to clarify, to know what we are saying, the same model followed by the port of Piraeus and the port of Thessaloniki, the same model, the very same procedure will be followed in the port of Igoumenitsa. I therefore respond - and I state this categorically - that there will be full safeguard for workers and OLIG, at the port of Igoumenitsa, as was done at the port of Piraeus and at the port of Thessaloniki. Not only will no one be fired, but we will create multiple jobs. I now come to your second question regarding the performance of land segments, which are not used as port facilities. One of the first decisions I signed was the concession of the northern coastal front to be used as a bicycle road in the Municipality of Igoumenitsa. Therefore, there was an indirect concession of a land section to the municipality. In addition, the Igoumenitsa Port Authority has already submitted relevant requests for the redefinition of the Aegean and the beach to the relevant property department in order to immediately redefinite the port zone. Since the reappointment of certain parts of the port area, these will obviously come back to the ownership of the Greek State and can, of course, be attributed to the municipality concerned. At the same time, our overall design includes fishing shelters, sayadas and Platarias, as well as the recreational craft shelter in Syvota. Mr Colleague, I want you to know that I am in regular contact and in direct contact with the relevant municipal authorities and we will soon be presenting a comprehensive solution for the benefit of local communities and economies. I want you to know that in this process of exploiting the port in Igoumenitsa we want our local society allies in this direction. And know that the benefits will be multiplier than what is currently in place in Igoumenitsa and the wider region, not only in terms of economic footprints, but also in creating jobs, investments and increasing passenger traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u133	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Katsi, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, local society, the world in Thesprotia is a resurrection. And it's not accidentally a resurrection, because a few months ago, the minister-approved had abolished the University Department of Translation and Interpretation in Igoumenitsa. And today you come in the time of the pandemic, with the two-digit recession, with low world prices, with a discussion about the role of the state in modern times, to sell out a critical national infrastructure - I say it again - profitable, reserved and dowry. You didn't answer anything! All you've done is evade my questions. And not my questions, the questions that the institutional society asks. You celebrated for the nine interested buyers. I've caught up with you, I've been reading, Minister. When one sells out without having put a starting price, without having appreciated it, without saying that we start at least so much, because so much has been spent by the Greek people to build it, queues will be done by buyers. And few of them came to you. At what price will you be satisfied? Will you be satisfied with 10 million, 20 million, 30 million, 200 million, 400 million, 800 million? You know, 400 million out of 20 million and 30 million have a lot of difference. Why don't you give a comparison measure? When we asked you the question, Mr. Plakyotakis, do you know what you answered? You replied to us on 26 February that you were unresponsible, Minister. You replied that "we inform you that the supervisory body for the sustainability study of the ten agencies is the Ministry of Finance" and that you are irresponsible. I'll testify for the Minutes. One of the prisoners. Second prisoner. You said investment. Neutralities! Will the private buyer be committed to specific investments? If so, what are these and with what timetables? Or will it be like the commitments made by SIEMENS to PITSOS, where for days you have left Greece and taken Turkey? Will such commitments be? What if the private buyer's commitments are not met? Will you do the "false" as you have done with "SIEMENS"? And you think you're gonna answer us and throw ash in the eyes of local society? You said about PPA and PLO. You know, when we received the country, except that it was bankrupt and in memorials and no reserve in the funds, we also received commitments from you. It was within the commitments, and PPA and PLF were. However, at least you get the ownership of your policy of selling the port, and I am glad you say that, because so far, they have said that this will not happen, that is not the case, we are going to make use of it. But now we have a pandemic time. I told you before, it's 10% recession, we're out of memorials, no commitment. And why are you following Kavala the law of retreat, since you didn't agree with him and you voted against him as an opposition then? And don't mock us that it won't be a sale, but it'll be a concession for sixty years. This is how privatisation takes place, Minister, this year! Sixty years of public concession to the private sector and just before the expiry of the renewal deadline until the biennial period. What will critical national infrastructure be in that period after sixty years? They will be completely detested and will need so many more millions to rebuild This is the reality. You have not responded either to investment or to the price at which you will be satisfied, but more important than anything, you have not responded to the land area. You didn't tell us which parts would be excluded. You did not tell us whether all the sections that do not take place in port are to be included. You only told us about the bike road and the Dragon. Are you serious? Is that the request? Is that what the mayors tell you in Thesprotia? Is that what they're telling you? And we're not just talking about shelters. It's on the other side, it's right and left from the shelters, both in Syvota and in Plataria and in Sayyada. What about them? What about the businessmen involved in the focus, the fishermen? What will happen, Minister? Is the private guy gonna put them in a zipper? Will it change the prices? Will the parking be changed? Is it going to close any beaches without a private person accessing the sea? Do we have such phenomena? And because I listen politically - and I close, Mr President - the HIAD has disproved you in the press release. Nothing will be excluded. It tells you - and I will testify - "It is recalled that the Greek State has granted the exclusive right to use and operate the lands, buildings and facilities in the land area of the port of Igoumenitsa, the fishing shelter of Sayada, the fishing shelter of Plataria and the recreational craft of Syvota. Why would he put this in the press release, Minister? So you don't dare change the concession contract, Minister. You're gonna give him the whole dowry, the whole land zone, and the T.I.D.'s telling you. But you're irresponsible. You put her all the responsibility in the HICP and you're hiding behind it. And don't tell us that the state, politically, New Democracy, has failed as a businessman. Because if the state has failed as an entrepreneur, I will remind you of its actions for a year of the blue, party-appointed administration in the "OLGS SA", where in just one year it has conducted seven hundred and twenty-five direct assignments of €1.750,000 in the time of the pandemic, opaque, clientele and with ruffles. That's who you are, Minister. With EUR 2.2 million in one year they gave them directly. And can I tell you something? These administrations have devalued public character and good administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u135	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. But there's another reading. If OLIG and the ports are able to spend so much money, it could be through a different framework and strategic plan, through good administration, by rules, from transparency to offer the local economy, help and become a lever for development for the region and make a series of public utility functions. Regenerate the area, the coastal front. Change the lamps, cut the grass, make children's joys, make donations, perform a social role. But you do not have that purpose. You are the only goal you have is to sell as much as in pandemic time. So give answers to the terrestrial zone and exactly what the investor who buys the port has. Not the investor, but the buyer, because the investor isn't because he won't put a franc in his pocket. Everything's ready to take it and cut money from the first day. One by one, once he gets it, he'll make a profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Katsey. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer Mr. Katsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Let's get it all over again, so we can get things straight. First of all, why did I raise the objections to the concession model as the competent maritime director of the New Democracy? Because you have legislated for all the regional ports in the country without sustainability assessment studies, without taking into account the development potential of each port separately. For another is the port of Alexandroupolis, another is the port of Kavala, Igoumenitsa, Volos, Heraklion. And now you come and compare your model. Really, tell me, have you made any use of a port with your own model? No one. And you know why? Because first of all, you have not made any assessment of the viability of any port, you have not taken into account the wider investment interest. On the other hand, in cooperation with the GOI, we studied financially, legally, commercially, commercially based on the development potential of each port separately. Therefore, for the port of Igoumenitsa, of course, our strategic choice is justified, nine very large business groups have shown their interest. This for us at this difficult juncture is a vote of confidence, not for our government, but for the country. Large business groups are interested in investing in the ports of the country. You know what? No investor - and I want you to understand this very well - is going to come to our country or our ports to even get our airports. We want to improve the development potential of each port separately. You don't get it. You have a problem. You can't understand we're talking about concession. You did the same at the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. Do you understand that? Most of the shares were made available to Piraeus and Thessaloniki. If you don't understand, you have a very big problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u139	Kavala?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u140	Kavala. So let's go and answer. Look, it's worth it. We have not ruled out any model of economic utilization: and a majority of shares package and a minority share package and a total concession and a partial concession. You, by law and arbitrary law, have made concessions for all the regional ports in the country. We disagree. And in any case, the Greek people, to understand it very well, trusted the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis in order to implement our government program. If you disagree, it's your problem. We have a different approach. I answered for the terrestrial zone. I am in regular contact and in consultation with the municipal authorities and very soon we will have the best solution - I repeat - for local communities. We also want local development and local allies in such investments. And make sure we find the best possible solution. Furthermore, I want you to know that you are making results without even signing the concession agreement between the Greek State and the private sector. And now you come to tell me: 'How will you ensure investment?' All this will be reflected in the concession contract. Just as they were reflected in the concession contract at the port of Piraeus, this was the case with the concession agreement at the port of Thessaloniki. Quite simply, all this will be reflected in the concession contract. In addition - and to conclude, Mr President - I want you to know that the Ministry of Shipping has both the institutions and the organisation to effectively monitor the private initiative. And to quote one last thing, because it is worth it, Mr President. In 2011, when the Greek State controlled 74% of the Piraeus Port Authority's share capital, a total dividend of EUR 250,000 was paid and entered the state funds of EUR 185,000. In 2019, the total dividends were 13,740,000 and the public received 3.227,000 to 23% of the shares it controls. So it's not just dividends. It is also investment, it is income tax, it is the concession price, it is the VAT, it is the jobs. And you know how much has been collected over the last decade by the Greek State from the port of Piraeus? 1,8 billion euros! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u141	I was asking you about Igoumenitsa, not Piraeus, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too. Have a good time to both of you. Thank you very much. Next is the fourth with number 85/26-10-2020, a top-level question by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The opening of university institutions". Mr. Delia, good evening, good week, good month. You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, although there is a certain change in the data in our question, we do not think that it has lost its topicality. Not at all, I'd say. So according to a government decision from tomorrow and for a month the universities are closing down. That is to say, lifelong learning in them is replaced by so-called tele-telecommunications. Now you're going to tell me: did this ever open up from last spring to close now? Did the universities ever work since last spring, of course, in accordance with the health rules that they must operate? The answer is self-evident, everyone knows it. The answer is 'no'. And the government's responsibilities for this are very serious. Result? They are already added to the Loss List of the previous academic year's additional taught lessons so far, unrealized practices, workshops and clinics. All this, because since the outbreak of the pandemic and so far no identified problem in these universities has been solved, for example, the possibility of access by all - and I stress it - on the telematics platforms, the provision of health measures for lifelong learning, the necessary emergency funding, and so much today to recruit teaching staff and other staff, to equip amphitheatres, workshops, to clean up, yes, to systematically clean up and disinfect university spaces. At the same time, and while there are still untapped spaces and university conference centres on teaching needs, as we have said, these same areas are allocated to businesses for campaigns for advertising, in line with the requirements of entrepreneurship. Of course, we do not want to talk about dorms. We have recently discussed a corresponding question, where the situation is really tragic. So we ask you: What will the government do for universities? How can we use this lockdown - yes, so only can one call it - in this second phase of pandemic? Will the government repeat its practice of the first phase of the pandemic, which it has had without any substantial intervention to ensure that universities operate safely or within this month, in November, does the government intend to see to it that a brave, extraordinary fund is given to the universities of the country to ensure that the necessary measures are properly implemented by the universities in December? Unless you're aiming until summer to keep it that way. What will the government do, in order to recruit directly the permanent teaching staff, particularly permanent, to meet the needs of teaching, so that the measure of the fifty students in each section can also be used to make use of all the spaces? And there are no few of these areas, Minister, you know that very well, which is the property of universities. We are talking about conference centres, but also about other places, both local and private, which can of course be used for university courses and ensure systematic and necessary cleanliness, and, in any case, even for the ordering of hotel and accommodation sites to house the students in need. It is a basic issue of funding right now and we are waiting to hear your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Mr. Digalakis, good evening. Good week and good month! You have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delis, I really wonder why so many unscrupulous and irresponsible complaints I haven't heard. I have heard your position carefully, and I must admit that I have not heard a single number. I will respond to what you said one by one, but I will answer with numbers. I shall begin with something important, from permanent appointments, from permanent teaching staff. In the context of the application of Article 65 of 4610, the relevant PHS Decision was adopted on 16 July, where there were two hundred posts of teachers, members of PCIs, for 2020, which have already been allocated to the institutions. A few days ago, on 30 September, by the Act of the Ministerial Council: ‘Application for recruitment planning for the year 2021’, three hundred and fifty members of the Board of Directors were approved for the year 2021, to be allocated over the next few days to the Foundations. The above decisions approved forty-five other staff posts and a hundred thirty-four administrative staff posts for the years 2020 and 2021. With regard to the recruitment of temporary educational staff, which you mentioned, a total of two hundred eighty-four posts were allocated n.e.i. 407 and school-leaving teachers, a total of 3,864,000 plus 2,612 000 euros. Now, in your question - you did not say it orally, but in the question you have tabled - you were talking a little disgraceful about the grants we first announced and about scholarships to postgraduate and candidate doctors to provide teaching work. Well, Mr. Delis, let me tell you about this, that we have established these scholarships recently with Mr.4737. It is a good practice, followed by all modern universities in Europe and North America. It has the added benefit that within the crisis it strengthens postgraduate students and candidate doctorates. At the same time, I should like to tell you here, if you do not know, that all universities have welcomed the measure and are preparing for its implementation. You've been talking about unadulterated lessons. Mr Delis, let me remind you that in spring our universities - and this is really a great profit for the Greek university - were adapted very quickly to the conditions of the university and gave 96.5% of their lessons through distance methods. So, what unscrupulous lessons are you talking about? You refer to your question that first-year entries cannot be made due to a lack of staff. New Year's Records, Mr. Delia, are made electronically every year. This year, however, for the first time, in collaboration with the Ministry of Digital Governance, the physical presence of students in the secretariats did not need to be completed. There is also emergency funding. Mr President, in order not to consume any more time, the rest of it will be in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know, numbers don't always tell the truth. One has said that the statistic that is the science of numbers is the most scientific way to be able to lie. That's what happens sometimes, not always. This is sometimes the case, although I maliciously deceive the present State Secretary, who - I think - is involved in statistics. I'll answer you with numbers on what you said. With regard to the two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. The verb you used was: “They have been distributed.” The other is the 'allocated', Mr Minister, and the others are 'proclaimed'. They are distributed with great ease various positions here and there. The question is, of course, to be proclaimed and, of course, to be served. And this process - you know - lasts too long, and most probably not even published. Even with these numbers, the two and the three hundred fifty - you know that, of course, but I will tell those who are listening to us - so far - they are approaching about five hundred fifty, as you said - they have retired in 2019 to four hundred seventy-three teachers. In other words, it's just another one. Those who have retired, those who have retired, cover them. Many times, you don't even cover them. In fact, the verb I am using is - I think - too much, since you are not talking about notices. You're talking about sharing positions. However, Minister, I will return to the figures. We don't have a problem with them - you know - we don't. The problems in universities, Mr Minister, unfortunately, remain. And not only do problems remain and become acute, but sometimes they also get explosives in the pandemic. And it is not just that, in essence, these university institutions have not been opened since last March - has it not? - and now they're closing up for November and we're seeing - we expect to hear something about this - but it's also the fact that they got to them, despite the screams of agony students, workers and teachers... Yeah, there's a problem like that. There is such a workload in the secretarial support of universities that do not even precede registration. Even if they are done electronically, some people need to register them in schools, in departments. It's not all done automatically. Man - you know - he's always irreplaceable in any process. Inquiries must be carried out, lessons must be reported. People don't have time because there are too few left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me a small margin of tolerance, Mr President. Let's see the fifty students you said about student teaching in the previous period. How much was that possible? It has only been possible to implement it, and it has remained without reflection, because the government has not made sure that it supports it with staff, with teachers, but also with spaces. Can I give you an example? There are numbers. Here at the University of West Attica at a school of fifty students in the semester, a professor could, of course, cover with his teaching fifty out of fifty. The other hundred lost this lesson for this semester due to a lack of personnel. Isn't that a problem? So, like this, six months are lost and, of course, there are also uneducated lessons. Excuse me, we have no disgraceful approach to the question of scholars. We simply think that university teaching should be carried out by permanent university teachers and not, of course, by using the so-called grants - their recruitment is for a six-month period, that is, do not think that they are forever - from graduates and candidates, whom you intend to reward with even too little wages, in order to cover such things as the huge teaching gaps that exist in the universities, instead of doing so to you, the teachers tell you, the universities and the specialists of the universities. Every time something happens, a bump in relation to the teaching staff will say a good word. However, this is not the case in substance. And it is not being dealt with, Minister, - and I think that those who are listening to us will agree - because when your Government and the previous ones are going to spend - not only yours, you have not only this privilege - money, that is to say, giving money for education, there is a sting and you say that there is no money, with difficulty we find it. But when it's your government to spend money on NATO, there you're blankets. This year, for example, in 2020 4,4 billion euros is giving our country for naval arms expenditure. One hundred and fifty of them would have solved their problems for the universities! And one final question I will ask you - and it is important, Mr President, and I thank you for tolerance - in relation to tele-instruction at universities: will your ministry, Minister, have all students equal access to this tele-instrument? Will your Government make sure that there are all these special spaces, the special knots in the universities with the appropriate equipment on computers, on technical media and on fast internet? As you know, these aren't data for all students. There are also students from people, from poor families trying to get in and attend lessons through phones. You are now aware that this cannot be done on the ground. That is what we are asking you, Minister. Our question, if you will, also has a short-term horizon in relation to tele­vision throughout this period. But, of course, the big question remains: What are you going to do to support living teaching in universities since, apparently, COVID -19 does not intend to leave us so easily? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor for three minutes to answer Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Deli, let's get something straight. Universities haven't been closing since tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u150	By living.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u151	From the outset we have been following the pandemic phenomenon forcefully and we are adapting the way of teaching, the way of education, precisely because the first concern is the safety of students and staff. Therefore, with the current CIA, what is being done is that all the theoretical exercises will be carried out remotely and physically only workshops and clinical exercises of the last year, so that students will not lose their last year if this situation continues for a long time. Now, you talked about statistics and, indeed, my subject matter is about statistics, but here we are not talking about statistics, Mr Delis, and you seem to have a number issue, because four hundred ninety in 2019, but three hundred seventy were retired. It would be good if you mentioned examples, be more specific. You are speaking again vaguely of an alleged lesson in PADA, where teachers and others do not reach. I'd expect to hear which lesson that's this lesson in this section of West Attica University. But I'm going to go on and give you some other numbers I didn't get to say in my prototype. As far as the registrations are concerned, I mentioned them. You said, of course, in your dentistry, that it bears a burden on the secretaries. Everything is done electronically, Mr. Delia. The data went interoperability in the secretaries. The students were identified, because this was the great burden in previous years, their identification. The students didn't have to go with their certificates to the secretariat to be identified. It was done by identifying their mobile phone and they were sent all the codes they need to have access to all university services. With regard to safety, cleanliness, disinfection, etc., we had 2.5 million, a first allocation, for health material at universities, which was specialized and distributed and the specialization of a second amount is imminent. We had 3.5 million in universities for electronic equipment so that they could cope with e-teaching. Since we have referred to the outbreaks, I should like to tell you here that for 2020 we had 28 million appropriations for the operational expenditure of the student restaurants. These are the numbers, Mr. Delia. It's not a statistic to fool people. They're numbers, they're amounts, they're emergency funding given to the universities. I will close, as far as academic scholars are concerned, by saying that they do not substitute permanent teachers in teaching. They are to assist in secondary education and, of course, the main teaching work, the teaching of theory, is carried out by permanent staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Minister. Thank you both very much, and thank you all very much. We move to the last question for today, in the fifth under number 93/26-10-2020, a top-level question for the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion, Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiadis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The struggle for the right of children with special needs in learning". Mr. Loyadis, good evening. Good week and a good month. You have two minutes for your protology on this very interesting subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u153	Good evening and a good month. Yes, it is a humanitarian matter above all, Minister and Minister. The Single Special Professional High School - Heraklion High School is the largest special education unit in Crete and hosts more than a hundred students with specialties. The school for thirteen years has been housed in inappropriate rooms, which have been placed to treat temporarily - I stress the word 'temporary' - for their shelter. The image of the school is tragic and unacceptable, a situation that has, from the outset, made the social groups already vulnerable to marginalisation, not providing equal opportunities for learning and social inclusion, in time - we are stressing it - thirteen years now. Workers at this school offer their work under adverse working conditions, with serious shortages of infrastructure, which hamper the use of human resources for the benefit of pupils. Parents and students are confronted once again with a state of analgesia that is blinded by their problems, forcing them to claim self-evident. The conditions at this school in summary form are as follows: The building is arbitrary, without town permit. In the rains, the unit closes, because all its areas are flooding and muddy, without students being able to learn. The electrical installations are old and there's a risk of electrocution for everyone. Gypsum boards are broken and bits fall. In addition to not reaching rooms, they are very small. In a 3x5 room called "gymnastics", it becomes gymnastics, physiotherapy, treatment, and at the same time the individual hygiene of children. In this room, on the floor, on the floor, children change. Also, the wooden benches that exist are pallets, citizens’ donations, which themselves made benches. There is no heating, just air conditioners, but which are inappropriate for winter, one more now with the crisis of the coronary that windows should be open. Dangerous and inappropriate electrical installations do not withstand electric radiators, the cables are hung externally and have been placed additionally identically, sewed rooms, outside the school area, for its needs. The school is housed, as we have said, entirely in old closed rooms and it is impossible to respect the measures to protect pupils and staff from the pandemic at the same time as many of them belong to high-risk groups. In the same place, in addition to this single special professional high school and high school, the special training workshop is housed with much heavier incidents. So, in the same room, we have three schools, Minister. And you ask, firstly, whether the state will immediately see to it that these school children are relocated and, secondly, whether the government intends to find another property suitable, so that a proper, modern school can be erected in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, too. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Levanie, good evening! Good week! Good month! You have three minutes to answer Mr. Loyadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Loyadis, you raise an issue which is obviously of increased sensitivity and I think that this sensitivity has nothing to do with either party advancements or parties. It is clearly a matter in which the state either speaks as a central government or speaks as a self-government should show the required respect above all - I will not say sensitivity, I will say respect - to the pupils of the special school, their parents and teachers. The situation is pretty much, as you described it. It is a classic application of the term 'neutral of the temporary'. Since 2008, the then prefecture of Heraklion began to find a place to house the special school, the two years became three, three, four and we arrived today, thirteen years later, in another school year in which these problems exist. And because it's not the time to make a memorial or to see what happened, it's important to see what we're doing from now on. There are two axes. There is the axis of local government and what local government should do and there is also the axis of government and what the government should do. So, as far as the first axis of local government is concerned, the Municipality of Heraklion sent us a relevant letter, where he says? It is evidently known that the building problem has located the appropriate area and has found the appropriate plot in the town planning unit Therissos - Delina - Mastabas - Koroni in Heraklion. It is characterised as a shared area, which is very important. It's characterized as a school building area. This is also very important because we are spared an important bureaucracy. There is an additional need to compensate five hundred and fifty square blocks from the plot to complete the property. And the most pleasant thing is that, at the same time, and until the suitability of the space has been completed and approved by the Ministry of Education's Committee, it is preparing its application - a request for funding - for the Antonis Tritsis programme on the 'invitation 7' axis, which is the reuse of municipal buildings. This is very important, therefore, because it seems that the part of self-government is going on and they are indeed events that have taken place in the last year, the year we are in 2020. For our part, we as the Ministry of the Interior have made a series of invitations, which have a focus on education. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Two minutes, I'll need it, Mr. President. I would also say to you that in addition to these invitations I give you, there is also a debate with all the co-legislative ministries, in order to be funded by the Recovery Fund, an important part of the building of school halls and buildings throughout Greece, with the aim of predicting the future need for students, because we know that the children who are born today will go to the nursery in the next two years, compulsory in kindergarten over four, in school in six years, in high school, in twelve years, so we can predict the needs that exist. Thus, there is the "Call 7" of Tritsis to make use of the municipality's building stock. There is the "Call 6" for urban rejuvenation, which is the beneficiary of the Municipality of Heraklion. There is the 'Call 9' that is the maturation of projects, which is important for the studies to mature. There is also the 'Invitation 11' concerning the anti-Semitism shielding of schools. Let me tell you in my denture, since today I am before the House, following my weekend visit to Samos, that there is also the 'Call 10' that concerns the maintenance of open municipal sports spaces for the accessibility of HEIs. So, at the moment, we are at the point where the initial curriculum of the Ministry of Education has been given, and which is very important, because there is a space of eighty-nine square meters for administrative spaces, offices, assistant director, teachers' club, four hundred forty-five square meters for social spaces, sixty-three square meters for auxiliary spaces, two hundred-five square meters for physical education spaces, about nine hundred square meters for teaching rooms, sixty-sixty-six square meters for special spaces and five hundred-sixty square meters for workshops. So we are talking about a total surface of useful spaces of about two thousand five hundred square meters, an area covering the needs of about 30 children, which is the ceiling, if you like, for the next few years. About a hundred children are currently hosted at the special school. Looking at the real estate premeditated, if you want, which has been done by the Ministry of Education, it is important to see that there are now areas of artistic activity, technology spaces, musical education spaces, science laboratories, places that children need for their change - because there is indeed this situation that you mentioned, that is to say, there are not sufficient spaces for their change - sanitary spaces, lifts, AMEELs so that the building is fully accessible, theatrical scene, multipurpose hall and in general all necessary equipment. We therefore look forward with great interest to the proposal in the Antonis Tritsis programme of the Municipality of Heraklion, which the committee will obviously see with due sensitivity. From there on, we are ready to assist the Municipality of Heraklion, where necessary, in order to speed up the process of obtaining the space even further, but also to help to mature the studies by the tendering of the project, so that sooner - obviously some time is needed for the building of a school - the children who are apprentices at the special school have the best possible conditions, especially when we are discussing one of the largest cities in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u156	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr. Logiadis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, for the projects you mentioned, four counties are involved: education, public property, town planning and technical services. At best, it takes three to five years to conduct studies. The problem is today. Parents demand yesterday to take the children to another place, to relocate until the problem is solved. And now I'm going to tell you - and I'm going to testify to it in the Minutes - for Heraklion. The directors of the two schools - as we have said, the schools are two - Mr. Ploumis and Mrs Sakellaris made an application to the Municipality of Heraklion, at the maintenance and subsistence department. So, listen to the request on the subject: "Prevention of external solved rooms" - it is a container, as you can see - where they say: "In response to the above, we are telling you that there are many complaints about the position of solved rooms, as they prevent the smooth access of vehicles carrying students. Even today we had complaints from the parent and guardian association. In order to take any action from our service, we should have written assent from you - from Mrs Sakellaris and Mr Ploumos - Director of the EEAS Heraklion, on the final position to be taken by the solutions.' What does that have to do with anything? How is it possible that the Municipality of Heraklion, technical services, should ask teachers, directors, to do such things? The managers are teachers, they're not technicians. There's nothing to do with it. The answer is a pitiful one. We go further: "Our service will examine the possible removal of the basketball located outside the school complex," i.e. on the street. That's not an answer. They are not honoured by this answer. And all of this, I'll testify to the Minutes. And I continue to say: 'As far as the fitting of a plasterboard for internal separation of sewage rooms is concerned, we do not consent, as the rooms already have the least possible dimensions'. Not even the rooms are enough. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These are the problems and they must be dealt with immediately. It's illegal, it doesn't have building permits, and it only has one exit. If the Civil Protection Secretariat goes there tomorrow morning, the school will shut it down. In addition, as you quite rightly said, we are an earthquake, so a high-risk area. If there's an earthquake, what about it? Recently we had the earthquake in Samos. Children should be happy going to this school, but they face enormous adversities like children, indeed, of a lower god! If, the non-genuine child, a child suffers something, an electrocution, as we said, with the cables hanging, you know, in Crete there is a "kouzulad", a father will take a bulldozer - it is an industrial area over there and has such things, i.e. loaders and bulldozers - and in two hours it will be demolished by this school, which is from container. They're really mad at people! The number of children is constantly growing there, because too many parents want their children to go there, because many times in the previous schools that the children used to take "buling". [[At the point, the end of the speaker's speaking time is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So who'll be responsible if there's an accident? Recently, the owner of a nursing home in a similar case killed himself. Is someone gonna kill herself here? The parents' association wants to call the channels from abroad. There are many foreigners living in Crete who want to make this public, to make it public as much as possible. We also allow money to go back to Europe, because the absorption of programmes is less than 30%. Public education and public health should be given absolute priority. It is therefore a problem of time-consuming and societality. Unfortunately, we see that there is no political will to find a solution, as there is no political will, for example, for the many roads we have in Crete. We torture the kids at this school. Even animal torture is being persecuted. What do we do about these kids? They're changing them to a layer on the floor! By not supporting, Mr. Undersecretary, this school encourages parents to take the children to similar private centers. So you despise public education. One more applies to people with disabilities and special needs. But the parents of these children do not have the opportunity to do so. What has Spain and Italy recently done in the social field? They increase their budget very much. For vocational training, I must stress that there is no care for what these children will do after they leave school. The president of the school’s parents’ and guardians’ club goes back to school, because he has nothing to do with it. So they ask, yesterday and not tomorrow, that they go there immediately until what you described, a new modern school, be built. There are such rooms in the Municipality of Heraklion, but so far they are not doing anything unfortunately. Say there's a big earthquake, a flood, and the school needs to restart. We need to find new rooms tomorrow. That's the point. I personally congratulate and sympathize with the children, parents, relatives and all the educational staff, with the managers, Mrs Sakellaris, Mr Ploumes, Mr Patteropoulos, who exaggerate themselves. I am addressing, Mr Secretary-General, to your humanity above all, in order to solve this problem here and now, today and yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes to answer, although you've said everything in your prototype, if I understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. If you understood from my answer that there is no political will of the government for this school, but also in general for the issue of special education in other cases, I don't know, maybe I didn't explain them well. However, I think I was very clear about the way in which it is financed, but also about self-government. And speaking of self-government, self-government is selfgovernment. She ensures, in accordance with the laws that exist, for her home, for local affairs. The Ministry, regardless of the political origin of the mayor, has always supported and supported local government. But, frankly, I have told you that within a year what had not happened in the past 12 years, that there are funding tools to go ahead and raise the school, that there is a political will between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Interior, to get out of this bad situation that we both agreed to exist. Honestly, I didn't expect to hear it from you. Also, I did not expect to hear in this Chamber talking about suicides. It is extremely sad to hear about the suicide of the owner of the nursing home. But asking for suicides? In any case, there is a political will to resolve this issue, there are tools. We will assist the Municipality of Heraklion in whatever it takes to speed up the process and we are always willing and ready to do what is needed to speed up the process. Unfortunately, the building of two and a half thousand square blocks cannot be planted from one day to the next. If there are other suitable spaces for the next two, three years that can meet the needs can be considered by the Municipality of Heraklion and contact the Department of Secondary Education and the Regional Education Department of Crete. In general, we have a plan to organise the special education sector, as well as the rest of the education on building needs, as I have explained previously. By the way, because you also referred to earthquakes, I would like to tell you that, in the case of Samos, there were problems, among other things, in older schools. Since last Friday, a few hours after the earthquake, along with Mr Hardalia on the government side, we were there. We tried to help as much as we could in the organization in the first hours of workshops. The Ministry of Interior has already adopted two decisions on exceptional financial support for the Municipality of East Samos and the Municipality of Western Samos with a sum of EUR 1 million for each and we are waiting until this evening until tomorrow morning to become a first budget to transfer the money for the first allowances to the beneficiaries after the disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u160	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. I thank both of you and thank you all the time. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been concluded. Do you accept that there is a solution to the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-02-S1-commons.u161	With the consent of the House at 21.01; the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 3 November 2020 at 15.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
