ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In a letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 15 June 2020 that the current questions to be discussed are as follows: The number 772-5-6-2020 and 775-6-2020 topical questions and the question referred under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The question under number 778/5-6-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Justice Mr. Konstantinos Tsiara. The Questions Nos 765/2-2020, 781/5-602 and 787/6-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. The question under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Ioannis Pakisotakis. The question under number 789/5-6-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis. The number 782-5-6-2020 and 794/5-6-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vesiropoulos. The question under number 791/5-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavos. The number 771/5-2020 and 7788/5-6-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of National Defence Mr Alkiviadis Stefani. The question under number 770/5-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. H Question No 1178/49/10-10-2019 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr Geremis Thomas. The question under number 768/4-2020, the question under number 773/5-2020, the question under number 785/5-6-2020, and the question under number 5700/10-4-20, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr. Theodoros Livanos. And finally, the question under number 795-6-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis." Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with the eighth debate under number 772/5-6-2020 a topical question for the second-round question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Emmanuel Syntagaki to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The immediate adoption of measures to protect the income and rights of workers in the tour industry." Also, the second question under number 5357/1-4-2020 will be discussed in the circle of petitions and questions by MP Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Frangidis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In the air, the guides of Greece are on board." They will be discussed at the same time, as they refer to the same subject, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, in application of the provision in paragraph 4 of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you today, precisely because the number of questions is too great, it is twenty-three questions, to try to keep the time and during the question, but above all in your secondaryity. We begin with the second with number 5357/1-4-2020 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Kilkis of the Movement of Change, Mr. Georgios Frangidis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In the air the guides of Greece." Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the Lockdown tours of the labour market and the country, of course, were forced to cease their professional activity and therefore any income that they could have gained was lost. And the March season until June, which is considered a high season visited by tourists in Greece or tours in Greece, does not exist because of the koroni, resulting in the improvement of tour guides for work or income. Tour guides continue, even today, to have no work and tours are unknown when they will begin to happen. Initially, the Government did not provide for the total coverage of about three thousand tour workers. The measures taken only concerned 1% of those working in the tourist offices. It is noted that these work is specific, that it is dependent, paid on wages, depending on employment days and not on monthly wages. Tourists don't belong to a CAR, so they have many employers. You have been sent a number of memoirs and the Change Movement in early April asked a question to support the occupation of tours. You, with a KHS, decided that tour guides would receive the special purpose allowance of EUR 800. In the question we have asked, however, you have not given an answer, such as the responding ministries of finance and tourism. The answer to the question is as follows: What action do you intend to take in order to speed up the computerization of the labels of the licensed tour industry, which we know is doing so by an office in EVKA, which has a few employees, so that it does not go any further and even today that the labels of 2018 and 2019 are not registered? Thus nothing has been paid to guides who are entitled to unemployment benefit during the winter months - the three, that is, neither the extension of the two months that you have given. Minister, with a press release on May 13th, you incorporated them into the FCC's digital insurance environment. However, today the registration has not begun and it will be a long time before it is completed. These people have absolutely no income for their survival, while the obligations run. How do you plan to restore this topic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The floor now has the floor for Mr. Synthrakis, Member of the Greek Communist Party, to develop the eighth under number 772/5-6-2020, a second-round question to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "The immediate adoption of measures to protect the income and rights of workers in the tour industry". Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, for the tour industry, the situation is still extremely difficult, as of course all seasonal workers in general tourism, given that all the sites in the sector were suspended, due to the exceptional measures we all know. Loss of income is total for the period from March to July, season with high tourist traffic, so all the tour operators were unemployed. This situation will continue as a result of the apparent decline in the country's tourism movement over the next period and not just in the near future. Although tour guides have entered two regulations as beneficiaries, first of all, the two-month extension of the unemployment benefit for those who receive the quarterly unemployment allowance in winter and secondly, the EUR 800 special purpose allowance for all the others, finally and on the basis of the information we have, only the special purpose allowance for March - April, that is, on the weekend, entered only last week. Those who have not yet been paid for the winter quarter are the beneficiaries of the allowance by the OAED. So it also means payment of the two-month extension of the unemployment benefit. The result is obvious. Tourists and seasonal workers in the tourism sector are being condemned to poverty, unemployment, and are being called upon to pay for the crisis, while, on the other hand, the financial measures announced by the government support the big capital, with subsidies of over millions for the tourist industry. You asked all these workers how they've been doing all this time? And we ask you, Minister, what measures the government intends to take so that: firstly, the special-purpose compensation for May and June can be extended in good time. Secondly, without further delay, to pay the seasonal unemployment allowance to guiders, to join the OAED's regular unemployment grant on a regular basis without conditions since July and to ensure the insurance capacity, as well as the medical care of all workers and their children. Thirdly, all the payments made to the public sector, banks, water, electricity, telecommunications, stop the auctions and seizures, ordering that all those who work should be stopped for all the above workers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members, because, through the timely questions put to the House and with this unprecedented response from the government - unprecedented, ladies and gentlemen, as the entire Ministerial Council is here and answers the timely questions - we are illustrating the questions put, but at the same time we are strengthening the democratic institutions, because that is precisely the parliamentary procedure and parliamentary control. In the hint on behalf of KINAL, which I believe to be well-meaning, he put it, that the written question has not been answered, I would like to say to you, Mr President, that the Ministry of Labour is being subjected to a storm of written questions from all sides of the House. Officials in the Parliamentary Department are unable to answer questions. As a result, those who do not answer come here, in the form of timely questions, and I am here, Mr Colleague, to reply within the parliamentary procedure. Let me tell you that today, for example, with the sixty-four topical questions I will answer today, I am a champion of the current questions in Parliament in the presence and the answer. It is an honorable thing for me, but also something that shows that we are committed here to parliamentary institutions. On the subject of tours, I come to answer immediately what we have done, what is going on and to answer your question, which has indeed taken a form of positive development in a problem that has been tortured for nineteen years by the world of tours. Nineteen whole years, Mr. Colleague, and you know that, and I'll answer you for that too. So I want to start by saying that since the first day of the health crisis in Greece, at the heart of our government decisions and our political actions, it was the worker. I've said it many times. No one in this Chamber, even if criticism exists, can question that. We have therefore thrown all weapons into battle, whatever powers we have, as long as we have 24 hours. We are writing the laws, nights, we are making the joint ministerial decisions, in the speed and pressure of situations, in order to protect the labour market and strengthen the income of the workers who have been faced with an unprecedented situation. With the introduction of the special clause for maintaining existing jobs, we have prevented a possible large wave of redundancies and this is demonstrated by the 'ERGAN'. At the same time, with the special purpose compensation, apart from strengthening the income of workers whose contract of employment was suspended, we gave the businesses a breath. At the same time, balancedly, we have spread a protection net to many other specific categories of workers, such as builders, forest workers, artists, tourist attendants. One of them was tour guides. In particular, under Joint Ministerial Decision No 16073/287 of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it was laid down that the beneficiaries of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs were appointed to be beneficiaries of the compensation of EUR 800, as long as their contract of employment was suspended, persons exercising the profession of a tour guide and who are liable to pay contributions to the e-ECA of the Constitution Square. I shall refer in particular to that. Of these were those who received and those receiving unemployment benefit, which ended in the first quarter of 2020, and benefited from the two-month extension that we gave them as a government, as foreseen in its seventh article of 23-32020 Act of Legislative Action. Tourists were also excluded from the scope of the financial support measures referred to in Article 8 of the 20-32020, as well as an act of legislative content for freelance professionals and self-employed persons, which also granted EUR 800 financial aid. In accordance with the current legislative framework, which regulates the granting of unemployment benefit to to guides, they are provided for either on the basis of their particular professional category or as ordinary unemployed. In particular, if they maintain the tour operator’s status, they have carried out at least a hundred days of insurance in the industry during the previous calendar year and their individual income from hired services in the previous tax year does not exceed a specific ceiling, they shall receive a special subsidy for two to three months, depending on the number of days of insurance in the industry. If, in the previous calendar year, employment is identified in another specialty, other than that of the guide, in which more days of insurance have been taken than in the specificity of the tour industry, they shall receive the regular unemployment subsidy, provided that the basic conditions of Law 1545/1985 are met. In any case, therefore, the Government has included the tour industry in its exceptional and necessary support measures in order to protect the affected sectors from adverse consequences of the health crisis in the country's economy. All tour guides, whether on a contract of employment, employees, or free workers or unemployed, were paid income support. On this occasion, I would like to inform you that the payment of the special-purpose compensation to these specific categories of workers is being completed for everyone today. There was, Madam President, a short-term delay, especially in these specific categories, because there was and we noticed the phenomenon of double-payments, because they received from two sources EUR 800, and I had to intervene when this matter was identified and it came to me as information and all the necessary cross-checks between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour were carried out to ensure that there were no duplications. That is why there has been a delay in some of the special categories. In my dentistry, I will continue, to thank you for the evolution of the tour profession, and to announce to you the teleconferencing conference that took place with their federation. I personally asked the federation to hold a teleconferencing conference because we solved this nineteen-year-old problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Frangidis now has the floor from the Change Movement for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u9	Minister, I listened with caution, and I sincerely expect your dexterity to see exactly what you are going to say to us. You know very well that tourism is generally going through a lot of hardship, businesses have been closed down too many, others are down and thousands of people are in unemployment. You also know that, in terms of health, with new cases, we don't know where this whole story will lead to the coronary pandemic. In any case, what is certain is that it will not be the next period, i.e. July to October, as we know in previous years. Tourists, although they have a total loss of income, will only receive the special-purpose compensation, which is 800 euros. She still hasn't gotten away with it. In addition, the compensation is entitled to those tour guides which have not been included in the OAED. Those who have received the seasonal allowance of winter will also receive the extension of the OAED allowance by two months, which is about EUR 800. That is right at first sight, as it could not be taken twice as much. However, those who receive the special-purpose compensation also have some additional benefits, such as suspending loan and settlement payments, falling rent and much more. The OAED allowance does not offer similar benefits. Moreover, as I said in my prototype, the beneficiaries of the OAED allowance have not even been paid in the quarterly winter allowance, because they have not yet registered their marks. Obviously there will also be a delay in the two-month extension of unemployment benefit. Tourists, Minister, although they have many employers, have collective labour contracts, they are employees, they pay taxes to the state and insurance contributions to EKKA. They are high-education workers, school graduates that help to shape our country's image abroad. Indeed, due to this importance, the two schools in Corfu and Crete are renovating, while a new school is being set up for guided tours in Rhodes, apart from those in Athens and Thessaloniki. The quality of the services they provide is high and it is important that their role, which must be supported by the State in the name of Greek tourism. The Panhellenic Tours Federation, in a press release on May 31, expressed its anxiety and expressed some requests, which we tabled with reference on June 4th. In particular, they call for the extension of the special purpose allowance, with all the benefits and facilities granted to the other professional sectors. Since the difficult situation in tourism continues and is still unemployed, they are asking for entry into the OAED's regular unemployment subsidy, without conditions, and for insurance and medical care to be ensured by their own and their children, transferring their tax obligations and facilities to payments, keeping health protocols to the workplace and, in particular, to guides every week. Finally, I would like to say, Minister, that the affected sectors and workers in tourism must be supported in a non-discriminatory manner so that they can survive. Supporting work means - you know it very well, better than me - and supporting the economy. So do you intend to meet the requests of the tours? Tourists, although they have many employers, have collective agreements. We must not forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u10	Now Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you referred to your prototype for an unprecedented and unprecedented government response to the answers under parliamentary control. We would ask you not to forge the reality or at least not to tell half the truth, to say the whole thing, because if it is half, then it is the whole lie. Firstly, this is not a short-day delay, it is a delay over a month. You have just given the special purpose allowance last month. Since when should the workers have taken it, and they didn't take it? Secondly, you referred to 'ERGAN'. The figures are particularly revealing and reflect the drastic reduction in recruitment among workers. Two hundred and twenty-five thousand less recruits are recorded this May than last year. April was recorded two hundred and thirty - three thousand less intakes than April last year. They are the worst elements, as recorded over 20 years. So tell the truth, tell the workers the reality. The profession of the tour, as you know, has too many peculiarities because of the indifference of governments over time. They are considered to be employees of many employers, not only in a tourist agency, nor do they have any business, and that is why they have not had any CIS so far. In 2020, however, tours have not been computerized since 2018, i.e. they have not been registered with the electronic system. There is no justification for this delay with the argument that the files are being transferred to another building, so you did not have time to compile them. An EVKA office exists in Athens and it is the only authority to count the tours, an office that operates with a minimum staff, which, of course, despite the valuable efforts it cannot carry out such a large volume of work. The result is that the tours are not shown in the electronic system, so the beneficiaries of the allowance from the OAED have not yet been paid for the winter quarter. Who's responsible for this? The tours? How long will this notorious digitisation be delayed? I don't know, you might make a promise now to your dentistry. The question is not to stay in a promise, because promises in any case have been made by the workers. And when will unemployment benefits be paid? When will the local services of the OAED be served which find it difficult to respond? If you give answers covering the workers yes, these can be convincing. But above all, what happens next with these workers, not only to guides, but also to seasonal workers in the tourism sector, because everything shows that these workers will eventually be left without work. It says the government: 'I seek to return to normality'. However, it is also clear from your prototype and from what the government has said that this normality concerns others, it is not for the workers. This cannot be the case for workers as long as all the recipients of the funds from the Recovery Fund, liquidity in the market, subsidies, coup d'état loans are eventually channelled to the few, the business groups. The victims will again be the workers, the winners are the big businessmen, the shipping and the airlines. You are likely to tell us that this infamous programme - against us an abortion - comes from the 'FYROM', which is a cannabis dowry, with donor power, of course, the people, the workers, to hire and exploit businessmen for free, a programme that guarantees even cheaper labour power, state subsidies to the wage and insurance costs of business groups. So that's the reality. Victims of this policy are tour guides, who are left without state aid, while at the same time you ran the tourist offices, namely employers, to take care of them in the eye and without a second word to join them in these arrangements. I think that the Minister is given the opportunity to give specific answers to the questions we have raised as a Communist Party of Greece, not for the government's unprecedented attitude under parliamentary control. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u13	Mr François, thank you - I will repeat - for your timely question, because you are giving me the opportunity to answer a crucial issue that I would really agree with you that it had to be solved because it was a nineteen-year-old pathogen vis-à-vis a special working group, to that of the tours, which has really offered a lot. Mr Synthraki, I would like to thank you, too, despite the acute criticism you are making. I think she's well-advanced from your point of view. However, as a positive step towards you, Mr Syntagakis, it is a very pleasant fact that you invoke official information, such as those of "ERGANI". And I'll answer directly because I'm not lying. If I lie to what I told you in my prototype, you say that the agency is lying. What I'm recording is the service response and the services are recording reality, Mr. Synchronakis. And the Minister doesn't come here to say arbitrary things or things in the air or things he imagines, come on the basis of the service notes, and what I told you in my theology. So I have to tell you about the unemployment issue. I have first said several times as the Minister responsible that the situation is not idyllic nor have I ever described it as idyllic. The situation is difficult, unprecedented and the injuries on the labour market will exist. But it is not the result of our economic policy, it is the result of a pandemic, an epidemic that has perished the world system. Does anyone doubt that? The question is, in this crucial question that goes through America, China, Russia, the whole world economic system, Italy, Portugal, Spain, what does a government do? And with the tools we have and with the financial possibilities we have, I never said that it was fine on the labour market. On the contrary, when I talk about avoiding a sack of redundancies and invoking 'ERGAN', I do not say that we did not lose positions in tourism, the 'ERGANI' says so. I publish it "ERGANI" every month as I have to do it, and I created it "ERGANI" in 2013. And this comes to light on the side of the labour market that can never be hidden, as on SYRIZA, "ERGAN" was made public and we were criticizing and criticising individual issues. There have always been, in the summer period, increased wage-earning flows in tourism. Those aren't there. But what I am saying is that the positive balance of 'ERGAN', such as the thirty-two thousand per month in May, shows that we had no wave of redundancies. The redundancies in the existing jobs have been withheld. We lost jobs in tourism. Who can hide that? I made it public. Indeed, the figures you say are the result of the 'ERGAN'. What do we do, though? You saw the Prime Minister - I accompanied him to my constituency in the Cyclades, Santorini, on this flag island - who himself made the effort, representing the government and all the Greeks, to send a global message to open up tourism. Efforts are made on all islands, on every island and on every tourist area in the country. They are not the big-time owners and the capital that is preventing employment, Mr Syntagakis. Let us be honest and they suffer. What big-time manager, as you describe him, doesn't want to open up his hotel and hire? He must be a rapist, but everyone is also seeking the profit that is reasonable within the economic cycle, but unfortunately there are not the possibilities. So what did we do? Today, for example, is the start of the 'Labour and Labour', for which you have criticised - your right - which is an unprecedented tool, which is coming to strengthen employment for the first time and not to operate as unemployment benefit. It strengthens workers to a possible reduction in their working hours if and if this is the case and we come to give them an amount which is 60% of the replacement, which at the end of the accounting procedure after the contributions and taxes will make up 83.5% to 100% of the employee's income. This is the reality of maintaining jobs and we now oblige all hotels to hire today and at the same time to suspend their workers. Recruitment and suspension can become a 'bridge' - suspension I mean - but today all the hoteliers in the country, based on the legislation we have passed, need to suspend their employees, because the state comes with the state budget and puts EUR 534 for every worker, plus insurance contributions. In any case, we're not saying things are perfect, Mr. Synchronism...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u14	Nine euros a day!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u15	It's a tough situation. I am now going to the point that we are actually getting into the tour issue. I want to tell you that there has been a step. Not to blame ourselves many times. This step was important because we have made a great effort on all the things you described before about the tours, their counting, the tortureous adventure that has been going through for nineteen years, with the specificity of their profession, where the signals were recorded in an office, Madam President, to the e-FTA of the Constitution Square. It was the only profession they were excluded. I could be here today and have no answer. But today I am pleased to have an answer because we have worked on it. We have identified and identified problems personally, because I have spoken with them. I spoke with Mr Xylouras, the President with teleconferencing, and with Mrs Vlassi, the secretary, also with teleconferencing and with the whole Federation of Tours, and we said that we would resolve this problem. There was information both with e-Efka, with Christos Hallaris, the commander and we managed with the services to be happy today to tell you that we solved the problem. This whole environment was an unpaid area for tour guides, who couldn't enter the U.S.R., they couldn't enter the detailed report of the workers. That was a tortureous pathogen of nineteen years. This is solved forever. Because with what you mentioned as a problem, Mr Francis, now comes the opportunity to enter the East and to enjoy all the positive privileges each worker has - an employee. I therefore inform the House that in the next few days the ministerial decision incorporating all this new environment for the profession of tour guides, where they are also in the normal process, like all other workers, has been made public after nineteen years. This is a positive step. That is why I thank both Members for this timely question, which enabled me to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few communications to this House. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the Members of his Party tabled a legal proposal on 15-6-2020: 'Integration into heavy and unhealthy occupations and unhealthy allowance for hospital staff and workers in public health structures'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco on maritime transport’. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum: "Structure of the Agreement on the headquarters between the Hellenic Republic and the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) on the operation of EASO's operational office in Greece. The Ministers for Economic Affairs, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport and State tabled a draft law on 12-6-2020: "The framework for granting microfinances, financial regulation and other provisions". We are now continuing with the seventh under number 776-6-2020, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Boeotia, the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The course of concern of the EPKA and a dramatic increase in the insured who are awaiting the adoption of their pension". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we are very well aware of the situation and the efforts made by ECHO officials in respect of pensions. However, outstanding pensions and supplementary pensions are growing constantly and had reached the end of May last year, the seventy thousand, the principal and the subsidiary, respectively. The growth trend, which exists, is not reversed and there is no measure until now to be reversed. At the same time, the available reserves of the EBRD appear to have declined dramatically, reduced from 2,85 billion in January 2020 to 1,9 billion in May 2020, while the negative effects on the insurance system are adversely affected, due to fragmentary measures taken at times by the Government, which have led to the deregulation of the labour market, by a reduction of parttime employment, either by the mandatory system of special rotation work or by the reduction of working time, remuneration and insurance contributions. Minister, the number of outstanding pensions is constantly increasing. There has, of course, been no reply to a question raised by the Change Movement, according to which, in addition to the functioning of the stadium of active ECA officials working on it, the pensioners of the ECA, who deal with the issue with a certain amount, may also be reinstated in order to help move the whole process forward so that the pensions can be awarded and the necessary amounts cleared. The Change Movement has also tabled a concrete and costly proposal, as we have repeatedly said, to activate jobs and strengthen employment, which provides for the support of a million workers with a payment of 40% of the wage and non-wage costs for six months, provided that redundancies are not made and therefore it will make a significant contribution - we believe - to safeguard the revenues of the EMRP, which are essential for the viability of the insurance system. Subsequently, Mr Minister, you ask whether you intend to accept the proposal of the Change Movement, both for the employment of former pensioners, with experience in the issue of pensions, without reducing their pensions, and for the activation of jobs and employment. Also, what actions do you intend to take in order to reverse this unfavourable course of the ECA, which relates to the severe shrinking of its reserves and reserves? Has the Ministry of Finance paid the employee's contributions, whose contracts were suspended due to a coronary pandemic, and what is the amount of them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u18	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Brutsi, Minister for Labour, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u19	Mr Mulkiotis, I would also like to thank you, because for the many years I have been in the House, one year as Minister - soon the first year of the government has come to an end - to answer a question that has been tormenting Greek society for decades, not ten, not twenty, thirty or forty years. As long as there is the insurance system of our country and social security in Greece, the question that tortures and hurts workers, when they complete their working life, was and remains, unfortunately, one to this day: why not quickly take retirement. That's it, Madam President. This problem concerns our country over time, and I have also dealt with it as Minister for the years 2012-2014. I never hid reality. It's a fact that doesn't honor us. I now treat it as Minister for a year and I repeat that it is going on. But I would like, Mr Mulkiotis, and thank you once again for the question, to give you the answers, as they come out of our actions and initiatives and the perspective for this issue. I shall therefore repeat without stereotypes my answer, which is time-consuming. There is no solution to the problem with the staff of outstanding pensions. The problem with human resources is not solved. He wants us to make the digital jump. So I am here today, before the House and before you, to tell you that we are just before the big leap. They separate us a few days or weeks from presenting the digital "ATLAS" system, the award of pensions. This digital version of ‘ITLAS’ will not solve the problem on the ground. 40% of the new pensions, which are two major categories, of the primary sector involving farmers, fishermen, farmers and the cause of death, widow's pensions, from now on, can enter the digital 'ATLAS' system and make their application digitalally. I do not want to go any further to say some information - which I will be announcing very soon - before the final presentation, but I would like to say to you that digital pensions are coming out today. However, they are not awarded and are not awarded, for this simple reason, that they must be checked twice and three times for the correctness of the result. All I can tell you is that thankfully, where some weaknesses are detected, they are corrected. It's corrigendumable and we're going directly to publish digital pension. Mr. Mulkiotis, I want to give you some evidence. SYRIZA's missing. We don't have anyone here from SYRIZA to listen. I don't like doing this. It's not right for the Minister to come here to say what happened in the past. I am obliged, however, to tell you that we have received with an official census of outstandings a million and eight thousand outstandings from SYRIZA, when SYRIZA came out and said there was no time. Not pensions. Main, subsidiary, widow's pensions, assumptions, recalculations. This whole spectrum delivered it to us. In fact, I am in the unpleasant position to tell you that, within that number of the pension census, what I was saying at the time, as a Member of the Officer's Vice-President, I had the portfolio verified. I have the evidence today from the eFCA and I see here that in December we found sixteen thousand two hundred and fifty-seven pensions, Mr Kegeroglu, inadmissible. SYRIZA hadn't registered them. He hadn't put them on. And, as we were due, we took them out of the lockers and registered them and increased the influx of applications for retirement. I'll call the number. Sixteen thousand two hundred fifty seven. That doesn't honor us. Secondly, on the basis of the information contained in 'HLIOS', which for many months SYRIZA had ceased its publication, I tell you for example about the award of pensions - the figures can be seen publicly by anyone, but I repeat - that the first quarter of 2019 was awarded seventy thousand ninety-six pensions. The first quarter of 2020 was awarded seventy thousand and twenty-eight pensions. Not that that means we're better. It means we didn't stop the job. These pensions came out in a pandemic environment. Let us not underestimate this situation. Mr Mulkiotis, with regard to the award, we will be judged in September 2019. Then the administration of the e-FTA took over. In September 2019, the administration of e-ECA took over. Therefore, then, the administration of the HRFK received nine thousand seven hundred fifty six awards in September 2019. In February 2020, where we are at the limit of the pandemic principle, we reached the thirteen thousand five hundred six. Increase in deliveries of 38.4%. Again, I will repeat that I do not present an idyllic situation, nor do I solve the problem with the specific human resources process. Because I have exceeded my time, in my denture, I will say some things about the insurance funds and the income of the insurance funds that Mr Mulkiotis has put in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, there is, first of all, no disagreement on our part on the need to digitize the ECA. We have stressed this on several occasions. However, what is in the current situation is that outstanding pension applications are now more than seventy thousand. A hundred and twenty-five thousand was in June 2019. A hundred thousand in the adjunct. They're numbers unrelenting. I won't argue with what you said. Indeed, the outstanding pensions in the seventh of 2019 were a hundred twenty - five thousand. That's how the evidence seems to be. However, there are also data on the distribution of outstanding pensions. I will tell you that in 2018 there were thirty-one thousand applications in 2019, ninety thousand applications and in 2020 they have so far been about twenty thousand. These are the numbers that are growing daily. That is one issue, and that is why we raised the issue of the human resources involved in the distribution and awarding of pensions and it has been retired to make use of the possibility of reintroducing it. They do not lose their pensions and we also grant a certain amount of money to help until this whole process is completed, as well as with the issue of digitisation and the whole electronic process, so that this openness can be settled. Minister, at the hundred and sixty thousand outstanding temporary pensions, how many people get? Thirty-seven thousand. It's a percentage too small, about 23% is enough. What about the others? We have proposed to those who are retired without being retired and have not even received the temporary pension to be paid against, which will then be netted out. We have told you this on several occasions. You haven't adopted it until today. I say it and I recognize it. You have adopted many proposals. Adopt it, if any. It's very important that pensioners without a pension get something. It's too much. That's 75%, Minister. Extremities exist for old age, disability, widowhood. These are numbers which, however, did not stop and do not stop, continue. Although the e-FTA is moving forward, despite its implementation, even though the digital process is coming in. Yeah, that's right. But when will these loose ends be covered? Is there, at the end, any timetable or other procedure envisaged by the Ministry, to say it, to know it, too? Because we've been getting to have pension unfinished since the end of 2016. These are major issues that your ministry has not dealt with. They must be dealt with, because they are left in this way and will never be solved as long as there is a process that has not been digitised and no digitalisation systems for all the other insurance funds have been incorporated. This integration must be completed in order to have a significant and serious effect. Minister, I repeat that in order to meet the financial needs, there has been the disposal of ECA reserves. What's up with that money? Will these be replaced by the Treasury, as foreseen by the law? And when are these to be replaced? Because the reduction of revenues from the CRL has reached 50% and the 2020 CRL deficit is estimated to be about 2.5-3 billion. They're numbers unrelenting. It's situations that are too serious. That is why we demand that you take action and take proposals to facilitate the whole process. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u23	Firstly, I would like to reassure Mr Mulkiotis and our viewers, those who are following the House, especially pensioners, regarding Mr Mulkiotis' timely question, by saying that no one is concerned about his pension. Our insurance system is sustainable. Our insurance system is solid. With our insurance system there is no pension at all. And this is confirmed, Mr Mulkiotis, and by the recent insurance reform we have tabled, which for the first time has been accompanied by a proportionate study. And the proportional study confirms what I am saying. Unfortunately, in all the insurance bills that have been passed so far by Parliament, no insurance bill was deposited historically, accompanied by a proportionate study. That's for the first time. That is why no one should worry. Secondly, what is the reality? The income of our insurance system, Mr. Mulkiotis, has two sources. One is insurance contributions and the other is the state budget. The composition of the total revenue is 41% of the insurance contributions and 53% of the State grant. Note the evidence. That's the revenue composition. So, on the basis of this composition, I would like to assure you that there is no problem. Payment and support from the state budget will be continued unnecessarily, normally. Indeed, the revenue we expected and April and May are not in line with the budgets. It's self-evident. Because we have not even had to increase the flow of wage earned employment in tourism, so we are losing some revenue. That's a reality. What do we do, though? Any loss to the need to cover pension costs will be covered by the State budget. They're not in danger of the insurance funds. It is the state budget that will exceptionally strengthen any needs the insurance system has for the payment of pensions. The next item is the question of temporary pensions. Temporary pensions are paid to all applicants. It's a reality. There is, unfortunately, a large number that does not apply for a temporary pension. On this basis, indeed, there is currently work done in the Ministry of Labour to grant temporary pensions to people who do not apply to receive the planned temporary pension. This is an element that is being processed. The second element is that by digital pension, we are preparing rapid awards through the digital system “ATLAS”. We vote for the award of the OGA separately. At the same time, we are building a single structure in which there was a major problem, the EIB, the Single Fund for Self-employed in Thessaloniki - targeted at Thessaloniki - to cover all of northern Greece. We're digging pending files. We're strengthening the staff who pays pensions. And it is being prepared by the end of July to have the software on parallel pensioning between public and scientific sectors, i.e. lawyer and public, economist and public, doctor and public, which did not get pensions. In these areas of successive pensions, no software pensions were provided. So I say that by the end of July this software will be ready. We believe, Mr Mulkiotis, that with the initiatives that we have taken, we will be able to achieve that at the end of 2021, and 85% of new pensions will be awarded digitally more than all the human resources of the ECA will put its powers to deal with the outstanding pensions that come from the past. At the same time, there are currently exercises in the digital system "ATLAS" whether or not it is possible to make a retrospective search through the digital pension system from the past. Very soon there will be official communications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now moving to the tenth under number 775-6-2020, a topical question for the second question of the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: “Every thirteen thousand outstandings of the so-called third pension since May 2019 and forty-seven thousand unpaid funeral expenses for more than three years.” The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. In February 2020, Minister, there were a hundred and thirty thousand major pensions left. Now that we're talking, there's a hundred hundred and seventy thousand left. The ones you found unregulated may have been added, but one fact is that the IKA mechanism, based on the 2017 and 2018 figures, can issue fewer pensions than those we have as new applications. Therefore, if there is no decongested pools, the electronicisation of insurance life will not be able to help, even when it is not done immediately. Why did you not explain to us when the insurance life of all insured persons is to be fully digitised. One hundred and thirteen thousand, as our question says, are pending the so-called 'three-third' pension in May. Why not pay this amount to the beneficiaries? For a year now, we have had this loose end. In addition, forty - seven thousand unpaid funeral expenses have been accumulated for insured persons who normally submitted their papers. Their families expect these costs that are not coming. Of course, our pressure may have led to the right action on your part and, in fact, the FEK was published yesterday on the electronic application for funeral expenses, it is a good step, but the problem is not going to solve it. For the remaining forty-seven thousand applications say nothing about the FEK yesterday, Minister. So you must tell us how you will proceed with the adoption of decisions concerning outstanding pensions and the so-called 'three-third', but mainly on funeral expenses. And, of course, tell us why you have extended yourself two years to adopt the single benefit regulation. With Article 49, if I remember correctly, by Law 4670 you gave yourself two years of extension. You can't do that. Someone else would have given it three months. Look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u26	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u27	Madam President, in this timely question I have to say very much. And I have to say good because today we have solved a decades' problem for our country. This problem related to the funeral expenses of all the insurance funds in the country. It was a pathogen, a bureaucracy that employed eFKA's human resources, a process that was punishable for him who at the difficult time of his life had to go to the insurance funds to submit invoices and receipts to obtain the amount related to the funeral expenses of the insured deceased. It was a process that unfortunately ended - and I am in the unpleasant position to say this by criticising the past - since 2015, where 35,000 OGA funeral expenses were not paid. The reason why I can't answer that. They have accumulated over the years without having the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour to solve the problem. Mr Kegeroglu, you are currently wronged by the very important point. Because when leaps forward are taken, we must absolutely welcome them all and not see them petty, say that we solve a problem forever. And indeed, Madam President, as I said at the outset, I am pleased to present to the House the FEK which we have been dealing with since yesterday, on the basis of which we are always solving this particular problem. I'll find it by my dentistry, and I'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u28	I have it, Minister. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u29	There's no problem, Mr. Kegeroglu, we'll testify. In any case, it is a very positive development, because from now on we have reached agreement with the offices of ceremonies throughout the country on a teleconference and on the basis of this procedure, no one will need the critical and unpleasant moment in their lives to resort to the insurance funds of the country to submit invoices and various tax data to obtain the rightful remuneration. This will no longer be the case. With an electronic platform, which defines in detail the procedures to be followed, the funeral expenses will be paid automatically. The ceremonies, in cooperation with the one who will make the understanding and have the responsibility for the funeral ceremony, will ensure that the money is paid to IBAN every 15 days by submitting the application to the electronic platform. We are therefore going to solve a problem of decades for the country. This ministerial decision solves a problem which has not honoured us and is another step towards modernising our insurance system for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u30	Me, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. You did not tell us your specific objective of when the outstanding pensions would be zeroed. You did not tell us why people who have applied for a temporary pension are over a year and a half and have not been given them. I have certain particulars and names. Don't say they don't apply. You did not tell us when the hundreds of thirteen thousand outstanding pensions will be paid, as a thirteenth pension, as called by the previous government, pending in May 2019. You told us about what I told you first that yesterday was published, under the pressure, of course, to say, the Vegetablet which I did not renounce. I said it's good where the request is electronically now. But listen. It is about new applications, Minister. You do not abolish manual control of invoices. You do not abolish the obligation to submit invoices, proof of flowers, bread, and I don't know what else. And you do not unify the provision to the insured. We now have a united ECA. We have a modern organization or we want to have a modern organisation, to say it better. So you should take a decision which says that the level of this provision is now unified, if you like small differences, because they have paid different contributions to the various funds. However, this provision is compulsory if man leaves this world, so that his family can pay expenses. We shouldn't be dealing with 5 euros over, 5 euros down. Right now what do we have? We have EUR 759 for the former members of IKA, about EUR 1 000 for the former members of the public and for the so-called'special funds' or 'family funds', a fluctuation and a variation of 1,500 and 2,000 and 2,500. So what would I say? I would say, firstly, that electronic application is a good one. Secondly, I would say that the obligation to submit supporting documents should be abolished. You don't have to. It is the insurance fund's obligation to provide for funeral expenses. So a single exit, with the differentiation, if you like, from the past and which will be paid automatically without this bureaucracy. You don't have to. Why do you involve the funeral offices, ceremonies, etc.Huh? I don't understand that. Are you asking every month to give the pensioner's pension to spend on the grocery store, the manaves and other living expenses? No, it's his right. It is also his right to do so, and indeed the last one exercised by the man who goes to the other world. Uh, no, it can't be modernising. But - at that time you were looking for the papers, I tabled the VET - I did not say that it is not good that the application will be made electronically. But it is about new applications. And, unfortunately, you maintain the bureaucracy of control. Officials will control them again. What about the application coming online and the papers? They'll sit back to check whether it's just one excuse or the other enough for a provision that's their right. I close, because, indeed, we have a lot of questions today, saying that you should proceed directly to the adoption of the single benefit regulation. There can be no further postponement. Since 2016, all funds have been consolidated in the ECA. It's supposed to be Flevaris's electronically integrated. So there's no reason to have any different benefits. So why did you give yourself two years of extension? I hope you're two years Minister, but we don't have to have an extension and a loose end to be. Make the decision within three weeks, I'd say. It doesn't have to be any more. Within three weeks a single list of benefits can come out. And do not level the issue of outstanding pensions, which we have raised with two questions again today. It's not like you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u33	My fellow Member, Mr Kegeroglu, each time his timely question extends it to all material. Just before I answered, Mr. Kegeroglu, for the outstanding pensions. Secondly, sometimes in our personal debates here in the House, you tell me that you forget that you have also been the Minister and, indeed, in the Ministry of Labour and you are first and foremost aware of the problems that existed over time and which have not been solved at the time when you went with me to the Ministry of Labour, because it was impossible to solve everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u34	Don't make provocations...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u35	So today I would ask you and I call on you to read the ministerial decision, which has been tabled to Parliament - and you have tabled it - which solves the problem of decades in the country, because neither controls need - all procedures are automated - and a problem that was tortured and punishing, at a critical moment, a difficult time for everyone, is coming to solve it by electronic means. So it is unfair that Mr Kegeroglu underestimates this because there is no need for checks, because they are made electronically. Nor can I accede to your opinion that data need not be published. What are you telling me right now? That if there is a funeral ceremony, won't there be any tax? But is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u36	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u37	Of course, he'll issue a tax item with the ceremonial office. We're not leaving the ceremonies uncontrollable. They are obliged to issue a tax item.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u38	Is that an I.R.?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u39	They won't submit them to the service. They'll submit it electronically and in there they'll write AMKA, AMBM of the deceased and the one who contributes to pay the ceremony. This is a development which I believe will also benefit the Treasury because it will bring revenue - it was a gray region in the tax environment - but, at the same time, it modernises and abolishes bureaucracy. Be sure, Mr. Kegeroglu, we'll deal with it all. You demand today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u40	Tell us when you'll pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u41	You claim everything to be solved today. But you see, we're solving everything on time, and as we should...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u42	Tell us when you'll pay!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u43	...from the insurance reform, from one and a half million unpaid insurance, from the issues that I tell you today about funeral expenses, from tour guides, from payment of the decisions of the Council of State, from the timetables of the new insurance law that we have to pay and the main pensions retroactively and the subsidiary, their retroactives. This whole grid, which was difficult, is slowly coming to an end and is being sorted out. Step by step we prove that we are here and we solve the problems next to the citizens, the insured and the retired. I also see that the digital pension 'ITLAS' is underestimated, because it was not even unthinkable that this great event could be made for our insurance system. In fact, many of KINAL said it is impossible to do so. Now that it's done, you're coming to weaken it as a fact. So I say to you that the future of our country, the future for today's workers, who will claim pension tomorrow, is just one. And the next generations of Greeks who will be retired will be retired with the digital "ATLAS" system that will come out in a few seconds. Mr Kegeroglu therefore admits that the digital system 'ATLAS' is a reality. I urge you, Mr. Kegeroglu, to come to his official presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the twelfth with the question number 795/5-6-2020 of the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject, “Security of the smooth implementation of the airport's work in Kastelis”. The question by Mr Kegeroglou will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think everyone now knows that the great work of the international airport in Kastelli has come into the final straight line and that the body responsible for its implementation is moving in line with what is agreed in this direction. But I am sorry to see that the Ministry or the public services or, if you like, what we say is a state, instead of facilitating the implementation of this project, whether they are stumbling with wrong choices, or they are not interested in solving problems that arise. And I speak in particular: On the issue of the alienation of owners of expropriated assets, I have to say that legal procedures are not being complied with. Unfortunately, for the part of the road that has been a priority for implementation, there has been no legitimate notification that land will be disintegrated and so too many infrastructures have been destroyed and that there are parts that are not expropriated. The second thing about expropriations to this area of road construction is that it will be done, it says, with self-help, as if it is a urban area, when it is a given that the fields that are staying are totally destroyed as a rural land for the production of products and, of course, have no building coefficient. So, what self-remuneration do those responsible speak of? And I come to the third issue of the legacy. Unfortunately, the situation that has been created and which should have been resolved for six months now when we pointed out the problem - we have also tabled two amendments on this - there is indifference. Due to the regime applicable to the legacy, it is not recognized that partition and their current real owners are recognized, but the original owners who received the legacy when the rural restoration took place on Eleftherios Venizelos. If that's possible! It's a four-series setting. I've submitted it twice and it sends me from Anna to Kaiafa. See, Mr Vorides, Mr Karamanlis and the Minister for the Environment there. If that's possible! Of course, the whole question of expropriations is not going well, there are delays. And the world alienated from its property, which no longer has its productive tools, the rural land, has not taken the money it owns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u46	Me, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u47	Mr Colleague, you realise that the implementation and completion of this project is a bet for our resignation, because I recall that it was a project launched in 2004-2009 during the Karamanlis government. Of course, various steps have been taken then. The previous government has also taken some steps in terms of the compatibility of the project, but unfortunately they have not been completed. And there were some failures, which were also the main reason why Mr Karamanlis and Mrs Westager, the Competition Commissioner, had personally resolved the issue mainly of State aid. And of course we have also found funding through the European Investment Bank. So you realize that for us it is a key priority. I now come to the specific questions you have raised. And, above all, I come to the first question. In both the Ministry's and the political leadership and myself at least no formal complaint - what you are saying in your question - has come about irregularities in the procedure of the forced expropriations referred to at Kastelios airport. And, of course, I would ask you to have something specific, not to have something oral, to put it in mind, to the Ministry's services and, of course, to look into it immediately. Let me remind you of the procedure - because it is important to hear in this Chamber - regarding the forced expropriations, which, of course, is very specific and I think leaves no room for irregularities. Because - you know - those are heavy expressions that are at least written in the question. In particular, as regards the procedure for determining the compensation and the granting of a certificate for the performance of the works, it shall start with the special application made at the Court of Appeal in a single-member composition. A decision is made by the court, where, in principle, the authorization for the temporary occupation is originally granted, and there is, of course, reasonable compensation and, of course, the expulsion of the owner, the lawmaker or the owner of the property. The court, Mr Colleagues, gives the permission, of course, obliges the public in this case of the expropriation fee to deposit it at the Deposits and Loan Fund prior to the occupation - and it is important for the property - a reasonable price for the compensation, which cannot be less than 70% of the objective value of the property in accordance with the relevant system for determining the value or on the basis of the estimated compensation that the property has on the day when the application was made. And of course - you know perhaps much better than I do - the assessment of the cause of this amount of compensation does not bind the judge who has made the decision of provisional or definitive determination and the procedure for that determination falls automatically. Accordingly, any interested party may, as from the day following the declaration of expropriation, initiate proceedings for recognition as a beneficiary in order to receive the corresponding compensation to be imposed by the court. So you realise that this whole procedure is a procedure that is initiated through the courts. It is, of course, a prerequisite for a trial. So what is at least written in the question that there are some public officials who have misled citizens with the validity of signatures, I think it is quite heavy. And if there's nothing specific, I would ask you to improve it or correct it in your dentistry. Because you realize that if there is no specific complaint, no one can examine it. Please, if you have any evidence, provide them to either us or the Ministry's services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u48	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Madam President. First, you're forcing me, Minister, to make a lot of corrections. The first correction concerns when the decision to create this great project was taken. This decision was taken in 2003, thus the government which preceded Mr Karamanlis and the Government of New Democracy. You forget it. You also forget that a decisive step was also taken in 2010-2011 along with the other actions taken by the intermediate governments. But I will not take my time to tell the story and the omissions you are doing by mentioning only SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Shame on you! In addition, everyone knows it in the plain and in Heraklion. But you should bear in mind that when something is written in a question, it also involves the concept of a public complaint. Listen, Minister, I am one of those who, from the start, have been in favour of the creation of the airport. At the same time, I was one of those who pointed out that if the work is not done properly, if the procedures are not followed properly, then the local feeling is caused and those who react to a large development project are growing up for no reason. So I'm saying things aren't right. First of all, a lot of time has been lost for the expropriation process, and people have not seen the color of money that relates to their own property. Time was ahead. Unfortunately, the public has been delayed once again. Secondly, the procedure for self-remuneration is different from the one you mentioned. Totally different. They had an obligation to inform of the alienation from the property and because this has not been done, I have to tell you that too many infrastructures, irrigation networks and others have been destroyed and others that are related not only to the parts that are expropriated in imports - will be compensated - but also to the parts that remain in their ownership. In other words, when the machine, the evacuator came in and cleaned, it would pull out the tires and pipes from the other land, from the rest of the parcel and destroy them. I think this is something very important for poor people who have a piece of field and take half of them and destroys the other half. It is also very important that they have taken more property to some. And public officials - I put it in question! - you see it in the question, they went to their homes and asked them to sign responsible statements that they willingly gave them the above, and that they should not claim compensation for the damage they suffered. And the most important thing about the legs is this. Based on the 1968 forced law, a legacy is not cut. Under forced law, the fragmentation of a legacy is prohibited. It's forbidden! How can I say it? In 2012, with an amendment that I tabled to the House and accepted by the government, the fragmentation began and was legal. So what contracts were made after 2012 that accepted the amendment, which I had tabled to the Ministry of Rural Development, are legal and will be compensated in accordance with the procedure you said. However, what heirs had been filed informally or illegally before 2012 that had no retroactive effect of this amendment, then today's owners can neither be recognised. This comes through the judiciary with which I have spoken, through the lawyers, with the owners but mainly with those who know, namely lawyers and judges. And I say to you that it is more than necessary to amend the four series, which refers to the cases of expropriations. Hey, he's parting the state into a fortune that's forbidden by another law, and he's telling him it's illegal, and I'm not paying it! Understand? It's not the way they told you or based on the newsletter, if you haven't studied it. But if you have studied and supported this, I would say that this side is completely wrong, which applies to all other property other than legumes, other than refugees, that is to say, to say, a few words. I know this very well and I would ask you to look into it immediately and ask the services to propose a solution. I have proposed it, with two amendments I have tabled to Mr Vorides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u51	I can only understand the use of the question in your question that you have a doubt as to whether these people are public officials. So I would say that before you even make a public complaint, even worse, you should consider your sources a little, because I fear that you are incompletely informed about this issue. Because I described a very specific procedure as how compensation is given, a very strict procedure which is also a judicial crisis. So saying here in public that there have been some public officials who have made the signature of citizens, is at least irresponsible if nothing else comes of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u52	I know who they are, but you guys check. You're ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u53	If you have specific names, I'd be happy to testify. If you make such a complaint, you will have to file specific names and the citizens will come and, of course, the services will call it a name and file this complaint. Now, as far as the course of expropriation and compensation is concerned, there is, you will allow me to tell you, a lack of information. Of the twenty-eight sections of the expropriated area up to now, all the necessary measures and the payment of money to eighteen have been completed. So, of course, the money has been credited and you know very well that the majority of the owners have taken the money. And I shall refer very specifically to that, because here we need to speak with concrete information. Of these twenty-eight, therefore, all the necessary steps have been completed in the eighteen. For the twelve of these eighteen, which - note - concern 66.43% of all the expropriated area, compensation has already been paid. In the remaining six sections, which covers the remaining 12.35% of the area, payment is already expected immediately, which means that a total of 78% of the expropriated area has already been deposited and the amount is also to be deposited. Because you said earlier that the world has not seen any money and is waiting for money. That is a total sum, for you know, Mr President, of about 42 million. And to be clear is the remaining ten sections, which relate to a sum of about 13 million. Of which, of course, the five parts of the area to be expropriated by the end of the month will have been completed, i.e. the costs and checks of the reserve tables will have been recognised, and the remaining five will have been completed by early September. This means that, for all property, by the beginning of September, the payment procedures for expenditure will have been completed. From there on, you realise that we are also within a timeframe, as far as compensation is concerned, the whole legal procedure has been followed, and beyond that, if there are any other objections, or if there are any citizens who consider that it has not been followed, there is a specific method that they can follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. We continue with the third with the number 5567/7-4-2020 question of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition Mr.Nectarios Santorini to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Notable delays in the proclamation of the work of the National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System (NIOTH) - Risk of losing the financing of the project". The Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy will answer Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis. Mr. Santorinios has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna need some tolerance. Minister, as you know, the National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System is an important tool that helps to identify the situation in the sea in real time and on a 24-hour basis in a timely manner. With the introduction of this system, our country will be significantly strengthened in the field of maritime protection, in the management of migratory flows, in the armoring of safe navigation and in the effective monitoring of maritime traffic. At the same time, however, it will maximise the effectiveness of measures to protect human life at sea and contribute to combating crime and infraction in the Greek marine space. Thus, although since 2010 the evaluation report on the implementation of the Sagen acquis imposes the need to implement ERASMUS, in the years 2010 to 2014 the PASOK and the New Democracy governments have never done anything to proceed with the project but a feasibility study and an entry to the Internal Security Fund without commitments. Our government since July 2015 has been able to be approved by the national programme of the Internal Security Fund, funding with an initial budget of 60 million, set up a project preparation team with the participation of officials from the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, as well as experts from the country's HEIs. Nowadays, the technical dialogue was conducted which lasted a hundred and seven days and involving seventy companies involved. This issue of technical specifications has been drawn up by the drafting committee, which has been consulted. We reached the point, finally, the maturity of the project reaches this point, so that on 17-8-2018 the preliminary notice would be published, while the latest details of the tender were studied and planned. So we arrived in mid-June 2017, formally ensuring the financing of the project with a financing decision from the Internal Security Fund at the expense of 50 million, while the Greek State’s option was integrated into the national part of the Public Investment Program with an amount of 12 million. So on the substance of the matter, Mr Minister, we have left you a project that is ready to be announced and to proceed with its implementation. The question is why so far nothing has been done at all. And given the narrow margins available for the implementation of the project by the Internal Security Fund, it appears that the project will not be carried out under the Internal Security Fund, that is to say, the project will not be implemented with European funding. And this is where the question arises: are money lost, Minister, for this important project? Because you have often said that you will not lose 1 euro of European funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u56	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that the timely question of my dear colleague has given me both surprise and satisfaction. Satisfaction because this is an emblematic, national and strategic project that will significantly increase the monitoring and competence of the Port Authority. But it is surprising that it is the SYRIZA government that has literally succeeded - because it is a success - not to carry out this project for four and a half years now. There is a lot missing from the text of the timely question. Most of all, however, SYRIZA's apology and apologies are lacking, because it did not go ahead with the implementation of this project even though it also had a specific study but, above all, also funding. But let's start over. For the first time in 2013, after a final study of a joint committee prepared by a Joint Committee of the Port Body and of the OHIM, the appropriateness of this project is recognised. In December 2014, the multiannual programme for Internal Security Fund 2014-2020 is submitted, and then we have the adoption of this programme of budgets of more than EUR 200 million and one of the flagship projects of this programme has been the ESS, the National Integrated Maritime Surveillance System. So every attempt to create the myth is being shot down, that at the initiative of the previous government, SYRIZA, we have ensured this funding. Unfortunately, however, this is where the tragic delays begin. That's where we stayed. That's the reality, and let's not like some. Twenty-one months for SYRIZA to set up the Technical Specification Committee. I repeat, it has been twenty-one months since the first submission of this project. Seeing valuable time lost, the New Democracy warned but in vain. I tabled a question to Mr Kurubli on 17-4-2018. Obviously there was a direct risk of loss of Community funding. At that time the former Minister replied to me that the work in terms of time limits for the absorption of Community funds was marginal. It was six months ago that I had to come back with a timely question then to Mr Kouvelli, who was exhausted in promises of accelerating work. There was a confession and assumption of Mr Kuveli that this project was out of line with funding limits. It is also his command on 5-11-2018 to shrink this project in order to shorten the timetable for its implementation. It has been proposed - and this has been said by the honourable Member - that he has been separated into a gentleman with a right of option of ECU 50 million and a right of option of ECU 12 million. Also characteristic is his reference to the post of the preliminary notice, on the day of the 15th of August of 2018, just before Mr. Kourublis ceases. I ask you, Mr. Colleague: if everything was ready, why have you never published the tender notice? The truth is, nothing was ready. Even worse, when after the elections our government wanted to proceed immediately with the implementation of this project, we discovered that SYRIZA had followed the wrong legislative framework for four and a half years later. It is certain, Mr President, that you were not interested in keeping our country's sea borders. After all, you questioned their existence. You were more interested in the action of the NGOs than in helping the work of the Port Authority. We are now coming to today to see what the current Government of New Democracy has done. Immediately after I took up my duties, the first meeting that took place at the Ministry concerned ERCE to mobilise the facilities of the Ministry. I have requested within one month the preparation of the declaration issue in order to prepare the competitive process and to submit it to the responsible authority of the EGE 2014-2020. It has never been prepared until then and it has not been shown that such a political will has been displayed. On 10 September 2019, the plan for the proclamation of this project was submitted for the first time by the responsible authority. On the basis of the pointless questions from April 2019, and at the request of the responsible authority, the Public Works Council of the General Secretariat of Infrastructure was asked to give an assent to the contract for the development of ERASMUS in accordance with the provisions on procurement. Even this obstacle was overcome in December 2019. We are now coming to February 2020. Following the relevant contact with the GDPP and always in cooperation with the responsible authority, serious doubts arose as to the chosen legislative framework for the conduct of the competitive process, prejudicial to Law 3978/2011 as most appropriate to Law 4412/2016, as ERASH is developing to serve public and state security needs. Thus, in Article 71 of Law 4690/2020 details of the use of Law 3978/2011 by the Port Authority for security procurement were regulated. As part of the project's redesign, we have integrated the technical specifications in order to implement a single and indivisible work of open architecture. The extraordinary committee for the drafting of technical specifications was re-established, which completed the re-checking and updating of the issue. Finally, the competition committee and the appeals and objections committee are set up and we are now ready to publish the tender. We are therefore pleased to announce that the final draft of a declaration based on L.3978/2011 and the necessary legislative initiatives incorporated into L.4690/2020, will be completed within this week. \ At the same time, the implementation of a medium-term armaments programme by the end of 2022 has already been approved for the EUR 50 million funding area. In particular, this programme will enable the supply of thermal cameras, portable thermal cameras, drones, mobile systems, fingerprint identification systems, systems for checking travel documents, large number of high-speed craft patrol vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving quickly towards a very important project for the security of our country. We cannot, however, replace the lost years lost in the SYRIZA government. We can, however, - and that is exactly what we are doing - move along with the right legal procedures, without any other delay, without losing a single euro from Community funding. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, you have the floor to answer the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you told us that it was delivered by your Government that prepared a study, which saw the feasibility. So it was a feasibility study, Minister. It wasn't a study. We need to know what we're talking about here. Another feasibility study, another study with technical specifications, because here you present the white one. You told us that it was included in the multiannual programme. It was just a vague entry to the multiannual programme. Nothing more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no more, no Guaranteed funding is the one we delivered to you. In fact, you indirectly admitted - you did not tell us - that the money for the project was lost, because you said that there would be a medium-term programme with other supplies you mentioned. We expect to see that, too. But in February did you discover that it was the wrong legal framework? From July to February, what did you do exactly? You're telling us it's the wrong context. But with this context all the provisions of the Port Corps from 2016 onwards were made. All that you're cutting ribbons for, with Law 4412, and you're telling us you had to choose another legal framework. Good. Heavy are the technical specifications. So the hard part of the case you had it in your hands. You just had to change the proclamation issues with the new legal framework. Really, can you tell us what document certifying that L.4412 is not capable and has to be done with L.3978? And after you knew all this, why did the Prime Minister in February in the hundred years of the Port Corps promise that next month will the final competition be held? Were the Prime Minister lying to us? We were also lied to by the State Secretary of National Defence, who said that the procedures for ESTAB are speeding up? Were you lying to us that the work will not be lost? This is where you had everything ready. You told us that you changed the committee for the drafting of technical specifications. When, Minister? You didn't tell us when. This was done on 27 May. I will also testify to your decision. Since February 27th of May, you've been running. And how did it happen, Minister? You replaced members not by a draw but by the ones you have appointed. Didn't you like the technical specifications or didn't you like any of the companies that wanted to participate in the competition? You should let us know what's going on with this. So, Minister, what we understand is that the money has been lost and will therefore be committed to the next programme. So these sixty-two million will be lost from the next program. And that's all that's gone, Minister? VTMIS, thirty-five million, seems to be missing, so we count ninety-seven million which are lost for the Port House's programme. So, Minister, instead of talking about the vague 200 million that were only in the registrations and there was no study, you should apologize to us, to the Greek people and to the Port Authority for the projects you are losing, while you had them ready with studies and we expect to see how much more you will lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u61	I'm really surprised, Mr. Colleague. Instead of coming here to apologise for four and a half years of delay, you are asking a misleading question full of disturbing questions about a project that should already be implemented. And be careful: unfortunately, for the country and for the Port House the situation is quite different. You have done twenty-one months since the first submission of this project, to set up the Technical Specification Committee. I analysed you shortly before, when I tabled the relevant questions and the timely question, that the project was essentially outside the Community funding. That is why you have reduced this project. We are now talking about a single, indivisible project that will cover not only the Eastern Aegean but also Crete and the Ionian Sea. There will be no Community money lost. I have already told you that the financial gap has been agreed to cover a number of projects that are over fifty million euros. And, of course, what you are not saying, is that you, your government, retired all the members who had dealt with this project, negotiated with the European Union and guaranteed the funding for the 2014 and 2020 multiannual programme and you are coming here today to tell me why we are stalling. So to understand it, what I have to announce is that in 2021 we will have a contractor. It will not be lost 1 euro from Community funds, and you will have to keep that. The project will normally go ahead, to a very significant extent, to increase the service capacity of the representatives of the Port Authority, which we, you know, care for both the Port House and to increase its operational capacity. This is a Port House, which has been offering a great deal of money for both home and Greek society for over 100 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u62	We now move on to the fifth, with number 791/5-2020, a timely question for the first time in the Greek Parliamentary State - Kyriakos Velopoulos Vasiliourdou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Startification of systemic banks and a loss of the value of the deferred tax". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. In my prototype I shall refer to the company formation 'Hive Down' from a procedural point of view, while in my dentistry the deferred tax and the potential damage to the public. I will simply start with the definition of 'Hive Down', which is simply the transfer of the most valuable and important part of a company to a subsidiary which can then be sold. With Eurobank's "Hive Down" regulation, the original "EUROBANK ERGASIAS S.A." was first broken down into a new "good bank" called "EUROBANK S.A.", a subsidiary of the original and second, to the original "bad bank", but renamed "Eurobank Ergasias Services and Participating Company". The new bank, the 'good', is transferred to all the assets of the original, i.e. deposits, loans, participations in domestic and foreign companies and all the rest. In the "bad" "EUROBANK ERGASIAS S.A.", which continues to be listed on the stock exchange, "red" loans remained and the deferred tax, to which I shall refer in my second language. The state now, through the CFSF, which belongs to the extravagance of foreigners, has invested EUR 5.8 billion in Eurobank, a total of EUR 29 billion in systemic banks plus EUR 11 billion in liquidation - as I will testify later in the Minutes - most of which are considered lost. They were added to the public debt, while after the last capitalisation of 2015 they have lost their control, thus bringing in and acting as regards red loans, commissions, etc. Currently in "EUROBANK" state participation is only 1.4% after its merger with "GRIVALIA" on 23-5-2019, compared to 2.38% that was before, according to data from the financial statements of the Financial Stability Fund for 2018. In 2013 it belonged to the state of 93.55% of the "EUROBANK" and today only 1.4%. As mentioned in the financial statements of the new EUROBANK in the first quarter of 2020, the new bank will remain at 1.4%, as we assume it remains in the existing name. So my questions are as follows: First, is this a legal and moral transformation? How are the rights of the State and its interest in this transaction and the orderly functioning of the market ensured? What is the value of public shares? Secondly, is the parent liable for the subsidiary's work without being paid? I will close here, citing the settlement of issues of the CFS in the micro-credits bill and in Article 28, by which the CFSF will exercise the same rights to the seconded banks of "Hive Down". You seem to have taken into account our question, correcting the mistake. So the case we did before is true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u64	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. In the honourable Member's question about the legality of this company transformation, we say that it is obviously, as it was in accordance with Law 2616/1997 and Law 4601/2019. In addition, it was approved by the Directorate of Anonymous Companies of the Ministry of Development and Investment in compliance with the Greek legal framework after the approval of the European Supervisory Authority, i.e. the Single Supervisory Mechanism of the SSM, had been taken into account. We therefore assure you that legality has been fully followed. The second question concerns the extent to which public rights are safeguarded. Here we would say that they have been fully preserved, because with regard to the rights of the Financial Stability Fund - and therefore of the public - a regulation has already been made - I can assure you that it has been ready, for some time now, just to clarify any ambiguity, that is to say it has been tabled in the micro-credits bill - which we will be discussing this week and in the Special Committee and in the House - to clarify the fact that the fund's rights are guaranteed both in the absorbed holding company and in the establishment, due to the break-up of the banking sector, i.e. in the new bank. There is therefore no doubt that the Financial Stability Fund retains all the rights of the founding law to both entities. Now, with regard to deferred taxation, and that is where account has been taken of the fact that the new credit institution, resulting from the corporate transformation of EURROBANK, is a universal successor of the previous company, namely the company being absorbed and a credit institution. According to tax legislation, the amount of deferred tax is transferred to the new credit institution. So there is no question - I answer another question you have - of checking the parent company through the deferred tax, as the latter, as I said, is being transferred to the subsidiary, namely the new bank. You also have at your disposal the answer of the Financial Stability Fund itself, which says that under the Act's founding law and while respecting the autonomy of credit institutions, you have fully ensured the rights of the sole shareholder, the Greek State, by signing a contract with EUROBANK. Therefore, Mr Papoutsis, these issues have been taken into account and all the legal procedures have been observed and we can assure you that they have been done in time and not only - I would say - because of your quite recent question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister. My question, of course, was whether it was legal and moral to which you referred. It's okay. But you said he was legal, but he's okay. Now, I am going to refer to the issue of deferred tax, which is actually increasing the funds of the zombie banks, which have arisen from the PSI, but not the possibility of lending them, as well as how it is involved in the hive down. In particular, the deferral tax of EURROBANK, the parent bad bank, amounts to EUR 4.8 billion - where I am mistakenly correcting me - while its own funds are EUR 6.6 billion, as I will present in the Minutes. Therefore, with the transformation of hive down, according to the information available, the following will be launched from the public viewpoint: firstly, the parent will remain as a shell, as a kind of bad bank, which maintains red loans, which are for sale and deferred tax. The subsidiary, and, as a good bank, will reasonably gain and pay taxes, unless he gets part of the deferred, so that he doesn't pay. Secondly, the value of the deferred tax is lost, in so far as it is not matched by significant profitable services. Therefore, any public hope is lost to recover part of its investment either from taxes or in case banks issue shares if they have losses. Thirdly, about EUR 40 billion of the Financial Stability Fund has already been lost, and now, as far as we can see, all the EUR 16 billion of the deferred tax will be lost. It is reported that the loss to be registered by systemic banks from sales of red loans, with or without the ‘HRAKLES’ plan, will be around EUR 3 to 4 billion. If there is a fall in loans, then the state will pay the obligations, through the guarantees, while the properties will remain in the banks or their special vehicles, to continue auctioning and speculation. My questions here are as follows: First, how much will the public lose from the transformation of EURROBANK, because of the deferred tax and how much of the other banks, if they follow the same example, which we fear will happen? Is it possible for the State to take control of the parent bad bank, in the event of losses from sales of red loans, through the issue of shares, due to deferred tax? Secondly, if he took over public control of the bad bank, could he solve the problem of red loans, such as the United States in 1933 with the bad public bank? It is a proposal that we have made too many times. There is the precedent of the United States and could be applied in Greece. What is the view here of the Financial Stability Fund and of the lenders who control it, through the surplus fund, on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to clarify a few things which are important in order to understand the issues that we are discussing. The deferred tax is not lost. He's being transferred to the new bank. You have the bank, the so-called ‘holding’, and you have the bank, the newly created, to which the entire amount of deferred tax has been transferred. Also, as regards whether it is legal and moral, there is the possibility of this company transformation, which is also provided for by the law, but also by the European supervisor, and which, as you can see, will be used by the next three banks, who want to join the 'HRAKLE' as well. As I said in my prototype, there is no public damage with this corporate transformation at the moment. Nor is the terminology used by the honourable Member for bad and good bank. It concerns other issues which are not related to it, which is being discussed today. In any case, the rights of the Financial Stability Fund, as I said before, are fully guaranteed, as the rights of the Greek State. That is to say, this is a process that is completely legitimate, which is to make it easier for systemic banks to speed up their access to HARAKEL, so that we can achieve this, which is the top government policy, which is to reduce red loans over the medium term. As you know, Madam President, at the moment, one of the four systemic banks has submitted three applications for the inclusion of securitisations in the HRAKLE, of which two have already been approved. Also, according to the public announcements of the three other systemic banks, they will join the "ERAKLI" within this year. It is a leading and successful policy of the Greek Government, which in less than eleven months managed to plan, negotiate, implement, legislate and launch the HERAKLIS programme, confronting one of the most difficult problems that the Greek banking system and the Greek taxpayer are stirring up. That is to say, we are literally looking at a very short reduction in red loans, so that banks again become the real people, the real liquidity providers in the real economy, that is, the average citizen and small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the second with number 782-6-2020 topical question from the second-cycle MP Iraklios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulaki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The importance of the concession of the New Terrestrial Zone of the Port of Heraklion in the Municipality of Heraklion". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vessiropoulos. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the substance of the question, the timely - as has now been said - is a timely and permanent demand from the local society, which is no more than the granting of a reasonable part of the land area, the port of Heraklion, to the Municipality of Heraklion. By displaying certain features, it is a particular situation, in fact the city of Heraklion is in contact with the port, with particular features and functions, such as the arteries and traffic issues, but also the municipality's ability to bring it together with the resources and know-how that governs it, so that this concession - if it takes place - can be functional, sustainable and naturally for the benefit of the citizens. Some responses were given by the relevant ministries during the previous period, following the reasonable question from our side. They are responses, which have focused on Article 21 of Law 2971/2001, which essentially relate to the issue of concessions, declassifications and redefinitions of the areas of the port's terrestrial zone. So what I want to say in my question is clear, Minister. What is the will of the government, in order to proceed with the process of granting the part of the land area of Heraklion to the Municipality of Heraklion, by satisfying the constant demand, as I said, of the city's society and a long-term request from many decades post-culturally and at the same time - I would say - on this issue? Of course, which are the next steps, which must be taken on the part of the Ministry of Finance, which is largely the body responsible for this matter. Thank you, Madam President. I hope I kept the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too, for actually keeping the time. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, as you may know about the issues of the concession of the land zone, but also the issue raised by your question, there is an existing regulatory framework. In particular, the limit, land use and the plan for the development of land and sea zone is determined by a decision of the port administration and operation body concerned, which, in the present case, is the Port Authority of Heraklion S.A. The Port Authority of Heraklion S.A. sent its decision to amend the land and sea port zone to the competent bodies in order to obtain their agreement. Among these were the Directorate-General for Hydraulic, Port and Building Infrastructure of the General Secretariat for Infrastructure. This service, after having carried out the necessary checks within the framework of its responsibilities, asked the Iraqi Port Authority to complete and re-submit the projects in accordance with its observations. This action took place on 19 December 2019, but to date the requested data have not been re-submitted, with the result that the case is pending. It's not the only unfinishedness there is. From there on, there are further issues that need to be resolved. There are procedures to be completed for the concession of part of the terrestrial zone of Heraklion. A series of agreed opinions from different ministries are required to proceed to the next step. That is what I am going to discuss in detail in my denunciation. There is no intention, for our part, that there should be an impediment to the procedure in question. Our only intention is to observe all the rules, namely to complete the procedures, as provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u75	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, because, from what he has said, he has been crystallised and actually founded on the view that the government's intention is to move forward unintentionally to the decision of the previous SYRIZA government on the availability and concession of this very important section for the citizens themselves, a fixed one if you want a follow-up. There is also the good example of Patras two years ago - if I am not mistaken - that has been completed and granted this complex, particularly short-term procedure, which is needed to grant this reasonable part of the land area of Heraklion to the Municipality of Heraklion. Minister, I understand from what you have said that there are enough - and clearly there are - co-legislative ministries and approval is needed, some of them, of course, have already been given, as for example the Ministry of Rural Development also needs approval for this concession. I think this has gone well, and I think it is with very good results. The critical is this: a road map is required, a will is required, and I repeat that it seems to exist from what you have said. But the most critical of all is, as you rightly said, correcting the topographical footprints that had been preceded so that there could be a proper background, a proper spatial object, so that we can proceed with these decisions, which are needed from now on. Something very important in our view: I should like to inform you, because we are in very close contact with the Municipality of Heraklion - because, as I have said, it is a time-lag - that tomorrow morning at the Ministry of Commerce - Mr Plakliotakis was next to you - there is a meeting of the whole Municipal Authority of Heraklion, the Port Authority of Heraklion, which is jointly addressed to the Ministry of Trade Shipping, for that very reason - because one of the co-legislative ministries is the Ministry of Commerce - and, as Mr Plakkatakis said, it is a procedure that goes unnecessarily. So the correction has already taken place. I would like to inform you that in the hands of the Port Authority of Heraklion there is the rectified topography, this topography. It seems, then, that slowly, one - one of the purposes that has been created is removed. I think this is something that is very important and crucial. I would like to believe that, in your own political direction, you will also push on the services so that they can move forward more quickly in this time-consuming, as I have said, request. In fact, by closing my position - my question - I do not know whether there is the possibility and availability on your part - it would be very critical, Mr Minister - to be present or possibly to meet the Mayor of Heraklion if possible, given that it will be with your colleague, Mr Plakatakis, so that we can run the procedures more quickly, more accurately and effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u77	Mr Colleagues, I have explained in my prototype that there are specific procedures to be completed. These are procedures, involving many ministries and co-responsible services. I have to tell you that since 19 March 2020 the Heraklion Land Office has informed you that as regards the amendment and redefinition of the land and sea zone of Heraklion is in the process of collecting agreed opinions, as provided for in Article 21 of Law 2971/2001. At the same time, there is also the process of redefining the cayalou, setting the old hayalou in the area of the Old Port of Heraklion. In order to proceed with the concession, specific procedures such as the redefinition of the terrestrial and maritime zone, land use and its general development plan, the redefinition of the sanctuary and the definition of the old saint and, at the same time, the collection of the relevant opinions of the appropriate services should be carried out. The completion of these procedures will enable us to see overall the request for the concession of the terrestrial port submitted by the Municipality of Heraklion. There are legal procedures which we can neither pass, nor ignore. Without them, the final decisions cannot be taken to move on to the next step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, too, Minister. Next is the thirteenth, with number 794/5-6-2020, a timely question from the second cycle of the Corfu MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christou Aylonitis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Department of the coast front in the Municipality of Central Corfu". The question will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Madam President. I'm lucky, Mr. Undersecretary, to attend the question and the stigma you had with my colleague, SYRIZA, Mr. Mamulaki. You identify all the problems and all the conditions needed to declassify the land area and the concession. We in Corfu, have since December 2018 completed all these conditions and have published declassification in the Official Journal of the Government. We asked you a question, we debated the debate on October 25 on the concession of the coastal front of Corfu to the central Municipality of Corfu and we are forced to reintroduce this timely question, effectively wasting the right of a major party to table another timely question on another matter. Why am I saying this? I'm telling you, Minister, the seriousness of the issue of the transfer of the coastal front of central Corfu to the municipality. Are you aware of all these years of Corfu, the Corfu City of UNESCO, the Corfu City of Culture, that the municipality does not have the discretion to intervene on the coastal front and that the coastal front is managed by three bodies? I told you next time. So since I told you once again, I would like to complain with this question, because in the private debate we had since the debate on my first time question, you told me that you would see it and tell me about it. It has been eight months and while I told you - and I repeat to hear it from the people of Corfu - that the previous government has drafted a bill for the concession, your answer to my question last time on 25 October, you said to me: 'There are some property problems that we will remove, we will resolve and in any case we will do everything we can to ensure that the relevant legislation is regulated'. So I come with the new topical question and ask you directly: Since we discussed my first time question on 25 October, what exactly administrative steps have you taken? Has the relevant ministries taken the necessary steps and conditions, for example, for maritime and island policy? Has this decision been adopted? Was it published in the Official Journal of the Government? In any case, after you answer me, I would like you to tell me the timetable so that those who are listening to us today, when I go to Corfu, tell them a specific answer, which is targeted at the questions that you have before you and are registered in my current question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I had answered a question with the same content that you had tabled last October. It is the prospect of granting the coastal front and, in particular, parts of the former land area of Corfu to the Municipality of Central Corfu and Diapondin Islands and the Naval Group. There was a request from the Port Authority of Corfu S.A., on the basis of which the relevant procedure was initiated. As I explained to you and then, our intention was to clarify the property regime, for the simple reason that the Greek State cannot grant land, which does not know whether it really belongs to it. In this context, the Land Office of Corfu from 12-12-08-2019 has requested information from the Port Authority of Corfu S.A. for the ownership status and any expropriations carried out within the terrestrial port. This was done with the previous administration, which had been designated by the previous government. A second memorial was followed, i.e. a second document, in which the Corfu Land Office asked Ollee S.A. cedentials and copies of decisions showing how this area has been included in the terrestrial zone of the port. In addition, information on the legality of building and other construction annexes, located within the boundary of the declassified area with the FEK305/2018 of the land area of Corfu, as well as the elements and ministerial decisions that included the Spilia Square in the terrestrial port area. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] All the data on the management operations made by OLAF S.A. were also requested. the past in the declassified area of the port today, including the part located in the moat of the Old Fortress Corfu. Why do they need these? Let us see if they can be recorded as public real estate, so that the necessary concession decision can then be adopted, which will resolve the matter. In both cases the OLAF did not respond, with the result that the whole matter is unresolved. We all realize that the pandemic has worked remnantly all this time. We are waiting for the Port Authority to respond and send the relevant information in order to make progress and move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Aylonite has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. As far as I can see, Mr Secretary, some administrative moves have been made since the whole thing was discussed. The question, however, is this: You are the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Commissioner responsible for these matters, OLAKE and his administration are therefore appointed by you, and not, for example, when I announced yesterday to the media in Corfu that this timely question will be discussed on Saturday, there will be contact by the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, to announce with the Member of your party that the decision was signed by the Minister for the declassification of the land area. I would like to say that what is being asked is not communication policies, but the effectiveness of your actions. The effectiveness of your actions is reflected when you bring the bill here to be passed by the Greek Parliament. That is the purpose. It's been eight to nine months. How important is it - and I speak in the capacity of the lawyer - to clarify the property status of Spilia or the moat of the Old Fortress? These are clear, common things, belonging to either the municipality or the public. Let us contact the Mayor of Central Corfu, who is also politically committed to you and Mr. Gervopoulos, who is the director of the Port Authority to consult and download a bill to end this story. I would like to tell you that there is a very important issue, which has to do with the operation of Corfu's Naval Sports Group, one of the most important and historic unions in Greece. You realise that it has been decommissioned, that it has serious economic problems and that it depends on the fact that this draft law on the concession of the coastal front to the municipality is adopted, that is to say, that they are able to exploit the facilities economically, in the best way possible and have an income that is predictable, in particular, that this particular revenue is provided within their budget, to know how to operate. In short, to show you the seriousness of this issue, it is a matter of life and death for this club, this particular legislative initiative, which I seek twice. In addition, with the body of problems that exist throughout the coastal front, the Municipality of Central Corfu should be given the opportunity to policy, so that the unresolved problems can be resolved for many years. So, in that sense, I would ask you very much, if you have your kindness, in your dentistry, to tell me what timetable you see, how much time you will legislate on this request of thecorn people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr Alonite. The floor has been raised by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos, for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there is a certain history of actions in this case. A large part of the hayalus from the Cafe Gyali area, the Arseni Street and the Windmill was declassified from the land zone of the port. This declassification means that this part as a sanctuary remains common, having as its main destination the free and undivided access of citizens to the sea. Moreover, this particular space of the Agialos has been self-evidently granted for simple use in the municipality of Corfu since its declassification in accordance with Article 13 of Law 2971/2001. With regard to the issue of the concession of the remaining declassified parts of the terrestrial zone, such as in the area of Spilia Square, I repeat once again that the issue of concession is confronted with the fact that the ownership status of the specific areas of the coastal front has not been clarified, in order for them to be registered as public properties and then to follow the procedures provided for in a concession decision. The Treasury, through its services, will not stand in the way of this. You need to know that the last thing I'd like to do would be to encapsulate the debate on what your government did. But when it is repeated by the party of the Anti-Population Officer's that the SYRIZA government had it all set up, but it was supposedly unprecedented, I think you are underestimating the intelligence of your fellow citizens. Let me remind you that the Ministers of Government SYRIZA and in particular Mr Kourublis and Mr Kouvelis spoke two years before the 2019 elections on the forthcoming concession of the coastal front to the words of course. Why did this concession not proceed? Because he's found himself in front of the objective problem we're in. Because the property status of the area had not been clarified. Finally, with regard to the issue of the premises of the maritime group and in order to satisfy its request, in accordance with Article 14a of Law 2971/2001 on the legalisation of arbitrary structures, I have to inform you that the Land Office has already requested the presentation of the required data, but this has not been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u86	Thank you too, Minister. So NOK can do his paperwork. Let's go to the third with number 765/2-6-2020 an up-to-date question from the first Member of the Eotolokarnania Parliamentary of the Movement of Change Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject of "Evolutions in the construction of the Ambros Odos". Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u87	Minister, Ambrosia Street is a work of breath for western Greece, and we all know that. It is a forty-kilometre motorway, which will provide security for travel and will create standards of development and even tourist development, in the wider region of Western Greece, such as in Ietoloakarnani, in Arta, in Preveza, in Lefkada, in Igoumenitsa, as well as in Ionian Greece. However, Minister, the construction of this project has evolved into a bridge of Arta. I would remind you that this project has become a nightmare without the end of Itolo-Carnania, which continues to pay high blood tax from lethal roads. Where? On Amphichia Vonicas Street, the old national. It's ruthless. Thirty dead for a decade without actually sweating anyone's ears. Mr Minister, I would remind you that this project, the Abracian bypass, has, as has been said, been divided into four sections, four contractors. First Section Aktio - Palaiabela, second Palaiabela - Drymos, third Drymos - Loutraki, fourth Loutraki to the connection of the Ionian Road. So today, after a decade of the start of this project, only the first, sixteen kilometres of the first contractor that connects Aktio to Vonica has been delivered and I would remind you that this is the supplementary contract. The rest of the pieces - and I would be rather surprised to say - and projects from the previous leadership did not go any further. The Ministry chose to integrate them into the brooming, but never finished. And you, Minister, decided at the beginning of the year to cancel the competition. Judicial disputes were followed, with recent developments in the S.H.E.'s decision, which effectively annulled the Ministry's decision to cancel the tender. I would also like a very clear answer here. Minister, the Ministry's mistakes in the Ambrosia project are continuing, so I ask you for honest answers. Remind me that the partition of the project was chosen in four sections. Then the contractor was chosen - a vacuum cleaner instead of the additional contracts. Finally, you chose to cancel the competition. So I ask you this. Didn't you know they'd be following legal proceedings and, of course, new delays? Today I ask you: How will the work proceed? When will the Ambros Street be completed? What are we going to do to avoid losing funding for the ESRB that is secured by 2023? The patience of all the inhabitants of Itolokarnania and western Greece, Minister, has been exhausted. Give it a break now. Go ahead with the process, get the bulldozers into the project and finally get it completed. Finally, to select a contractor, to stop the "slap" and the project failures. I'm waiting for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u89	Mr Constantopoulos, Mr Colleague, I think you are fully aware of what you have said, that the Government's interest in this project has shown in practice. And you see that we are sure of the actions we take, and that is why we are not avoiding dialogue. I am pleased that you too recognise that we have tabled several answers to written questions that you and other colleagues have asked. We in the New Democracy Government are not prepared to repeat the same mistakes that SYRIZA has made and which have actually condemned this work. They were mistakes systemically, for example, the 2018 contractor - vacuum cleaner, which - listen, listen! - he had a budget of 150 million, when all the work, a project signed by the PASOK government and Mr Reppas in 2010, with the discount - in theory - would cost 177 million. This contractor - a broom - did not have a flat-rate price - a very basic error - nor was it designed with due seriousness, so that the 'guys' of lawyers, i.e. appeals everywhere. I will tell you what we have found and what we have done to make it clear why we have taken the action we have taken. Last July we found the project at a speed, with the consortium that had taken over the project in 2018, which had a 30-month implementation schedule. Since then, legal disputes have started, since 2018, with the known appeals of a particular company. You see, there are companies specialising not in the production of projects, but in the legal disputes. This is a reality which we must deal with both with and its review. In the light of this, then, we are taking a major decision in January. Why? For we see that twenty-four months have passed without actually having carried out the 30-month work - this is the timeframe, I remind you - and we have decided to cancel the tender. At the same time, we are moving towards the redefinition of the timetable, as well as to include a new technical item in the budget, which is absolutely essential. Nevertheless, efforts to block the project continued both with the appeals to an Independent Judicial Appeals Authority and to the S.A.. And, as you said, S.H.E.'s decision came up. Last week and according to the decision, he tells us to do this: Return to the original competition in 2018, address those who participated in the competition until 31-12-2019 and ask them to renew their offers and submit renewed guarantee letters. So because we will not allow this work to be done, as you quite rightly said, a modern bridge of Arta, we will move very rapidly. In my dentistry, you will allow me, Mr Constantopoulos, to continue and tell you what the procedure will be, so that the work can finally begin, because, as you quite rightly said, this partition has created a problem. Fifteen of the forty - five kilometers have been built and it has already cost this project, fifteen kilometers, 6.1 million euros per kilometre, or waste of the Greek taxpayer's money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u91	Minister, today you are listened to the whole of Western Greece, because the concerns of MP Dimitris Konstantopoulou are also concerns of all the citizens of western Greece, because the local communities have been afflicted, they are tired of words and promises. That's why they're waiting for clear answers today. Minister, at the beginning of the year you said that the project would be re-launched in the first quarter of 2020, so that it would end with a flat-rate section. At your own point in question, you promised that priority would be given to the circumvention of Amphilogy, i.e. the fourth contractor. Let me remind you, Minister, that bypassing amphilipia, that is, the fourth contractor, KNAUF - Loutros, is the most dangerous point. It has, however, moved on to tell you, by 70%. However, this section cannot be completed and delivered to the citizens. There have been judicial involvements, which should of course have been anticipated both by your predecessors and today by you. So speak to us with a specific timetable and a plan for the completion of the project. That's what citizens expect. What about the auction? How will the project proceed? Minister, court disputes are not of interest to the citizens. Besides, failures are due to political and wrong tactics. I would remind you that other honourable Members have brought this issue to the House with questions and topical questions, like Mr Kavvada, Member of the Lefkada. And from the previous leadership of the Ministry, in 2015-2019, we had received answers, but they did not ultimately give a solution to the problem. Nowadays, then, it remains a mixture of bad government manipulations. And these bad governmental manipulations belong from 2014 until today. It started in 2010. It had to be completed in 2013. We are in 2020 and work is not being done. The conclusions of yours. Ten years 15 km in circulation and forty-three in re-publishment. In fact, I would say, political failure over time, 2014-2020. No one's infallible, though. No one can hide. The work, like you said, was saluted to four contractors, of course, without expropriations, without archaeological excavations, without a plan, without a timeline. What for? Nobody knows. And it is a question of all the citizens of western Greece. Today, the project has been frozen and the burden is called upon for citizens, local communities in western Greece, as I said, and for all Greek taxpayers, who pay for it with blood, i.e. with a blood tax. With respect to all those who lost their lives, I have one word to say: Shame! Greece cannot withstand other public works overpriced, Minister, and ultimately half-finished, projects that are designed to serve the public interest and ultimately undermine the common interest and are undermined through delays, projects that are not completed and are at the expense of safe motorways, which we all want, in order to progress properly in our tourism development and everyday life, as we have said. Minister, we cannot talk about development and citizens use inappropriate roads because of the Ministry's bureaucracy and failures. To talk about development and road networks safely and not complete forty-three kilometers. To talk about tourism, which is our heavy industry and our attractive proposal on the world tourism market, and not to have accompanying projects, with safe motorways. Closed up, I have one word to say. It is up to you, Minister, to give a solution. Western Greece and the citizens of western Greece, but also Greek taxpayers, need the completion of this project. Give a solution your predecessors couldn't give. The cubit is high. The bet's open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u93	I understand the concern the citizens of your region and of Western Greece have about this project. But there's no magic wand. And when we make partition of a project, Aktio - Ambrosia, Patras - Tower, unfortunately, as a state, as a Greek Republic, we pay this price. You have not said anything else, which we must say, to show how much we have to run. If this work does not end by 2023, we risk losing the money. In other words, we must finance it by 2025. And if it is not over by 2025, we are at risk of the so-called 'financial correction'. In other words, in order to understand this, those who are listening to us should come to the European Commission and ask for all its own money back. The fragmentation - and I would remind you that in Patras - tower was carried out in 2015, while it was a single project - is something that the European Commission, especially DG REGIO, is disliked, and that is why it has repeatedly come and called for us as the Hellenic Republic not to carry out such procedures. We did something that was perfectly normal, because we were deadlocked. We said we're canceling the contest and we're reopening it. Why did we do that? For for twenty-four months almost nothing had happened on this road. We had no choice. And because, as I explained to you, in 2018 this work was not flat-rate and it was done in such a way that it opened the way for the appeals, now we cannot go back and say that "we cancel the tender and go back from the beginning", because it will reach 2023 and this work will not have been done. We will therefore proceed immediately with the procedures we have. We will call on you, as I explained to you the two - three companies that have remained and had participated in the last competition in 2019, to make the process quickly for the renewal of the guarantees and bring the documents, as the law stipulates, so that we finally enter a process to start and finish this work. You see, parental sins train children.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u94	What timetable will it have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u95	Timetable we cannot tell you. We need to run the project to end in 2023. Because our woes and alas if it does not end in 2023. I'm closing, Mr. President. You will allow me to say something else and make an appeal to the technical world of the country. Let appeals be stopped, which are not in favour of the public interest. Mercy! I understand we live in rule of law. I understand that, many times, technical companies and contractors enter a process with legal disputes, but there has to be a perfect one in this place. Unfortunately, Mr. 4412/2016, as it was voted, and as it was three years ago, instead of compiling the shrine of the appeals, did exactly the opposite. And we are now in the unpleasant position of coming to review Law 4412/2016 in one or two legislations and not as did the previous government with three hundred and twenty-five - if I remember - amendments and end. Therefore, the commitment we can give - but that is why we will all need to put some water on our wine - is to leave the conflicts and run, so that the rest of the kilometres that are left to go by the end of 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, too, Minister. Good for you both. So, we have a rhythm, because we have fifteen more questions. We move to the fifth under number 787/5-6-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Privatization of the External Water System of the European Union". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, last time we talked about the Thessaloniki subway. Now we're talking about privatization of the HEADAP of Athens. Both have a common denominator. It seems to be matters that the Prime Minister personally manages. So, I'm talking to you, but it's clear and the decisions are made by the Prime Minister. So what did Mr. Mitsotakis decide? He decided to initiate procedures for an international competition for the management, maintenance and operation of the Athens External Aquarium System. What does it involve? It includes Evnos, Mornos, Marathonas, Lake Alice, Parnitha and Boeotian Kampos drilling, four hundred kilometres of aqueduct and pumping stations. It is impressive that, within the objectives, the bottling, the sale of unrefined water, which will be collected along the outer water system. All of this, while the renewal of the contract with the EEAS and the Government, the Greek State, as regards the exclusive right to operate and maintain the EEAS, is pending. Of course, the responsibilities for this are borne by SYRIZA, as they have been pending since 2018. And you are currently using this loose end to actually make the privatisation of water, which the Council of State in 2014 considered illegal. He said that it cannot be within economic negotiation, it is out of negotiation, as well as infrastructure related to its management. I ask you very simply. How do you document - beyond the illegality of privatising a public asset - the reduction in water prices for private individuals, for citizens, through this process, as all international experience, from Berlin to Paris and everywhere, speaks of a rapid increase in costs for citizens, a large reduction in water quality, but also of investment in infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will respond, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u99	Your question, Mr Colleague, I think it can only be answered by one sentence. Water was, is and will be socially good and public good. But be careful. It's good, not service. And I'll come back and explain what I mean. It is something that is clear, it is constitutionally guaranteed and it also results from a reality. Today the Greek state holds 60% of EEAS, but it is constitutionally guaranteed that this percentage will not fall below 51%. I understand the need for many - not yours, but the Qualified Opposition - to strike the Government on allegedly privatization. However, this does not mean that some answers should not be given. And let me say this. If anyone has to blame someone for allegedly privatization or for having opened up - but we will shut it down - on this ferry door, you will allow me to say that this government was the proud government of the 'first time left'. And I'm explaining. Your former comrades in SYRIZA should accuse the New Democracy. Because SYRIZA was the one who put HICP in the superstition. Not even the Samara government put it, nor the previous Memorandum Governments. So the property was promised for ninety years and it was SYRIZA who signed the deal with the creditors and enclosed the next governments. Now let's see what's really going on. The whole matter is about the maintenance of the water supply network. Mr Arseni, it concerns the external water supply network, which is not within the competence of the EEAS, but within the competence of the public. The public has an obligation to maintain what we call the external water network. So far, from 1999 to 2020, HSDAP S.A., the largest shareholder, Mr Arsenis, the Greek State, but is a listed company on the Athens Stock Exchange, received the sum of EUR 26.5 million per year for maintenance projects. Our view is this. Now that, as you quite rightly said, the concession agreement in 2020, we are considering using a PPP, namely a public-private partnership, to support the external water supply network, which the State had granted to do by giving EUR 26.5 million a year, so twenty years for EUR 26.5 million, without there being, if you like, absolute transparency in this process. So what are we going to do? We are going to do what is done in all the countries of Europe. We don't find out about the powder. For a project we come and use financial instruments that the European Commission gives us. So to make it clear, and in my dentistry, I think I'll have the comfort of expanding. Water - and I shall end, Mr President - is a public good. But to reach our tap, we need networks, infrastructure, artificial lakes. These, Mr Arsenis, are services. And throughout Europe these services can be done in many ways and one of them is the partnership, the so-called PPPs. So be clear what the good is, which is water, which is public, which remains public. In fact, in this way we ensure that the water does not become too expensive, because prices will be more competitive in keeping it, and in this way we will be sure that we have quality water for Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arsenis, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in 1999, when the EMS is relocated, under the responsibility of the government at the time, we have the creation of the EMSDDA for the purpose of setting up installations, all this exceptional water system, always remain in public control. Your main argument is that the PPPs are not privatization, they are another way of managing, otherwise we will find money for the investment. The PPPs stem from Mrs Thatcher's policy, it's her idea, are the Public Private Partnerships. And Mrs Thatcher formally says that 'This is how we will reduce the state'. We are, in fact, giving a private person a job and manage it, saying that he will do the investment. However, the private investor removes multiple future revenues from the State and from the citizens. It is taxation after, for the entire duration of the project, directly from private individuals for the use of this project. Experience anywhere has been applied - particularly in the water part - is too negative. In Berlin, which in 2013 re-published water - it had granted PPPs and, indeed, with a minority package to private individuals - we had an increase in the price of water, mass redundancies, few investments, reduction in investment. There was a similar situation in Paris. He had an increase in the water price of 256%. Again it is 'SUEZ' and 'VEOLIA', that is, these companies that seem to win the competition. In other areas we have had criminal effects from reducing water quality, such as Sydney and Canada, where we have even lost human lives. There is no example where a PPP government gave the management of the icing network, or the retail administration, until the water reaches the consumer, and we have had good results. All we see is a bunch of private individuals through this invention of Ms. Thatcher, the PPP. It is something where it has been implemented, which has clearly worked against the public interest. At the moment, your proposal is against the decisions of the Council of State, which he had said - I recall - that water is off-transaction, that it is forbidden to divest, rent, transfer and use, or anything that constitutes an intellectual right to real estate and fixed assets. That is precisely what the PPP is forbidden by the Council of State. Read word to word the decision. I call on you, indeed, to stop this process. We consider it to be a huge national issue. We know that the Prime Minister is personally handling this, who has made the decisions to move this process forward. We believe that, in fact, it is a reproach for this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u103	A dream, Mr. Arsenis, do you know what it is? Getting a company that's private. With everything you say, I think we have a problem of understanding. U.S.S.S.A. has been a listed company since 1999. That's a reality. We can't turn her back. What we have guaranteed as the Hellenic Republic is that we will not sell more than 51%. I told you that Mr. Tsipras''s proud government', along with your Chief, Mr. Varoufakis, with their very good actions in the first half of the year with their experiments very 'problems', succeeded and put all the TEKO - and EYDAP - in the excess, binding the property of the Greek State for ninety years. That's a reality, which is good to go back and say it's not coming back. Once again, it has nothing to do with what you have read, the legal text, what we are doing. What do we actually do? The Greek state, i.e. the Greek taxpayers, gave 26.5 million a year to EYDAP to make the maintenance of the external water network as unscheduled. Because - as you quite rightly said - this work had to be done by the Greek Government, i.e. the Greek State. We granted this right as a Greek state to HYDAP S.A. What do we do now? We take it back and say no will be done by HICP S.A. the maintenance of the external water supply network outside Attica. The Greek state will do it. Now if the Greek state decides to do it as a public project or decides to do it as a PPP or does it with a concession contract, this is a service, it is not the good. Let's get this straight. And I'll say it again, and I'll finish, Mr. President. Water is a public asset, nor will it be expensive, sold or sold. But to reach the end user, that is, in our home, we need networks, infrastructure, artificial lakes, dams that need to be maintained. And it comes here and says the Greek Government that after 2020 the new concession will start, instead of giving 26.5 million a year to the EAW, we can see if we can do it with PPP. It's so simple what I'm telling you. It has nothing to do with privatisation. I don't know how you guys are a man you understand, you keep saying that. And even when your left space actually went and put the whole company in the superstition. So you've done what you've done for five years, and you've come now and you're swinging our fingers when - what do we do? - We're trying to get the uncomfortable together. To get back the works that were given to the EEAS and to try to collect the cost. So - I repeat to be clear - another agency, namely, works, another good. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Minister. Don't go, we have another question for you. It's next. Following the sixth question by number 781/5-6-2020 of the second question by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Theopistis (Petis) Perkas, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "A state aid for AEGEAN" without guarantees for the Greek State". Here, Mrs. Perka, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact is that since the time I have tabled this question to date, the data have changed. However, I can say that the substance of the question remains. At that time we had reports saying about 400 million State aid to AEGEAN. I am a parentheses, and I say that of course we realise that the airlines have suffered a great deal because of the pandemic. Nevertheless, we also learned from statements by your own and Mr.Georgiadis' Minister for Development that you did not intend to ask for shares or participation in the board of directors of the company if State aid was given. At the same time, both AEGEAN and all the airlines with the horizontal measures you have taken for transport and air transport. And I would like to say that it is true that we do not disagree to give some support to all the companies. But it is always with a guarantee for the public interest and, of course, also with some resistance to jobs and workers. The latest news is, therefore, that a loan of EUR 150 million was requested with the guarantee of the Greek State and thus added to the other measures that are the reduction of VAT on transport to 13%. It is also the measure to take voucher. That is what we have been put before, and we say that it is not possible to violate the European Commission's Rules of Procedure. I think we'll have a problem. Because the Commissioner herself said that this is unacceptable, it is against passenger rights, that is not to say not to return the money but for 18 months to give a voucher and then to return. I don't know why you're still supporting this. Only 12 countries requested the amendment. That's not what happened. So it's like passengers borrowing the company. There are various other measures that I will not mention. I may have to tell my dentistry. It is important that all this has not been integrated into an integrated plan so that the State aid to large airlines will also be accompanied by State involvement in the board of directors. This is no longer strange if we see what is happening in Italy with the nationalisation of ALITALIA, what is happening with AIR FRANCE and KLM where France and the Netherlands share 14% in shares. They offer financial support, but they set conditions for the freezing of dividends, bonuses and, of course, more ecological policy. I can mention a number of European countries, but there is that in America too. In this sense, the question is mainly about what purpose you have with the airlines. What guarantees will the Greek State receive for these loans? Because if the company goes bankrupt, someone has to tell us what's going to happen. And, of course, what is your plan when, in a few months' time, the company will probably be in this difficult position, because it is not predictable that there will be a growth in air transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perka. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr Karamanlis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Perka, I'm glad we agree that everyone recognizes that the coronary pandemic first affected it was what we call air industry and air industry. The second element, of course, has to do with a separation of the substance of State aid. You will allow me to say this: it is another thing that a government should use public resources to distort competition, which is totally forbidden by European law, and it is another thing that economic advantages and economic facilities are provided, which in fact in relation to other European countries were the smaller ones that were given and I will give you information. We are doing this to serve the public interest. AEGEAN, therefore, has indeed been hit by the crisis. Is this the only company affected by the crisis? Of course not. And I'm glad everyone knows that now. Just because it was not the only company that was affected, the European Union came and decided to create a framework for supporting the industry. On 19 March, therefore, the so-called "Temporary State Aid Framework", which has even been renewed two to three times, is coming and creating the so-called "Temporary State Aid Framework". This framework looks at what it predicts. It provides, inter alia, support for firms affected with loans up to six years and up to 90% of the public guarantee for up to 25% of the turnover. AEGEAN has a turnover of 1.3 billion. The help she got is 11% rather than 25% and she didn't get it in direct money, but in facilities. So we're talking about that in relation to other companies getting the least help possible. Also, and this is very important, our country has chosen to make sectoral horizontal measures to support other Greek airlines that have chosen to use a completely different aid system, which was, in fact, direct funding, something that we have not done at this stage. Secondly, the aid concerns not only the airlines, but the industry as a whole. I would remind you that these measures have favoured the 'SKY EXPRESS', 'ELLINAIR', 'BLUEBIRD'. The measures taken by the Government have favoured a number of other companies such as ‘SWISSPORT’, ‘SKYSERV’, ‘GOLDEAIR HANDLING’, as well as providers, namely ‘Eleftherios Venizelos’, ‘AIA’ and ‘FRAPORT’. In other words, with the measures that we have actually taken, we have supported the 12 000 workers in the air transport sector in general. They do not specifically and only concern the support of AEGEAN. In fact, let us say here that it is well again 'AEGEAN' and it is not the old 'Olympic'. Because AEGEAN is currently one of the most robust airlines in almost all of Europe with a fleet renewal programme from the largest currently in Europe. What we have finally facilitated and given to 'Aegean' - not 'Aegean', but to its pilots and if you want to do so, I will explain it to you - what was it? Their tax burdens were made easier when in other countries there was no money available. And I am pleased that you spoke about ‘ALITALIA’, which has been given aid from the Italian Government of EUR 3.2 billion. We know, what reinforcement we have given 'Aegean' and 'SKY EXPRESS'? We've given $6 million for the three months. That was direct support that we gave. And I mean financial support. We therefore understand the differences. Therefore, it is important to avoid impressing because the Greek Government did not actually share the capital or take any golden share to participate in the company’s share capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Perka, the reason for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to ask you, Minister: do you know how many small and medium-sized enterprises, such as hoteliers, shopkeepers, are at present unable to obtain a loan, not with a public guarantee, but at all? Not to think that when you get a loan with a public guarantee, isn't it hot money? Let's get this straight. That's the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u110	Too many companies...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u111	Okay. I'm not talking about all the companies in general. I am talking about the situation and small and medium-sized enterprises do not have access to borrowing, however, with the guarantee of the Greek public. That's the first. I know the horizontal measures, Minister. I mentioned it before, like VAT. And some of these are good. Some may not agree. But these must be costed. We don't even know what they're talking about. There, some specific subsidies are added - I would say - as it is. But you will allow me to say this: ‘ALITALIA’ is nationalized. It has taken many billions and is nationalized. In Belgium there is a nationalisation of ‘BRUSSELLS AIRLINES’. Portugal is not excluded from the nationalisation of 100% of the TAP, which already belongs to the public. In Czechoslovakia, the 'CZECH AIRLINES' will probably go for full redemption. In other words, there is a tendency everywhere. And I mentioned to America myself, where any company gets with a guarantee of public hot money takes public shares, at least, until this period passes to have a guarantee that the public will get its money. This is a tactic that Europe and America are following, as we have said. I would like to say another thing: Minister, it may not be directly linked, but we also have the APA. We've said it many times before. Spend a year and the AMP that is also a guarantee of good operation is not yet set up. That's a very big problem. I've asked you more questions. I'll see you around. I would also like to say that I have asked five written questions and I have not received any answers. I'm saying that for the airports, because I just got a new one. The European Commission has taken out Greek airports as the safest airports due to measures. I just haven't confirmed it. But look it up. It makes sense. This may be another object, but, because you have not given the airports this competence. In any case, I would like to say that I would like to see an answer on whether we can obtain a guarantee for this facility to 'Aegean'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perka. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u113	Stop the spaghetti. It's a shame, Mrs. Perka, to say these things from a Chamber Step. Let me tell you what you did. Mr. Spirtzis brought a bill for the APA in 2016 and did not implement it. The first thing we did at the Ministry, do you know what it was? We went to EASA and we called for "apologies" for your own mistakes. And we've taken a time limit for the bill to be filed. What did you do? You'd be the one who had an ADI to help Mr. Lingeraco.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u114	Do the best...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u115	You had made a statement that made the commander of the PSC the commander of the PSC chosen by the SYRIZA government. The Europeans did not know where you were coming from. Even in Africa, this was not the case. We avoided subjugation at that time, because we said that in a year's time we would bring the bill. I'm sorry, but we had COVID -19 for three months. The bill's ready. And he'll be here. And we are in full agreement on this draft law with the European institutions and with DIGI.COM. Therefore, to move us to the left for so-called state aid, when I explained very calmly that 'AEGEAN' has received EUR 150 million of aid, which is 11%, when the average in Europe is 30%, instead of being pleased about what we have a healthy company that does not want any more aid, what does counter-population do? He comes and says: Shame! Why did he get that backup?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u116	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Giannoulis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u118	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Giannoulis, he's right. He didn't interrupt anyone. Let him finish. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u120	All right, now here we live the madness of the Left today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u121	Leave the Left alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Giannoulis, please leave the dialogue. She's answering Mrs. Perka!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u123	The Greek State is currently coming, giving 6 million euros of which 4 million go to AEGEAN and 2 million go to SKY EXPRESS, and we will, of course, get approval from the European Commission and compare it to the hundreds and tens of millions of other companies in Europe. What are we comparing? We compare two different things. So, because you don't have an opposition role in this, what do you say now? You say that the Greek airports will be subjugated, which we prevented. You say, "What are you doing with the PSC and the PSC?" when you had passed the law at the end of 2016 and by 2019 you had done nothing. And you're coming and you're swinging our finger for this? You, Mrs Perka, especially, because you were at the Ministry, you know these issues very well and you know what happened with the PSC and the PSC. And it's true that we want to make a distinction between what's reforming that's going to be the RU and what's doing the service that's going to be the RU. So don't say things that don't apply. Firstly, not to say that AEGEAN has received State aid and state money, which it did not get. Secondly, we should be happy to have an aviation industry that is currently able to stand up without much support from the state. And thirdly, let us say that this debate today is completely untimely, today when airports have been opened and we welcome tourists and we slowly come out of this process. Please, let us not create the wrong impressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. We shall now proceed to the next topical and urgent debate, and I would ask the ministers to be prepared for us. They're coming for a question, don't go to other issues. So we move on to the second with number 778/5-6-2020 in the first cycle of the Achaias MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Building a public job sentence". Mr. Marku, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now, dragging the opportunity from the last words of the previous minister, to tell you that in an African country...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u126	No, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u127	Allow me, Mr President, to have my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u128	I don't allow you to, because the Minister is gone and what to answer now...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u129	In an African country, therefore, in the penitentiary, because that is what I am talking about, the administrations have changed overnight. So in the Patras penitentiary, the previous director with four years' pre-retirement service, with thirty-five years' pre-service, was replaced by the New Democracy Nomenclura, with an employee of twenty years' pre-service and - the worst thing I denounce it publicly and in denounce it three days ago to Mr Chrysochoidis - persecuted on the disciplinary board, signed by the State Secretary for Civil Protection. In other words, they themselves are in the same situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u130	Spend a minute on another matter. Please, Mr Marcus, your question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u131	It's all right, Mr. Chiara, you got away. You have persecuted anti-crime policy from the Ministry of Justice and believe me, you must be happy! Well, you've answered a question a month ago, that you can't implement the social work programme, and I'm coming to the point. It started in our country in 1991, started in 1997 and the services of juveniles and social assistance started to work after 2007. Usually the perpetrators of the institution are not criminal, they do not threaten society as a whole and imprisonment in prison can only have negative consequences. At the theoretical level, it can be said that the provision of social benefits is a criminal institution which reflects the flexibility of the penalty at the time of its enforcement and, in its application, justice is called upon to combine reciprocity with redress justice. The reformist ideal, which we are discussing - you know, I am passing away, was first entrusted by Plato to the protogoras - started by Italian forensics in the 19th century. Then there was a major reform that did not accept it in the United States at the beginning of the twentieth century. The implementation of this legal standard in the United States, therefore, gave years of experience to understand that a nation behind the bars is not effective as a jurisprudence system. So it once again began to change in the United States as a state obligation, a duty to reform the prisoner. So we have the United States, Germany since 1972, the first in Europe, France, the Scandinavian countries and many others that apply it. The Government of SYRIZA took into account the authoritative scientists of the Legislative Committee for the Upgrading of Non-Proliferation of Work to Primary Penalty by voting on the new penal codes. Have you been informed of the different models of penitentiary treatment? And if so, which of all do you adopt: The punishing reward model, the beneficial deterrent model, the reformist improvement model, the reconversion model, the reinvigorating model? Have you been informed by the science of forensics? Because if you don't, the conversation stops here. Finally, do you consider him useful or not? I would like you to answer that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Marco. The Minister of Justice will answer Mr. Constantine Tsiara. Mr. Chiara, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I want to be clear all along. The possibility of a convicted accused of a minor offence to serve his sentence in an alternative way of building, such as a socially beneficial job, is surely a worthy part of the rule of law of a liberal democratic state and, of course, a humanitarian penitentiary. This is a principle with which I do not think anyone in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament could disagree. I would, of course, agree that, beyond the failures of the Criminal Code, which you voted on one day before the Greek Parliament was closed to lead the country to elections - but I will return to that - the prediction of imposing socially beneficial work not only as a form of conversion of the custodial penalty or the replacement of the financial penalty, but also as a primary penalty, which is imposed at the outset by a decision of the criminal court, is a step towards modernising our criminal system in a more penalistic and less punishable direction. After all, this is the trend that prevails in general and in European law. And I would like to agree with the regression you have made, the historical regression, on how it slowly joined legal systems of countries, the possibility of penalty as a socially beneficial job. However, we have to agree on some things, in the fact that public work should be done as an alternative to the creation of a penalty by specific rules and conditions. You know that, over the years, the potential of socially beneficial work, despite the fact that the forecast exists beyond OTAs, and in a wide range of public sector services, basically were carried out in local government. And that's exactly where problems started. The problems, above all, were about the fact that there was no possibility of continuous monitoring, whether people who were obliged to carry out the specific penalty in the way that was planned and should have been done, and, of course, whether or not, whether by voting on the new Criminal Code and given that the public works were now being carried out, you realise that this figure would increase to a very difficult extent. I do not hide from you that since I was in the position of Minister of Justice, I have worked in a context of great concern about how we could, on the one hand, ensure a greater number of socially beneficial jobs and, on the other, on how this possibility would be under a specific control. Because when we are not talking about an alternative penalty and we are talking about a principal penalty, you realise that the condition in the rule of law is to be fulfilled. This, too, is a condition for which no one can express doubt. I asked, therefore, for the first time from the CEDEFOP, which Mr Patoulis was then leading to - there was still no reform of the institutions - to hold a first debate, a very first meeting, a first meeting, in order to look at the issues, so that we can organise the model for the creation of a socially beneficial job through concrete data. This is what I will tell you, in fact, that it was before the change in the law, through which I provided for the suspension of this penalty for socially beneficial work. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] However, there has been a change in the administration of the CEDEFOP. I have been in constant communication with her - I will immediately close, Mr President, and I will say it in my denture - I have been with them in a continuous communication process. Unfortunately, the establishment of the new institutions of the new JRC has delayed quite a bit. The answer I have received, that they intend to exhaust their dialogue with all the municipalities, in order to find the exact number of jobs which one could be "exploited" in order to continue the debate, was an answer which referred me to a next meeting with them. This meeting was set in the first days of March, where we had the coronary data and since then we have been basically on this waiting. I will return to my dentistry, to tell you specific things that we have already done, but also what we have to do in the short time available from now to the time that I personally intend to conclude this debate, to get into a suspension of this article of the law, namely, to stop the suspension, so that you, as well as the House and the Greek citizens, can also have knowledge of how the Ministry of Justice sees this development.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Marcus, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u135	Minister, first of all, I am truly pleased with the first wordings of principle you have made. This is very important to me. Of course, you also know as a practical scientist, as a doctor, that everything from the result is judged, so you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u136	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u137	We will not doubt that, when it comes to the implementation of social work, it is, in fact, a humanitarian initiative that is a penalist initiative. Of course, apart from self-government, prisoners - so to speak - who are involved have shown interest in joining other bodies, legal associations, forestry services, hospitals, homes and social services, which at this time are under threat from a lack of officials. Today these services lack this aid. Now, with so much response you realize how win-win is such an application. For the placement of the CEDEFOP, I have retained its statement that the measure of socially beneficial labour as an alternative sentence can be applied by the majority of municipalities. This position of the CEDEFOP is unequivocal. The government, in the context of the pandemic, adopted the views of scientists. I think that on this path the government should go ahead on this issue. We must hear the outcry of the centuries, the cry of the Greek Union for Human Rights, the Legal Service - as in a committee of Parliament was expressed by the Vice-President of the Athens Bar Association - and, of course, the collectives defending the prisoners as regards their rights. There is one problem: Timetable there is no suspicion. I am pleased with your unequivocal findings earlier on the cancellation of the institution. Now if it is not done, you should know that in another area as a government you will be charged with setbacking and regression rather than modernising. Please give us an implementation schedule in which I believe you will be very convincing not only to me but also to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Marcus. You saw how calm you said it. You and Mr. Chiara got together. You've had a problem with Mr. Karamanlis before. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Colleague, we're all judged. This is my basic principle, in relation to what we say and what we do in the end. And I think that besides anything else, apart from whatever, if you want, confrontation or debate, there can be between us, there are Greek citizens who judge us, at least in a public presence, and that I think that each one of us should keep for himself. I would therefore like to repeat the following. It is a political will of the government and of me personally - I am telling you - not only to implement, but to improve the institution of social work. And I say it without making a complete discount of this particular position. I told you earlier that, for practical reasons of elections and a change in administration, the Local Governments were unable and perhaps even today when we are talking about this consultation, to answer the specific number of posts. But before I tell you the facts, I want you to take note of this. Do you know who the supervisors are in the essence of social work, what the monitoring structures are? They are the caretakers' services and social assistance services. Do you know how many people are in all of Greece right now we're talking? Forty-six for the whole country. I will tell you that only in March 2020 - that is half a month, the other half had the pandemic lockdown - the active assumptions about Athens were four hundred fifty. Consider that the service can handle seventy new cases every month. Do you realize how big the problem is when we have to see it in a projection where public work becomes a primary penalty and not an alternative penalty? In other words, the number is huge and we need to see that this penalty is actually being carried out. So what is the logic for which we have so far been in this suspension? The completion of the dialogue with the CEDEFOP and OTAs. In my view, all the municipalities in the country should be included in this process. I will also tell you here in parentheses that there were a lot of decisions in the Court of First Instance, for example, in Athens, which were meant to go for a socially beneficial job and returned because there was no position, with the previous reality. Think about the new penal code that we can lead. But, of course, we can see all the additional services that can be accepted by people who will serve the socially beneficial job. I will tell you attributes that today I saw the Association of Prosecutors of Greece and we did indeed have a serious discussion on this issue. It was symptomical, of course, about the fact that today we are discussing a timely question of your own. And a great deal of thought has indeed been developed. We have said, among other things, that it may also be a place where there is a great deal of trouble and a great gap that could be explained as a penalty for public work and the Ministry of Justice as well, if you like, I have to fill in. We therefore need all these people and for the sake of genuine penitentiary, to bring them beyond the structures of self-government or possibly the health system. Although there is a debate on the crimes committed - you understand what I mean - if we have to get back there and see whether they can be found in the justice system, because in this way you understand that the educational and penal influence - at least I want to believe - will have a much greater effect. However, I would like to say one more thing to you. You know that even this little insurance - at the height of which I mean - is to be paid in order to carry out the socially beneficial work, is paid by the Ministry of Justice. Do you know that we can't exactly calculate what the cost can be? Even this is a serious matter. And I'm saying it because I want to show the curiosity and, if you want, the undoubted velocity...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u140	And as a prisoner again, he's insured!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u141	...with which the previous government legislated the new Criminal Code. Here, instead of there being an overall agreement of the political system, since we are not talking about a Criminal Code or Code of Criminal Procedure that has referred to a government or a political party, but has mentioned the whole of the Greek society, no one can justify this study that has not allowed very specific studies to be completed in relation to what we would have done as a result and as an effect. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I am telling you this because this concern, which at least at first level you express, I share it, I understand it and I tell you in advance that I have the same view as you. The question is to be able to take the necessary steps, knowing exactly what they are. We want to know how many positions can be met, we want there to be a specific monitoring mechanism, because at the moment with the data available, that - as you can see - is not possible and we want to know what the data is about even the Ministry of Justice, which is about this step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u142	Please conclude, Minister, with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u143	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for the time. The answer - a letter to which you referred earlier than the CEDEFOP was the first letter sent by Mr Patulis. There is a second letter sent by the new President, Mr Papageorgiou - I will put it in the Minutes, keep it in mind - and it is the basis on which we are currently discussing with the CEDEFOP. As far as the steps in the timetable are concerned, what I can tell you is that soon before we reach the point of avengement with the new Criminal Code - and you understand what I mean - that is, even now that we are talking about, we do not have the result of the new Criminal Code. In other words, we are in an empty space of time, which we can have this debate completed, taking the steps I described earlier. So I think that very soon - I want to believe, at least by the end of the year - we will have completed this process that I described earlier, so that public work can be implemented in terms of rules, conditions, control, all that is appropriate to a favoured democratic state, without any doubt to the Greek citizen that a primary penalty is not being implemented or that there is an insight into these cases, without the Greek state being justified on the other side. So I assure you, and I say this in the knowledge that we are in this direction, we will do what needs to be done, there will be no real gap. And from there on, I imagine that the Greek citizens, as we have said earlier, will be able to judge according to how they are expressed and what they say if they are real and whether each Greek citizen can see it in his own reality and in his own life. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u144	Thank you too, Minister. We move on to the next one, which is the fourth with number 771/5-2020, a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastasis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject of "Mission of students in the productive schools of the Armed Forces and the Security Body". Mr. Papastasis, two minutes is at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that, in order to serve the structures of both the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, their respective productive schools operate. In these schools, their future members are trained. These students are paid a monthly allowance, designed to cover part of their needs for their living within and outside schools. In these amounts, there is a truly provocative disparity, as far as their level is concerned, between what students of the Armed Forces Schools and the respective Security Colleges receive. The use of the term 'provocative disparity' lies in the fact that the money, allocated to students in the schools of the Armed Forces, falls short - if possible! - up to 400% of the equivalent received by students from the Security College. The Communist Party of Greece on this issue had already tabled a question on 6058 at the beginning of April. Through the corresponding response of the Minister of National Defence, the existence of this problem is, in fact, recognised and, as a solution, what does the Minister propose? It simply refers to the discussion of this issue in the bells of the Ministry of Finance, linking any future approach to the implementation of the budget in general and the budgetary conditions in question. In other words, as our people say, "live, May, to eat clover." In order to understand the provocative differences we are talking about, I quote some examples. Armed Forces Schools, schools of higher military training institutions, E hopeful School, School of Naval Testing, Faculty of Icarons: students receive 157,50 euros. School of Permanent Officials of the Drought Army: Students receive 118,80 euros. Security Teacher's Schools: The Cadet Officer receives 325 euros and the Cadet Lieutenant at the fourth year of school 669 euros. Watch the next example. Student of the Port Body receives 623 euros, almost four times that of his classmate at the Naval Testing School, which is 157 euros. Bearing in mind that these two may sit in the same throne at the Naval Testing School. In conclusion, I think it is important to point out that this existential one - and in the view of your Ministry - problem, the pan-Hellenic Federation of Military Associations, the WTO, the secondary trade union organ of active officials, has put it in writing. This is something that shows the enormous value of the collective representation of the Armed Forces themselves. Minister, after the above, we ask you: What measures does your Government intend to take to ensure that students of the productive schools of the Armed Forces are paid the equivalent of those of the students of the Security College? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, too. The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Alkiviadis Stefanis, will answer. Mr. Stefani, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you for your interest in the issues involved in the operation of the military schools of the Armed Forces, as with the question put, I am given the opportunity to explain the Ministry's views on this matter. First of all, I would like to mention that military schools are high-level educational institutions, from which they graduate the future members of the Armed Forces who are the multiplier of our power. In this context, the Ministry and the general staff are constantly making every effort to improve both the quality of education and the conditions of students' study in them. In particular, as regards remuneration, paid to students, these are regulated on the basis of their wage classification, as provided for in Article 126 of Law 4472/2017 and as mentioned above, the students of IAS are entitled monthly to the amount of EUR 157,50, while the students of IASs are entitled to the amount of EUR 118,80. In this regard, I would like to point out that the costs associated with the schooling of all military schools, including food, clothing, training costs, tuition, operating costs for the accommodation support provided, as well as the costs for their medical care, are fully covered by the State budget, with the care of the Ministry and the general staff. I would like to repeat, as the Minister of National Defence has already answered, in his reply of 20 May, that, in any case, the policy on military staff compensation for the time and the amount of that compensation is determined exclusively by the Ministry of Finance, along with the course of implementation of the budget and the budgetary conditions in question. Our Ministry is a constant will and our main priority is the fair treatment of the demands of the officials and disciples of our military schools. In this context, the relevant mandate has already been given to take a direct initiative by the relevant bodies in order to send a request to the Ministry of Finance to examine the possibility of updating the pay framework of the pupils of military schools within the limits of the current financial reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u149	Minister, we know very well that by asking a question related to allowances, fees, etc., responsible or, if you wish, the Ministry of Finance is also responsible. But it is not by chance that we should address this matter exclusively to the Ministry of National Defence. You know very well, I know that - we are both graduates of the same military school, the Military School of Hope - is aware of it all of the executives who have graduated from the military productive schools of the Armed Forces at every level that they are dominated and taught in this sense. And here it is clear that for the government policy implemented in the area of the Armed Forces, the responsibility for their implementation lies with the Ministry of Defence. Even if these are issues which are purely economic, political responsibility may be the responsibility of the government, but the responsibility for bringing about their solution is to take every initiative to solve these problems. In our view, the refusal of the government to resolve this problem is a very serious matter, and we urge you to make a commitment today that you will not ignore it, once again. You will not ignore it, you will not ignore not the proposal of a trade union organ of active officials, nor its parliamentary promotion through the Communist Party of Greece. For us, it is our duty to do it. Beware that for this provocative inequality you will take concrete initiatives, with constant information from stakeholders. Minister, you are well aware that the vast majority of young people who join these schools come from people, workers, rural families. Consequently, the ability of their families to help them financially for three or four years is minimal to zero and is in any event unbearable. As you know, students in military schools live within their schools and have no choice of working to meet part of their needs, which we all know very well that the allowance granted to them is incomplete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Even though, due to the news, the Armed Forces as a mechanism are daily in mediation, the problems of their staff are systematically overshadowed and we are dynamically opposed. As a Communist Party, we are committed to insisting that this issue be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr Papapastasis. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u152	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u153	I would like to return by saying that thank you very much for the proposal, which we are already studying and which we will already make proposals. However, what I want to say is this: personnel employment is a day-to-day thing, where we have a great deal of time to do and why we have to do that. Also, daily is the effort to upgrade our schools either by additional courses or by additional actions. I remind you in recent years, since we have finished the same school, things that the current students do, we have not even thought about doing so at that time, such as - one example - the fall by parachutes or participation in specific training. These are things that are done in order to get out, in military life, much more comprehensive, far more ready than the older ones. And we collect this daily, children - as you said - modern, boys and girls, with love for the country, with great morality, having the proper supplies, give them for the good of the country and the good of the Greek people. So we're worried, and we know very well what we're going to do. The Prime Minister's information is daily for the schools and every day he intervenes either by granting additional appropriations or by means of interventions in this field. Finally, I would like to refer to the following point: it is a completely different framework for military schools than, for example, for the EPP. I remind you of something that you know about the students at the Greek police academies coming out every day. So they themselves come to meet the need for payment, food, something that is not happening in military schools. So you see, I mentioned one case and there are too many of them. I should like to close by saying this: thank you for the proposal. We are already studying it and you will soon see its evolution. You asked me to commit ourselves as a ministry. We have already discussed with the Minister, we are committed to our staff. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u154	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Don't go, we've got another question for you. So we move on to the ninth under number 788/5-6-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Access to military schools for pupils". Mr. Giannoulis, you have two minutes at your disposal. You won't embarrass me in keeping time. That's a very good question, but we've got a lot of backs waiting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u155	Don't worry, Mr. President. Thank you for the reason. Mr Stefani, thank you for your presence. Look, sometimes how fate plays some games, not Mr Vorides' entry, but for the continuation of the question of my colleague, Mr Papastasis and your colleague in the Armed Forces, because you both had the honour of serving in the Armed Forces, while the children, who are the subject of this question, do not have that right, Mr Stefani. I have not come in any way here in order to have any kind of controversy. And I do not hide you from the fact that I am very pleased to be responding to you and not to the Minister in all respects, Mr Panagiotopoulos, precisely because you have military experience, you have served in the Armed Forces and you will better understand that the Armed Forces cannot be Caucasus for children with dyslexia or learning difficulties. A very brief regression. There was a major mistake in 2014. In 2014, a presidential decree was issued that, contrary to world data, incorporated these children with learning difficulties in mental illness, a mistake that we did not correct, Minister, and in the years that followed and we must admit it. It is a mistake that today, which is the day the struggle of the Third High School children begins for their entry into higher education, we have an obligation to do everything possible to restore this injustice. Children with dyslexia, Minister - and I imagine you are aware of it as experienced officers and you and Mr Papastasis - are children with particular intelligence, are not children mental illnesses. Their families are families of real heroes who are trying - and I mentioned just one example - since 2014, for this criminal presidential decree, which ranked them into mental illness, to win their lives. They are not asking for the leniency, tolerance or assistance of the military committees, they are seeking justice. They are asked to be given the opportunity to compete with what is provided for in the Constitution and the laws, because there is a constitutional guarantee of their right to go ahead in life, but a presidential decree comes and gives it a restraining and, unfortunately - and I shall refer to my dentistry - your former colleagues the opportunity to act authoritatively, abruptly and not on the sensitivities of a cultivated officer, not to give them the possibility, Mr Minister, not even to be evaluated. Seeing as having given oral examination, as provided by the laws, they immediately close the file. Mr President, I am going to continue with his second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Alkiviadis Stefanis, will answer. Mr. Stefani, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank you, Mr Giannoulis, for the question put, and I am given the opportunity to explain the Minister's views on the matter. First of all, I would like to point out that military schools are specialised educational institutions, which provide both academic and military education and from which the future members of the Armed Forces graduate, which are also the core of the organisational structure of the Armed Forces. For the introduction of pupils to military schools, preliminary examinations shall be carried out, part of which shall concern the control of their physical capacity, in order to determine their health and well-being by the appropriate health committees, so that they can successfully learn. The examination and the judgment of the students' physical ability is conducted on the basis of the forecasts, as you said, of Article 4 of d.d.11/2014. Considering the legislation, it is concluded that the distinction between learning disorders and those which permit or prevent the adaptation to the military environment is not the intention of the legislature to apply to candidates for military schools. This exclusion from the introduction to military schools is justified by the fact that military personnel of the Armed Forces, both in the time of peace and in the event of a generalised conflict, due to the extremely stressful and psychotic conditions caused by the urgent and unforeseen situations, are invited to meet in short periods of time, with limited margins of reaction in order to successfully fulfil their duties. Regarding the question of the possibility of oral examination provided by a Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Education to pupils with special educational needs, I would like to point out that this legislative framework, introduced by the above Ministerial Decision, is essentially about that section of the control of the student performance of candidates for access to higher education, which is a different issue in relation to the crisis of the possibility of introducing them into military schools. For this, the legislator has predicted additional examinations, precisely because of the increased requirements of the military status at school and after graduation. I would once again like to thank you for your question. You are giving us the right to redirect the matter, to look at its particular features and, of course, to follow what experts say about it. We'll invoke them and see how we redirect them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u159	Minister, I am truly pleased not with the content of your answer, because it is very sad with the 'Window' that you let it be reviewed on the basis of both Greek and international experience. In this I will help you and the people who live up to the problem of learning difficulties, but also enjoy the joy of children with these particular difficulties to highlight and prove particular skills and to cope with very stressful conditions, not of course of a military operation, what you may describe, but in particularly stressful situations of real life. This will help you by the Hellenic Society of Dyssexia and international organizations. I will omit some of the presumptions of international experience to go directly to the United States, Minister, and here is the 'window' we would like you to do so really 'window' of sun, light and hope for these children. In the United States, not only are these children not excluded by dyslexia, with learning difficulties, but one of the most powerful educational institutions in the world defence is urging the United States' Armed Forces to give them opportunities to encourage them to join important branches of the Armed Forces. I repeat that I accept the specificities of military schools, but I also accept a global experience, which says very simply that we can now improve this legislative framework. It's called anachronistic notion that these kids can't be introduced into what they dream of. You know, I'm sure that both families and children themselves have not only the economic, bio-realistic or professional perspective in their minds when they want to be introduced into military schools. They have another flame, because they're just children with particular sensations. I challenge you and please. It is the period of the pan-Hellenic examinations. These crises, which are made in his logic, "close the file, go into history, your learning difficulty closes the door to the military schools", be a past. You can achieve this even for the current competitive period of the pan-Hellenic examinations. It is about 8% of the Greek population, which faces such problems with different variations of intensity and characteristics. We cannot say that there is an impregnable fortress in which I am sure sensitivity is lacking, skills are lacking, the spirit of modernisation is lacking. There is only a lack of determination to proceed with a step and at least to erase this wound that is in knowledge and also the Citizens' Counselor and international bodies. I have not randomly chosen the Armed Forces of the United States. It is experience throughout Europe and in Greece. These children have the right to opportunities equally, because they have more favors and virtues, but they also have boldness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr Giannoulis, for keeping your word. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Giannoulis, I'm starting with the first theme, the United States. Yes, in the United States they have taken the step. There, however, they give the possibility to those of the children who wish to go to school for a year and at the end of the year now choose which to continue. A minimum percentage remains. A second point which I would like to raise is the following: we are studying what is going on worldwide, internationally and internally. We're listening to the experts. In no case do we question the philosopheria, the love for offering, the giving of one's own life to the Armed Forces and to the homeland. Alas. But what do we want to confirm for everyone? We want to confirm that this man who will come to the Armed Forces will be able primarily to protect himself and the personnel he commands in order to be able to carry out his mission. The third point I want to make is this. I would remind you that on 31 August 2015 eight New Democracy Members made the same proposal, taking a negative answer after five days of the then State Secretary, Mr Toska. For five years then, nothing has happened in this area. Now, right now that we're talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u162	I told you earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u163	Thanks for that. At the moment we are talking about New Democracy MPs again, they have come to the ministry and tabled a proposal which is extended and having received all the information that you rightly described. In conclusion, I would like to say that thank you very much for the proposal. We're already studying it. First of all, we will listen to experts, as the government always does, in view of our homeland, and to the fact that these people will be safe, as it will be safe for their environment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. You were the best twin! So we move to the fourth under number 1178/49/10-10-2019 question and application for documents from the cycle of petitions - questions by the Member of Bootia of the Change Movement Mr.George Mulkiotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Towards and perspective of the General Mining and Metalworking S.A. (SPEAKING) LARCO’. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question comes to Parliament today because it has not been answered since 8 October 2019. In this sense, therefore, this specific question is being discussed today. As you know very well, LARCO is one of the few remaining heavy industries in our country and is among the first five largest ferro-nickel producers in the world and, of course, is the largest in Europe. It is the only company that exploits its own nickel deposits, a factor of excellent quality ferro-nickel that makes it sought on the world market. It employs a thousand three hundred people and of course cooperates with twelve thousand five hundred ATMs. You know the place after you visited him. In fact, it is to your credit that you are one of the few ministers of government, who visits places the state itself. In recent years, therefore, this colossus has indeed had problems, which have to do with the following facts: After Bodossakis it was taken over by the state. After Bodossakis was chartered by the private body and the state took it. And thankfully, the state took over and intervened, because otherwise there would be a problem with its viability. However, it seems that the administrations and those appointed by the state did not do their job well. I am not going to mention, because you know that very well, in the case of the pre-sale of the hedging display, so that we have losses of over EUR 500,000, 000, as well as in other cases relating to mismanagement. However, this does not mean that there is no LARCO, there is no look, there is no interest. And, of course, the worst part is that the government is now coming and throwing all the burdens on the workers. The workers are to blame for the 'Larco'. Indeed, Minister, it is regrettable that various kinds of parrots are coming out and that workers are being made redundant. This is a very bad, very unfavourable development at this stage. My question, Mr Minister, to you at this stage is this: we have the post-COVID period, and we also have Europe trying to support heavy industries. LARCO, which is one of the only heavy industries in Greece, has rich deposits, the mineral wealth is unique and we look to exploit and exploit this mineral wealth, so that we can produce and, according to the production that we will have, have the corresponding results. So, is the government considering in this post-COVID period -19 the change in the plan and the framework that it has adopted at the moment by means of the special clearance procedure, so that we can have another model of growth and use of this wealth in general for Greece? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too. Mr Gerasimos Thomas has the floor. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. Unfortunately, we had answered this question late a few days ago. In the meantime, you have tabled further questions on this issue, which we are answering, because we are very closely concerned about it and of interest to us. LARCO is a company that passed under the responsibility of our Ministry in August 2019 and placed new administration in October. Our concern from the outset is to keep the company open even though the business situation was dramatic. Since the year 2018 there has been a negative EUR 308 million position, there have been debts of EUR 0,5 billion to third parties and large debts to PPC of EUR 350 million, fines for environmental pollution of EUR 50 million and fines of the European Court of Justice EUR 106 million plus interest. This behaviour of the company that comes from the past, from various governments, is no longer tolerated and a company that operates with these standards is not compatible with the country's environmental and economic policy. The international economic situation developed by COVID is a burden on the operation, because the price of nickel has fallen very much, and the demand for nickel has made the situation even more difficult. Nevertheless, the "LARCO", which has now been placed under special management regime under the provisions of Article 21 of Law 4664/2020, also proceeds with the special administrator, who is obliged to operate in a specific legislative plan, does everything to keep the company open, to satisfy employees, suppliers, subcontractors, creditors, with all the money and by fulfilling all the obligations from 28-2-2020 and then, with a ranking table laid down in the law. In spite of the unfavourable circumstances created by COVID, it did not stop the factory on COVID, as other industries have stopped, the remuneration for no COVID has been reduced and it continues to make every effort to ensure that the operational obligations are progressing and that all suppliers are normally served and paid for the staff of ‘LARCO’. It is clear that we want this plan, which has been reflected in the law, to come to a situation where a new buyer, a new investor for LARCO, will be able to give a new breath to this company. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u169	Mr Secretary-General, the problems of 'Larco' - which are known to everyone - over time, unfortunately, also had a name. The administrations had a name. If we look at them over time, we will see, after the period of private Bodossaki the state has taken it, gradually how it moved. In 2000, the LARCO was in a very satisfactory situation. Not that he had so much profits, but he was in a very satisfying situation. And after 2004, then the big fall began. I also referred to the hedging, and I refer to the administration - Screka, and to a thousand other things that have been said. Then we say about PPC's behaviour where the price of electricity has more than doubled, about banks' interest rates, the highest interest rates, the only ones in Europe, which are forbidden to develop a heavy industry. The private sector failed to invest. That's what it turned out to be. The private sector in this particular investment has failed. And, of course, the state is charging the workers its own choices. That's not right, it's not honest. Not all of this can be recognized. Not making right choices to the state doesn't mean it's someone else's fault. It's the same thing. It is a big issue that has never been discussed. But here, in this case, what are we doing, Minister? You see - and you know that very well - the possibility of 'LARCO'. He's got a wealth. That wealth we sell. Why sell him today? Why give him the private? Why sell him out, according to the commonly called 'birth rather'? In other words, can we not create or create an investment that is essential and serious, with a strategic investor, that there is a public character and that it also exploits stainless steel and cobalt which is also the process of transitioning to green energy across Europe? Can we not use this logic and be able to take another step in the national economy itself and in the development process of the national economy? He wants political will. Clearly it wants political will and a very serious decision must be made. We are asking for a change of view that exists to this day. It's not hard. He wants boldness. But it has to change. We cannot claim to go ahead with the logic of liquidation, which has depreciated the company. You know that. He cheated on her. I'm not going to go into any more detail, 'cause time won't allow me. But she has deceived her and this gives a negative message outwards too. And we are talking about a company that has a wealth, which also has to do with green growth, which is what is needed and Europe is strengthening it. So we see that in the post-COVID era Europe is strengthening all the heavy industries, in addition to the regime that the European Union wanted and the restrictions it put on public intervention. That is not the case today. Change the climate, change the regime. That is why we say: why, Minister, do you not change the question of this procedure? You reset yourself. You say 'we change and go to another logic, with another plan'. But it wants a plan and a political will, which is the major, and clear rules on how to move. I believe that a dialogue will be reached, but not with this process that is going on. Selling, selling. It's an entire area. Minister, I will tell you this for the area that is "LARCO" and in particular for Central Greece: Central Greece did the great industrial development, but at its expense, because the environment was completely degraded. Not to say about the Athos and so on. So he lost it. Now make such a move. Is there anything else, given the frustration and the clauses that have cleared up, growth clauses? Is there any other clause here, which you see can be done? Have you already thought, has the government considered how something can be done? With regard to the deprivation you are asking today to do and seek to do, have you thought about how to give the counterweight to this local society? We had eighty dead in this whole process. They've given their blood to keep a business like this alive. And the workers are insisting today that this operation must remain alive. It's a mistake, Minister. We're hitting the alarm, everybody. I believe that the government MPs do not dare to speak. They cannot see this major issue that exists and not just in the local society of Central Greece. You know it's in five counties that's active. It is a major issue that you should see. I believe that this cannot continue. There's gonna be a urination in the area. Society will fall into erosion, there will be thousands of problems and there will be a lot of, a lot of negative effects that will come from what you hope positively achieve. Because you will not achieve anything positive. Just with the sale that will be done, Greece loses public wealth and cannot substitute it otherwise. We're hitting the alarm bell. He wants a political decision. It is not wrong to reset or revise some of the points of view in a process of rationalization that has to do with growth and, indeed, now that all the rules have changed, in the aftermath of COVID -19th century. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr Mulkiotis. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. To hear you, Mr Papoutsis, I think we agree on many things. You just don't understand very well what we're doing. We made a very strong decision. The normal decision when we took this company was to shut it down and lead it to naughty bankruptcy. On the contrary, what did we do? We have chosen to keep it open, to put it in liquidation, to put money from the Greek budget to it - we have put money twice - and, indeed, to make state aid known to the European Union. For the first time, after all these years, money is being put into this company by the Greek State to keep it open. First time! The choice has been made and the whole world needs to be written - suppliers, workers, the whole business world - so that we can support this choice. It takes millions of new investments. With the most conservative calculation we are talking about investment of 150 million in order to make all environmental projects possible to maintain and renew equipment and to enable the company to move forward. We put money in the company to keep it open and to support young people. As you quite rightly said, there are young people working there. And we will have to restructure the staff and staff costs so that this company can move forward. We have done - and the liquidator has, under the law, done - within a tight timetable that has never been observed in any other case - by putting money on the Greek state's resources to keep the company open. We need the consent of workers and suppliers so that we can get to a situation where an investor will come to put millions, which the Greek state cannot afford, so that the necessary environmental and mechanical investments and building investments can be made, so that this company can continue to give local society. I think it is something that the workers are slowly recognizing. In the workers' movement we first see young people who recognize it and want to continue in this new perspective who will find it in front of them and change a page of past practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. And we're going to the next two questions concerning Mr. Voridis. One is not going to be discussed because of a Member's impediment. This is the first question under number 774/5-6-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Chania - Konstantinos Voloudakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Talk Forces of the Dacticide in Crete". The eleventh question will be discussed under number 789/6-2020 in the context of the second question by the MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Addressing reduced production in the olive industry, due to unusually high temperatures (burn) in olive blossom". Mr Arachovite, you have two minutes at your disposal for your prototype. Good evening and a good week to both of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening and good week to everyone. Minister, you would also be informed by your partners in time and by the services that we had unusually high temperatures for May, which coincided with the peak of olive flowering in most parts of the country. It is known that at temperatures above 35 degrees Celsius we have damage to the fruitfill, to the fertility of the flower reflected in the fruiting in various ways. Here this year we have three events at the same time: to have high temperatures, a record of temperatures, a long time in hours, but also to have a repetition of the phenomenon for three consecutive days. According to the figures recorded, from 1860 until today there have been eighteen times all temperatures above 35 degrees. The first hundred thirty years, or 1860 to 1990, occurred eight times. Ten times it has been only in the last thirty years. This shows, therefore, that the consequences of climate change are here. So we see the phenomena of climate change. Because we have increasingly been seeing climate change phenomena more often and more intensely, we have started in time to change the ELGA compensation regulation, which has been the main body itself since 1988. The process of awarding the proportionality study was initiated. But that's why I'll talk to you later on in a timely question, because we have a lot to talk about for the ELGA. In this case, however, because it seems - as does the service colleagues and the private and the producers - that is to say, on olive, we have as low a fruiting point as we have fruits, but also small fruits, small fruits, chicory, that is to say, it seems that there will be a great reduction in production next year. And the question is, Minister, if you intend and how to support olive oil, precisely because the phenomenon has been observed during a period not covered by the current regulation, and if you intend to use the tools offered in Mr Hogan's letter of 27 July 2019 to support olive growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr Arachovitis. It has the floor for the Minister for Rural Development and Food to answer Mr Vorides for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think the incidents in many are the way you have set them up, indeed. In other words, the actual part of this case is so. What have we done now? I'll go to that and then look at the methodology. We are looking at doing a fairly detailed account of what has happened per region and not going to a generalization. In other words, let me say it, we're going to department, crop - crop, village - to see exactly what has happened. Because the truth is that the impact was not uniform everywhere. Depending on the extent to which fruitfulness, flowering had evolved, it had different consequences. In others, the damage is very large, in others there is a moderate damage, others have much less damage. So we do do such a record in order to see what it is that can be done. Two. In accordance with the ELGA Regulation, the application of the necessary criteria is not uniform again, i.e. it depends on the phase of the heartbeat to say whether the damage is covered or not covered by the ELGA insurance. So there is a more detailed, more targeted, more on-the-spot approach to this issue, because that is to a large extent what the compensation or aid instruments will define if necessary. This job is in progress. We're watching it closely. Producers know that. We're close to them, we're talking. We will determine exactly what will happen in consultation with ELGA next. Our basic tool continues to remain and is the ELGA, in order to obviously cover the compensation where it is covered. Where there will be no coverage, there is a question of alternative tools and endemic targetings and mechanisms to enhance the income of olive growers. I will first leave it here, not by taking advantage of the next minute, to go through my dentext possibly with a greater comfort, if you will, if I may go to the tools, just for the unity of the answer, so as not to interrupt it in the middle of the day, as we will go to the aid mechanisms and the Hogan letter on matters raised by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u176	I'll give you the comfort because it's interesting. Mr Arachovitis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u177	Minister, the first thing you've told us is that they are being monitored by the services, that is well known because the suffering of the oil producers is great. And it is not only great because reduced olive oil is expected to be produced, which is proud, but also because the price of olive oil, but also of the edible olive already during the period we are experiencing, is very low. In other words, the total income has been compressed and a second ending blow by the heat would be catastrophic for olive cultivation, as you can see. So right now, the olive growers are waiting for an answer if you have a picture of what is covered by the ELGA and if you are going to make use of the PSEAs, which we all know the PSEAs have limited capabilities. From there to see other measures described in the letter Hogan. But they need to be financed from other sources and not just for the heater, but more generally they can be used to support olive cultivation if there is a will. How can they be exploited? We will be waiting for your answer and will be put to the crisis not only ours, but also your commitment here today to the olive growers. Because here we do not ask for a personal reason, as you can see, satisfaction. They are the producers outside who are also pushing us and you because they are pushing real income. Another year, then, with reduced incomes, you understand that it has a great impact on olive production and the economy. I would remind you that since September, October, the messages for a reduced price, both in olive oil and in edible olive, began to appear. In the olive-growing regions, the consistency has been seen in the purchasing power of consumers and in shops, peaking on holiday days, where the olive-producing shops have said they have been one of the worst years in recent years. This is evidently related to purchasing power. Also, in the last few days, what producers have been saying is that purchasing demand has stopped precisely because of fear of what income will be in the next year. So all this is because it is linked. Oil production needs support. We expect to hear your commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr Arachovitis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the commitments Mr Arachovitis expects to make, and by expressing and interpreting - I am not saying - the anguish, indeed, of the olive growers, I think I told you the best I could tell you about today. Because the rest is obviously dependent on the development of the findings and the situation we find in the field. Therefore, I cannot answer any more until this process has been completed in the field. After all, it would be completely irresponsible and unresponsible to tell you anything specific, that is, in this region, we will do this, in the other region, when this is a process that is continuing and evolving. However, because you have opened up more general issues and because you come from an oil-producing region and you have also financed the Minister for Rural Development, it may be enough to say how you dealt with it - to teach me, in this sense, and to test myself from your action - similar requests that you had in 2018 in your area and how you strengthened the olive growers there, how much you gave them. Because that's what happened. And because the answer is zero - you gave them zero - I told you I wouldn't do what you did. We will therefore, as far as possible, try to deal with the issue and all the problems that are created. You referred to something else, which you told Mr. Tsipras to say. And we've talked about it. But I saw Mr. Skourlet. Reproduce it. I am referring to the Hogan letter, following your letter on the problems of olive production. I have told you - and I understand - that ten months later there is no point in making a controversy about what you and we have done, provided that you do not. I never put it on my own. As long as you do not raise the issues against each other, I never come to tell you: “Why did you do this? Why did you do that? Why did you do the other?" I'm not saying it. But you say to me: "But you know the letter Hogan was brought to me after actions." Now, do you not put it? You put it. It's not my fault now. I couldn't do any different. You guys are causing me to this. So now let's go to the Hogan letter, which is your answer to the problem of olive oil production. In short, there has been a problem of olive oil production in your day and you are addressing a letter with some information, relatively attached, in order to ask for the European Commission's support on this matter. Firstly, of course you did not receive any aid. In other words, you have raised a bad precedent here. Second Issue: What does he answer you? You send him a letter and you say to him: 'Would you give us help for what we're suffering from?' And he sends you a letter and answers: 'You have the opportunity to use national funds.' So, what's coming and he's telling you? "Be well! Thank you very much. Go to the state budget and if you have money, pay." That's what Hogan says. Then it gives you an update. The information that makes you aware is about the tools that you have as Minister at your disposal. Mr Arachovitis, I hope that you did not need the information from the Commissioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u180	I'll tell you why...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u181	That you knew the legal possibilities you had to support the producer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u182	If you'll excuse me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u183	Don't interrupt him, please. He didn't interrupt you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u184	Would you give me a minute later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u185	I won't give you a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u186	Did you expect the Commissioner to inform you of the legal tools you have at your disposal? I did not expect that from the Commissioner. I know the legal tools at my disposal to support me. But now, in order to be generally informed, what are the legal tools that the Commissioner points to you that you have at your disposal? The de minimis. The de minimis you know how much money it is. Do you think that de minimis will meet the need to strengthen olive production? Oh, no. We agree on this, which is why you have never used it, and logically it is in this sense. It goes on to say: ‘To be granted under the guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring non-financial undertakings in difficulty’. There, he says: "We can separate guarantees of loans or loans at a minimum interest rate and must be limited to the amount...". So loans! Your suggestion is to give the olive growers a loan? Let me get this straight. The third tool you have, the promotion framework and the simple promotion programmes. That's what you know they're running and anyway they do. There is therefore nothing more to do with this. But I'm telling you something else. You, he says, provide optional coupled support. How about this? Shall we do it? The optional coupled support, as you know, Mr Arachovitis, has been exhausted as a cap and has a limit of 10% of total direct payments. This specifies a total amount of EUR 182 million for 2019. This is the total amount of aid. What products are supported by these 182 million, by your own decision? Rice, durum wheat, beef, industrial tomatoes, oranges, peaches, seeds, asparagus, seedlings, sugar beet, sheep and goatmeat, nuts, Corinthian raisins, apples. From the livestock sector, special rights for cattle and special rights for ovine and caprine animals, legumes, proteins for fodder, proteins for pests. These were made in your decision to be linked aids. Do you want to put the olive? Do you want us to put the oil in place to strengthen it? With what amount? Do you want in oil, which has about three hundred thousand tonnes, to put a kilo of EUR 0.50 per kilo of aid, or EUR 150 million? You want to tell me and who are we going to cut off to give the 150 million euros to oil? I hear suggestions. I'm ready for consultation. Because I hear you are fighting for the issue of ovine and caprine animals. Do you want to cut off the EUR 35, 50 and 40 million of ovine and caprine animals and put them in oil? Because that's how it works. It's not on top. It's in that amount. I have now said to ovine and caprine animals because it has a lot of support, otherwise we must cut them all off to get the EUR 150 million out of oil. That's what Mr. Hogan told you. And the last thing he has told you is programmes to support the olive oil and table olive sector. That's what the Minister has at his disposal. The other option that exists is what I am trying to activate in the case of Crete, as you know, and the dossier is being delivered now, where it actually invokes climate change, to support a request to strengthen the European budget rather than the national budget. So with these tools on the table, I actually answer you, we will do our best to support olive oil production. And I am sure and tell you that there will be a balance point, but, above all - and I say again and return to the initial point of my position - the prevailing conditions on the ground and what will be done with the ELGA and exactly how the damages will be determined, in what way exactly to cover them in the right, foreseeable, fair and rational manner and to cover our producers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u188	Could I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u189	The Minister is open, open, ready for consultation. Go ahead and tell him to move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u190	I'd like them to be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u191	No, Mr. Arachovite. There are colleagues who are waiting, like Mrs Canelley, and it is time. Not provided for in the procedure. Don't embarrass me. You know things better. Please, go to the Minister and tell him. Next, the fourth, with number 770/5-6-2020, topical question from the Athens Parliamentary I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanellis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The risk of the failure of the Second Centre for Education and Advisory Support (KESY) 2nd Athens based in Agia Paraskevi due to a lack of housing". Mrs. Canelle, good evening and good week. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening and good week to everyone, and I wish the month would come out. Madam Minister, the second JCC, the Center for Education and Advisory Support is in Agia Paraskevi. It covers Agia Paraskevi, Papagos, Cholargos, Vrillessia, Penteli, Chalandri, New Psychic. Of the thirty-six and thirty-five thousand children, 30% are disabled children, children in need of special support, support and evaluation. Now what's happened? Someone needs to realize what's happened. It seems almost tragic to me to ask this question today. I shouldn't have done it. There shouldn't be a problem in the Greek state. How can I tell you? It shouldn't have been, especially in the middle of the crisis, and with what these children and their parents pulled in the middle of the crisis, with the problems that have arisen in the crisis. It was a SYRIZA initiative to build this center. It was self-evident that such a center should have been built long ago, the ERCY. It's done, but they didn't get any predictions. They didn't plan any plans on how this thing works. This is done in December 2018. Since December 2018, we have arrived, the middleman of the coronary, in July 2020 at this centre, in addition to the exaggerated scientists, teachers, teachers, all the people who do the impossible in conditions of replacement, and there is no building. They've been erected beforehand. Watch what we're talking about. For parents and children in need of evaluation and treatment - look out - we're talking about three and a half thousand children. It was in parents' clubs, in warehouses. The ERCD is broken into five - six - seven buildings. I don't know how much it is. I mean, it's incomprehensible. He's beyond logic. He's been in a process of renting a building for a year and a half. I don't want to do a micropolicy now. It would be incredibly easy for me to make micro-policy on rentals, buildings, property, state buildings, etc. It would be easy for me right now to take out five headlines and stay these lines again to forget the kids that are there. There's no building. There's nothing. I want to point out something and I want it to be heard here on the basis of this question. Honestly, I'm telling you. I want you to answer me and, if necessary, you also have to do so in your dentistry. If I can talk to you, I can explain something to you: for any other category of students, even under coronary conditions, even under epidemic conditions, there can also be a delay and we can go back a little bit further and have fifteen days and have a month - you know what I mean - to do and rotate. Let's assume we're doing this together on the basis of emergencies. To these kids, delayed evaluation? Why did I ask that question now? Why did I do it? Because September 1st is very close, and this problem must be solved on September 1st. It can't be unsolved. It does not take me to tell you that many necks and many feet can be cut off to find the solution and they must be cut - how to do it, that is - and that these people must be secured. It's not possible! Parents and children have seen that they have come to ask for themselves because there were no proper conditions. When you have to go through three teachers to make an evaluation of three specialists, and go to five different buildings, imagine what those people went through the coronary. Do we not now come to resolve the problem in the light of the situation? That's a good idea. And I may have a very nice idea to set up a very nice foundation and then I have the foundation on the papers, people on the papers, parents on the table and ratings. I have read what you have tried to do as a ministry and a coronary mediator to prioritise High School III. Here is no time to allow these children and their families to forgive us because we said 'but bureaucracy, but the building, but the money, but one, so that they can join a system that is compatible, what someone has inspired and wants to make it compatible with reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Mrs. Zacharaki, good evening, good week! You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u194	Good week! I should like to point out that after the first day of the pan-Hellenic examinations, Mrs Kanelli's very interesting question was a smooth one. I know you all have an active interest in what happened all over Greece. At least the first data from the thirteen regional directorates shows a smooth operation of the first day. Good luck with our professional high school children starting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u195	Good luck!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u196	Mrs Kanelles, I must publicly recognise your active interest in Special Education - it is time-consuming - and I know that it is not just the juncture now of this difficulty in the second CSCE of Athens. It is a multitude of areas in which I happen to serve as an employee of training there. It has increased needs, indeed, over the years, especially in the part of special learning needs, it comes and is growing. So there is, indeed - I would say - a strong point. We are all addressing this issue with due sensitivity. In dentistry I will have the opportunity - if you like - to make a small statement, without wanting to tire the House, about what has been done this year specifically for the ERCFs, and what we intend to do about the essential part of the consultation. There is an important initiative I would like to announce today. For this matter, the housing of the 2nd KESSA, you know that we have interest, we do not have competence, of course, because for the part of the housing it is legally the responsibility of the Region of Attica. But I do not want to leave anything unanswered, especially those who are currently fighting for what is happening. I would like to quote the history and what is to come, at least according to the information given to us by the competent authorities. You are right to mention in your question - and you mentioned it in the protology - that despite the establishment of the new ERC and the evolution of the old structures with Law 4547/2012, the SYRIZA government, the previous government, has made sure that it has not even established them, but has not even managed to arrange for housing. The same issue, in fact, is also addressed in the two-year pre-school education that we support, but in view of the existing halls and difficulties. So we saw the same modus operandi, the same way of operation in the ERCs. The outgoing administration of the Attica Region had started the rental process, but nothing further had been done. Two tender applications were submitted in the short term, which were checked by the relevant suitability committee. As from 19 December, according to the Committee's practice, the suitability committee considered that on the basis of the declaration it considered that the first offer by the company, the place offered by the company is therefore not appropriate because it does not meet the requirements of the scope of the declaration. What was the next step? I know it sounds procedural, but it's important to history. The offer of this company was therefore considered inappropriate and was rejected as a result of inappropriateness. The next decision, therefore, of the Economic Commission, number 15, proceeded with the procedure, stated that the leasing procedure would be with the only other time-consuming offer, which was deemed appropriate on the basis of the same practice as I mentioned. A minority invitation to tender was therefore set for 4 February. I would remind you that after 4 February there was the whole period with the coronary, there was all the delays, but the objection was preceded by the objection of the first company which had been deemed to be inappropriate, with the result that the committee decided to review the offer of the first opposition company by the suitability committee to postpone the tendering procedure set for 4 February 2020 for a period following the examination of the objection. Then, as I mentioned, we had all the delays with the lockdown and the coronary. Therefore, no measures could be taken to review the appropriateness of the property of the opposition company. And after Lockdown was lifted, the property fitness review was carried out and the conclusion is expected in the new committee's practice, so that the building rental process would be completed. In the second part I will leave the issue of the building because you have spoken of the very important part of the services. Here I would like to stress that despite the fragmentation that currently exists in the second of Athens, the services are operating with difficulty for certain, but I think I would be unfair if I hadn't praised the thirty-eight employees of the 2nd ERCY at the moment, even though this fragmentation, they are trying to bring to fruition the many demands and outstanding demands that citizens have for their children on the subject of their opinions. However, I will also come back with other moves that I think are important to mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mrs Zacharakis. Mrs. Canelle, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u198	Well, to stay within a logic, the first thing I'm telling you is that these thirty-eight who praise them is not enough to praise them. They're praised by the parents, we all praise them, they know that well. And to tell you that tomorrow he will be with all the other workers of all health facilities and services on the street at a demonstration. Because they cannot always be content with applause and good talk. I mean, it's become - especially because of the latest circumstances, you know - almost ironic. I'm not saying this personally for you. I say this more generally, even for society. One cannot be content with the good words. It's like the sugar you give the horse. A horse can't live with only a little sugar. How do we do it? So this has to end. And how will it end? Most of them need to be permanentized if not all of them. Everybody! We mean those who meet the conditions. Most of them are under continuous replacement conditions. Secondly, to make it easier - what you say - the difficulties. What's "there are difficulties"? Why do they have to get their souls out to do their job? Because it is the circumstances, not because they are indignant about the kind of work they have chosen, that they can and are able to do. So what do they need? Do they just need a building? Apparently they don't just need a building. It is, however, possible for the building not to be able to plan or place the hours, to have the appropriate form of organization of time and the provision of those to be provided to children with different problems. And if from September there is, I say, a second wave, what happens? I would therefore like three commitments from you. Firstly, you must move forward with the permanentisation of people at all costs, even exceptionally. The second thing is when the building will be opened. What has not been done and what has not been done bureaucraticly can not be about either parents or children, nor whether the companies have been smuggled between them, or whether we have had a coroner moratorium. That's none of their business. The nightmare is ahead - believe me - of September 1st, at the same time, is the organization of the life of children and parents. You know very well that on the basis of the evaluation, but also on the basis of what is provided, there are children who should go with help at school. What school are they going to go to? How are they going? Under what circumstances? How will problems be overcome? It's not just high school and exams. Good luck to all the kids who are currently in this process. And one essential issue: Scientific services cannot be overwritten by emotional charges, by exploiting recognition with an underground pity, which sometimes breaks down, in the form of tenderness to children who are disabled and in a thousand or two others. Because in the end it even undermines the work of people and the endurance of parents. Because the normalization of the building, timing, laboratory and evaluation does not find families rich or calm or surely they will have a job. These also raise the great burden of these children and have the honor and courage not to leave them out of the process of education while'spit them'. So you might also learn a lesson. So many years from the public buildings - so many buildings have been in public, don't tell me that there are no public buildings, that is, I'm going to go crazy - so many things that created the public - and the Olympics went through a thousand and so many buildings - now with the decision to be all thin, so that it's not too close to sticking around, there's no one to think that these buildings, especially for these categories of scientists and children and families, have they had to be the state, to be stable, to be data, to be modern, to be modern, to have all the comfort, to be able to serve? And you tell me you're going to rent and make a company an offer and pays the public. What's he gonna pay for all these offers with? With the workers' money. Aren't the workers paying for the state to have its own buildings for these children?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. Mrs. Zacharakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u200	So when I say that thank you, Mrs Canelley, it is not about the services currently working, it is not about the fact that there is a theoretical, if you like, gratitude. It's practical and I'll explain what it means practical. For starters, I would like to inform you that the vast majority of these people who serve at the 2nd Athens CSY are not substitutes. It is also very important that, unlike last year, in contrast to the seven hundred last year's credits for subsidizing teachers, special educational staff, to cover the needs of the CIS and EISA, this year a thousand and two hundred have been allocated. I think it's a big difference. Because I don't want to bore you with numbers, if you want me to leave them or deposit them, see how many more teachers, teachers, mathematicians, special educational staff, therapists, appropriate support teams...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u201	They'll need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u202	I'll testify to see exactly the difference. This year it seems, if you want, that interest is not theoretical. It is something that leaves the wish and goes to the feasible. As to the part of the commitment to convert rental, you realise that it would escape our responsibilities. I'm here to answer both the history, but also where we are right now. I'm saying the conclusion will be filed. Let us give the time limit requested by the Attica Region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u203	How much is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u204	In view of this dystocia that existed, I think that we are talking about in the days to have the conclusion and to proceed with the proceedings. It is given, at least in communication with Mr Patoulis and the partners, that this should no longer be an unfinished thing, which really troubles them and tortures them, because they do not want fragmented services - to be sure - especially at this time of the coronary, that we should manage the requests with another flexibility. And we did it, because, in the midst of the pandemic, the KNSS gave you electronically, I have to tell you the services with facilities that we provided and were present at the practical support of the children and at a distance. Since, however, I have committed myself to mention another initiative that is important, beyond buildings and beyond the logistical track, where I will go to the end of the answer, we are for the first time launching a programme for the creation of pilot educational evaluation protocols for students of all levels, with universal application throughout the country. What does that mean? It means there will be a uniform way of evaluating students and it is important. It was also a time-consuming request of the CFSY to have these protocols and do not create some people who are not in the field. They create special working groups, under a European programme entitled 'Preparing for accession education: Tackling challenges to legislation, education policy and in practice'. This is for the essence of the ERCF project. I think it is a good news, that is to say, the existence of the special protocols for educational evaluation. I'm going to the matter of logistics, because a building, if it hasn't been equipped, will be something that won't help the people I mentioned. In the last year, therefore, we have moved to equipment for all ERCs in the country, with five hundred and fifty new fixed computers, ninety two multi-purpose multi-purpose multi-purpose multi-purpose multi-purpose multi-purpose multi-purpose, seventy-seven exterior discs and, of course, there will be a special tender for the supply of modern rated psychometric tools, the WISC. The people who are watching from the ERCU now know what I'm talking about. In short, and in order not to bore myself, the procedures of the relevant Attica region for finding a property will therefore proceed where the services of the 2nd CSCE will be housed in total. At the same time, we are drawing up the guide to support, but also the protocols, for the essential part of the assistance of the children assessed by the ERCMs. At the same time - and we have mentioned it at other meetings of the House - we are also on the appointment of permanent teachers, but also of special teachers and assistant staff in Special Education. All of this gives all of the actions, if you want, which we are doing at the moment to really support their children and families.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u205	Are you gonna catch up on September 1st?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u206	It's a target. Do you say the metaphor, Mrs. Canelle?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u208	At least from what has been taken from the Attica Region, it is the objective of resolving this pending process of migration. And we are here, of course, to appreciate all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mrs Zacharakis. We move on to the next question, the first with number 773/5-6-2020, a topical question by Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Strengthening the structures of local government for the implementation of socially beneficial work as an alternative sentence". Mrs. Pipili, you have two minutes at your disposal. Good evening, good week.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u210	Good evening, too. Minister, the mere fact that the self-contained arrest by the Municipal Police and the ELAS on the beach of Thessaloniki of two young people who were arrested to suffocate, vandalize in a monument of the beach, in a sculpture, the fact that it was a first-line news highlights the anger and indignation of Greek citizens who firmly believe in everyday culture, for the indifference of all previous years at last to stop this scourge of vandalism of public spaces, monuments, statues, private walls or public buildings or buses, wagons of OSCE, electricity and not assembled. And the fact that hundreds of comments showed this indignation when the news was released online and I put it on my personal Facebook shows the wrath of the world. That's why I found the opportunity to present this timely question to you. Since I don't have much time, I will give you a typical example of an angry, civilised Greek woman, who wrote under the news: "It must not be a fine of 150 euros to everyone, but only clean up with toothbrush, damage, mussels, "Litsa, I love you", "Petro, you hear me", "PAO, God" and all that that is, that destroy and downgrade our everyday lives. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] And the question has to do with this positive unanimous decision from February of the Central Association of Municipalities and Greece, which finally accepts that this kind of social work should be done instead of the normal penalty. And I ask: will the Ministry of Interior support the broader planning of the cooperation between local government and the Ministry of Justice and all stakeholders, so as to implement directly Article 81 of the 2019 Criminal Code? Will the Ministry strengthen the control mechanisms so that offenders can work for the benefit of the public in public services, local authorities or non-profit unions and those who are vandalising the public space, be charged with cleaning them? That is to say, simply and practically, the penalisation of the vandals through the act and their anti-social tendency to operate in favour of the whole, without the economic resources of the municipalities being wasted for cleaning and restoring, i.e. the Greek citizen being charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u211	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, conditions are not suitable for writing "PAO, God", we Panathinajians, but we are over it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u213	I agree!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u214	Mrs Pipilis, you raise a point which is very serious. And I think that the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior is in the same direction as the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece. As is well-known, under Article 81 of the Criminal Code, the public-private penalty is now a primary penalty, so it can be imposed by the courts so that it can take place in public services and local authorities. There is a temporary suspension of this article. This was essentially the case in order to clarify the legislative framework, in particular with regard to respect for the sentence imposed on the court, that it is indeed respected. The Minister of Justice Mr. Tsiaras in January 2020 sent a letter to the CEDEFOP by congratulating or asking for intentions if they agree to include the municipalities in the programmes of social work. Indeed, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece in February 2020 unanimously decided that municipalities would like to participate in the Social Work Programme. Indeed, because it is in full agreement with what you said a moment ago, I mention examples of social benefits. It is the removal of graffiti from walls and other surfaces, the collection of waste, the decoration and cleanliness of public spaces and in general the cleanliness and veracity of the city. So we, too, not just agree, but encourage municipalities, as soon as they are allowed by the legal framework, to start accepting alternative forms of punishment. We think it's a right step, it's a step of compliance and it serves, if you want, and two reasons. The first reason is that the offender himself can conform, seeing what he did and clean up a statue, which has been vandalised, and many times there are also many offenders, for example, drug addicts, who can and join more quickly. By the way, and once you have raised this matter, I would like to stress that it is really incomprehensible to vandalise statues, especially those who have given home so much. I remember Lela Karagianni's bust to cut, beheaded, stolen the head or stolen bronze busts in order to be dived for copper. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] What I would like to say is that public work really is a valuable tool and a modern way. It was also applied in the previous period. I and the Municipality of Athens personally accepted several cases of people who were able to turn their sentence into public works and served mainly at the Homeless Foundation where they helped to feed the homeless and vulnerable groups. I think it's an alternative to serving the sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u215	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u216	I am very pleased that we have exactly the same views, not only for Panathinaikos, but more generally for the culture of everyday life with the Minister. It is a joy to say that, unanimously, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece accepted this challenge - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiras, and I can say that he accepted it because he wanted it, because we must again emphasise that it is too much weight for the municipalities to be forced to clean up and pay and waste too much money every year, given that unfortunately the same incidents are repeated many times, I think on the same level as Lella Karagiannis at Tositsa level. Here we must stress, in order for the many people to understand - you have said so, Minister, and you are quite right - that the perpetrator himself, because in the majority we are talking about children, young people, with antisocial attitudes that may be due to the bad family environment, etc., to these children themselves rightly if they are imposed - not on the toothbrush - to clean up the statue they destroyed or on the neighbor's wall, as my friend on Facebook said, there will certainly realize the cost that such a move has on the spray of sprinkles or indignation or antisocial behaviour. But, quite rightly, the CEDEFOP - you have also said so, too - has a two-way approach. Yeah, well, they're people who don't have any money and are being imprisoned with such a sentence. But, ultimately, they are neither collected nor punished and are still on the streets. So this is immediately resolved in an alternative form of punishment. So the ones you highlighted are often also people who either have psychological problems or are involved with substances. They are given the opportunity to join society through these programmes through a flexible form of punishment which at the same time has a compatible character. So the removal of graffiti, the collection of waste, the decoration and cleansing of public buildings and spaces will really be a profit not only for the ministers involved, but also a profit for themselves and fortunately and a profit for society that cannot withstand this deterioration of everyday culture and the damage that all of this brings to public and private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u217	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. One of the alternative ways in particular for graffiti is to put the walls through the social work to go through with anti-grafib materials, which has been tested and which gives a solution for a relatively long time. Moreover, the cost of repeated cleaning is too high and burdens all the public, because it is in the context of the fees. It's not the state's money, it's the city's own money they pay through PPC's reward fees. Also, an alternative way - and I imagine you will agree - is in the care and care of stray animals that some people will be able to help in social work in an area where there are shortcomings and the municipality needs help. We are already working towards modernising the legislative framework in cooperation with the relevant ministries in order to make the necessary improvements to this. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is very pleasant that the CEDEFOP sent a letter a few days ago to Mr Tsiara reminding the City Council's decision after reasonable interruption because of the pandemic and the non-responsibility of meetings and is already calling for the meeting to be scheduled in the next few days in order to close the latest details of the integration of OTAs I and II - I suppose - into the social work programme. I think that this is an important step again, I insist that the Interior Ministry, not just agrees, but encourages the municipalities themselves to accept people alternatively serving their sentence. I think that this is for the benefit of people themselves too in order to be more calm and more effective, but it is for the benefit of society itself, so that they can be reinstated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u219	If they ask you for financial support...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u220	Thank you. The following two topical questions refer to the same subject and will be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, in application of the provision in Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure. The sixth under number 785-6-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the building problems in the schools of Agaleo. The responsibilities of the Municipal Authority and the Government for any further injury.’ The third, with number 768/4-6-2020, topical question for the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Movement of Change Mr. Konstantina (Nandias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The unconscious school buildings of the Municipality of Agaleo hide risks for students, teachers, parents". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, this is a well-known matter because we have discussed it several times before. We have also discussed the issue of earthquakes in Haidari, but also the specific issue with schools in Aegaleo. But we have a tragic incident. On June 1st...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u222	It was almost tragic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u223	Incidentally enough, when we have a mother seriously injured by a fall of window with her two children and one also injured. The shock children experienced in seeing their mother is quite tragic, Minister. That's what happened at a school that isn't even in earthquakes. Done at the 5th grade on the first day of graduation after the coronary and incarceration. The earthquake of 17 July was the victim of four other buildings, not that one. The situation in educational infrastructure in Aigaleo is really bad. I will submit to the minutes the two complaints from both parents and guardians' associations, as well as from the Association of Educational Aegeans. The point is that the area was not declared in an emergency after the earthquake, despite the great deterioration in public infrastructure. At the moment, the municipality temporarily arranged building problems by concentrating sections on schools. But we have a long delay in repairing the buildings and we want to know from your side, because this delay is happening and where the repair procedures in the buildings are. At the same time, the mayor himself denounces that the needs for building repairs are 500,000 per year and receives from the public 120,000 per year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for - and I call for your commitment - to this municipality that has been so disproportionately affected by this earthquake that there is exceptional financing, precisely to address these needs. Of course, however, you should look at the whole question of the financing of the municipalities for school buildings. It is clear that as a central administration you provide them with a quarter of what the needs of school buildings are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u225	Finally, I want you to tell us where this repairs is going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u226	Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u227	Minister, I come back to the building issue that has to do with the schools in West Athens and especially the schools in Aigaleo. In fact, this timely question of mine is being discussed today in conjunction with Mr Arsenis's question on a flagrant day, on the day of the pan-Hellenic examinations. And on this occasion, I think I would like us all to wish good success to all children and their families in this very great battle which they are giving under adverse conditions, Minister. Previously, the unacceptable and indeed tragic issue that happened has been mentioned, trying to get a teacher to open the window at a school in Agaleo, and that is to fall and seriously hurt a passing mother and her children. This certainly, Mr Mitsotakis, is not a picture of the regularity that he wants to give and bring to Greece, as Mr Mitsotakis said before taking over power. Do not forget, Minister, that Mr Mitsotakis chose, as he had told us beforehand, to go down to western Athens and for notable reasons, but also to show that he supports a world that has and faces great difficulties. The fact that there are such incidents and that there is certainly no special support for the agency on the part of the government. So the situation in the Western Athens schools infrastructure is not good. This school is not from the earthquakes. But there are earthquakes in which you know that there are huge delays. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. I have referred to you with numerous topical questions and references and, unfortunately, we see the major issue of the pathogen, if you want, of the political system, that is to say, that there should be a transfer of responsibilities and a co-responsibility, if you want, on many issues, such as, for example, the Ministry of Interior for the financing of the Ministry of Development for the ESDP and the Ministry of Education on all issues. You understand that this leads to huge delays, with the result that the educational community of West Athens and especially of Aigaleo is in an incredible state of insecurity. So you understand that there must be clear timelines on the part of your Ministry, but also of all the co-legislative ministries, for what you intend to do about building infrastructure in these schools, both to restore the damage from the earthquakes in July - unfortunately, we will still have an incredible stagnation, we will be entering a new school year and we will be discussing the same question - as much as I would like to ask you - as regards preventive control by the municipality or the Ministry of Education in relation to post-accident school buildings, what security measures have been taken in school buildings after two months of closed schools because of the pandemic. Finally, Minister, because I am aware of your personal interest in the schools in the region, I would like you to commit yourself personally and tell us that you will be assisting effectively with a specific timetable for resolving this very serious issue. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u228	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. It is an issue that we had discussed in January, if I am not mistaken. Mr Arsenis had asked a question, and then Mrs Giannakopoulou had asked a question, so we are discussing it again today to see where we are. It's two different issues. The first issue is what action has been taken by the Municipality of Aigaleo to remedy the problems that had arisen from the earthquake. The second issue is what is going on from now on and how to heal definitive problems that exist, not only in Aigaleo, but in many areas of Greece about the school roof. For the first part, as I told you the other time, after the earthquake took place, first-class checks were carried out by the technical services of the Municipality of Aigaleo, as well as for the building infrastructure in all the public buildings affected. There indeed - if I remember correctly - four schools had been registered as dangerous. Some of them have moved forward in order to function and some of them need to be built up in order to build up infrastructure. A school cannot be built from one day to the next, nor can there be any anti-Semitism shielding and improvement works - Mr. Spirtzis knows them much better than me - within a very short period of time. As regards what Mr Arsenis said, in an emergency situation, an area is issued on the basis of a regional proposal from the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. So the Ministry of Interior in this part is not directly involved. We - and I must say from the previous government that the "Philodimos II" programme also had a funding for the improvement of school units, the Municipality of Aigaleo had received a sum of about 300,000 euros, except for regular funding - and we proceed with the new "Antonis Tritsis". You will wait two days, there will be a special invitation to improve the municipality's building stock and especially to improve the earthquake shielding of the buildings around the country, because there are many old schools in the province, but also within urban tissues and western Attica obviously. Where appropriate, the necessary interventions will be carried out. The municipalities will be able to submit applications to join the invitation. What this government will do is that, in cooperation with the municipalities and after seeing the provision for the number of pupils in the next six years, we can count on six years - if you want - for the primary or twelve years, what the real needs will be in primary and high schools. There, then, we can see in collaboration with self-government and demographic data in the area if and if necessary, school units. There the government will always try to finance them either through the PPP - they had also been made in previous years - either through the PSUR or through the Antonis Tritsis programme. In any case, we will provide a special basis for the anti-Semitism of schools and the improvement of their image in the near future.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have not committed yourself to the problem, which continues to exist in Aegleo. We said that we have a building that was outside the quake - the four - which, due to a lack of maintenance, left a whole window. We have an earthquake that has been settled using the funds from the 'PHILITIS II'. Direct housing needs have been arranged in other buildings, in other schools, the problems each of us can imagine. These are rough solutions to solve the immediate problem, and these solutions can certainly not be withstandable in time. On the contrary, the buildings affected by the earthquake have not proceeded with their repairs, while there are buildings, such as this 5th Municipality, which fell the window on the unfortunate mother and her child, which needs immediate maintenance. You have not committed yourself to giving money directly from the ordinary budget, as you have done in other cases to the municipalities, when there is a specific problem. I would like a commitment of your own to the Municipality of Aigaleo on this particular situation. We had a small earthquake, but it led to great problems focused on the building potential of primary and secondary education. So we are focusing on this problem and we want there to be funding. I would like your commitment to that, and I would also like you to tell us where the procedure for the immediate repair of buildings is now stuck. We would like to know what is to be done to speed up, because it is parents' request, teachers' request, the request of children and the municipality itself. We are interested in responding, we would like a commitment to additional funding and to clarify the landscape, what needs to be done immediately, so that repairs do not take place in six years, but in a visible period of time, which will be useful for children who are currently in schools. I am telling you again, there has been a good effort to resolve the immediate problem of relocation with temporary solutions which create difficulties in the educational process. These solutions make sense for a year and a half. From there on, when this situation comes to date and is permanent, it is deeply problematic and devalued for children and the educational process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u232	Thank you. Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I understand and I think we all understand that many issues, like this issue, cannot be solved from one day to the next. In particular, in the midst of the pandemic crisis, which we have been through, and unfortunately, there is a possibility that there will be a second wave of pandemic from September. But you must understand that the endurance of the world, especially in areas that are even more financially affected, is now exhausted and is being exhausted even more when it sees that there can be no elementary questions on the part of the state. To take our children safely to school, to safe schools, is a primary obligation of the state. How can we say it in other words? How can it be understood? And that is not what I say, Minister, that it is your responsibility solely. I told you here we have the pathogen, which we have a load of conspiracy. It's RIS, it's education, it's you. But in this world, can you tell me who will give? You must be able to provide the money, which you need, infrastructure and what you need to do, as the Ministry of the Interior - it is your responsibility to do - in order to resolve this whole issue. That is why we are calling for a specific timetable. Minister, we were here discussing a timely question on 9 February and still nothing has been done. I told you again, we will enter the new school year and still nothing will be done, and this world will wait and have completely lost its trust in the Greek state. Please and I give you your attention. The procedures need to be initiated much faster. You need to make an even greater effort, with all the co-competent ministries on the question of building infrastructure, the schools in western Athens that faces so much more problems than the rest of Athens. What can we do? This is the reality, there have been no corresponding sections in either the northern or southern part of Athens, but in the western part of Athens. So show greater sensitivity and solve this issue at last, without having to come and make a third and fourth and fifth topical questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u234	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u235	From the information we have, to be clear, the municipality of Eigaleo has been auctioning the works. The technical service of the municipality of Aigaleo is the head office, they auction the works. The problem of project delays is well known, which has become even worse during the coronary period, as there were no more personnel, many had been licensed for special purpose or were in vulnerable groups and did not work and generally went back some things. For example, the tender we are discussing, the investigation of work on the control of concrete possession and the control of ferrous equipment by school-based organisations is being auctioned on 30 June.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u236	For what body?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u237	Technical service. Some things have to be delayed and I imagine that Mr Spirtz will agree that there are some things to be done, from the application of Law 4412, which is the law on the competitive framework of public works, to speed up procedures, but always according to the absolute rule of transparency. A request from the Municipality of Aigaleo for additional funding has not come to the Ministry of Interior. The Municipality of Haidari, for example, requested in August, received a sum against it. The Municipality of Aigaleo has not submitted such a request. Possibly because of the change in the municipality, probably because it didn't have to be? But now that we are talking about disbursing money until any project is done there will be a period which cannot be accelerated any further. Unfortunately, there are problems and I really think that one of the most basic obligations of any organised state is to have a safe school roof for children and take children to school safely and return as safe as possible. That is why we will lay the basis for the improvement of school buildings, give the basis for the building of young people and emphasise the removal of any dangerous outbreaks that may be present in courtyards or in schools, so that things can be made safer. Indeed, I personally understand both the anxiety and the problem that students’ parents have in this school. We are trying with the forces that we have to help the municipalities, we are in constant contact with them, and any municipality needs the support of the Ministry in the context of the possibilities will receive it. Again I say to you, the Municipality of Aegaleo has answered the question several times and has done several things after the earthquake in specific actions and improved schoolrooms and competition notices, unfortunately everything takes some time to do so, that we will try to stop it from continuing to perpetuate this situation. Thank you both very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I would like the floor to clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u239	No, that possibility does not exist in parliamentary control. When you were Minister, you were enlightening. We move to the first with number 5700/10-4-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP I East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Christos Spirtzi, to the Minister of the Interior, on "Support measures for self-employed, professional and financial obligations towards OTAs and additional social and health protection measures for workers and workers through OTAs." The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr. Lebanon. Here, Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to make it clear in my time now what I wanted to say. Ms. Giannakopoulou and Mr. Arseni, they are not the earthquake buildings, even the schools, of the Ministry of Interior. It is the Ministry of Infrastructure and there is a separate amount there for such needs. Wake up the Ministry of Infrastructure a little like a government. The country and the Ministry of Infrastructure will be all right in its world. And make ministerial decisions on natural disaster issues faster. He will now hear them as government, it is not Mr Lebanese's fault. Minister, at the end of March, although it is not customary, because of the pandemic we have made a number of dozens of proposals, we have sent them to you as well, and have tabled four questions, relating to the four sections of the proposals that we have submitted to you for the Ministry of the Interior, both for freelance professionals and for workers, for the needs of local government agencies and for the "Help at Home". Today they come because you did not respond in writing, both of them being topical for the free traders and for the workers in the municipalities, and it is clear that the proposals that most of them have made have not been adopted. In particular, for your free professionals, we have proposed a series of actions. You see what the results of the government's fragmentary measures are, but even within the Ministry of the Interior of the municipalities, the proposals we made were not terrible to adopt. For example, we have proposed exempting usage fees from bank seats with exceptional financial support from the municipalities. Instead of what we have proposed, they made the arrangements for more space and chartered this, it does not apply to the majority of businesses. The same applies to municipal charges that are minimal and very low in receipts from the municipalities. The same applies to suspending the payment of rents in municipal shops and in public buildings and a number of other proposals for freelance professionals, but also for workers. Because we suggested that the people who gave the battle to the front line should not say, as Mrs Kanelle said before, good words. They must somehow be vindicated by the state, rewarded. It's not just the extraordinary financial allowance we proposed. It is also a number of other proposals: to ensure that there is no pooling of workers within the public administration and OTA offices. It has not even been done by the Ministry of Interior now that all activities are reinitiating. Also, the coverage of family needs for coronary workers outside their home. And a number of other suggestions. The questions we ask are: 'What measures do you propose for both the workers and the free traders, do you intend, even now, to adopt them or what forecasts do you make for the second wave, although there is?'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Spirtzi, we as the Ministry of the Interior since the first moment the pandemic was manifested were in constant contact with the two collective bodies of self-government, both with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece and with the Association of Greek Regions, in order to coordinate our actions for the proper management of the pandemic. In the context of this, then, there has been a series of legislation, by means of a legislative act, which were ratified in accordance with the Constitution, and which have had a number of provisions which exactly served this purpose. In particular: First, PPC was able to cover any reductions in the remuneration fees mainly through the possibility of transferring credit from the non-reimbursable part. This amount could be provided by the Ministry of Interior to the municipalities, which will be returned in seventy-two instalments. It was the same arrangement, by the way, for JHA, where we are actually facilitating cases where water bills were not paid throughout the country. Secondly, we have given an initial grant of more than EUR 10 million to cover the first costs. Immediately after the adoption of a new decision giving more than EUR 2.5 million to deal with the pandemic, especially at Roma camps. Up to EUR 1 million we have given food for stray animals, which also suffered in the face of the pandemic. Subsequently, according to what the Minister had committed and generally the Ministry, an exceptional grant of 75m euros was granted to all municipalities in the country, about three quarters of a CFP, in order to solve the cash problem of the municipalities for the first time. We said something very - very simple, especially about the municipality's finances, that any additional losses of revenue have been incurred by the municipalities and, depending on the category of municipalities, we will cover them if they occur. So, because, for example, the Municipality of Agraphon and the Municipality of Hersonissos of Crete will have different revenue losses - one is mountainous, the other is tourist - we will obviously calculate the losses that each municipality will have and if there are further losses from this amount received by the municipalities, we will obviously cover them in order to ensure their operation. Especially for the measures taken during the krone, the first thing we did was to exempt from municipal electricity charges companies that had been suspended. The second thing we did and applied horizontally for all those who rent shops and have consequences because of the coronary is a 40% reduction in the rent. You said that rents should be completely zeroed. It's a reasonable requirement, but I have a personal question. I'm the one who rents the municipality to get rid of the rent, my next door to a private investor not to get rid of the rent. There would be a discreet treatment and I think it would not be fair. The third thing we did, especially for school cans, was to give them a discharge for the school-closed time. We give them the opportunity to terminate the contract by 30 June, without any reduction in the guarantee, if they consider that next year will not be profitable. We are also giving them the possibility of extending for an extra lease year, if they want it and if the contract expires. In the cemeteries, which were also due to a coronary, we closed down, and there we suspended the rental payments. For the bank seats, not only did we say 'take more space' in order to develop at least the same number of bank seats, but we said that, where this is not possible, it will be 50% lowering the end of the bank seats. I note that in this particular case we have received special attention to ensuring accessibility and mobility within the city. We also allow tenants to extend the rental contract from the municipality for another year, since it expired until 31 December. So if I have rented a shop from the municipality for example and the contract ends until 31 December, I will be able to continue for one year and extend my contract. Feedingstuffs at kindergartens. We suspended them for as long as they were closed. And there, and wherever necessary, the money will be taken into account in the losses they will have. In conclusion, especially for the workers, I would like to say that the government has done one thing. Since the beginning of the crisis, he has heard the experts. They were recommended to the Government and this was implemented. We did the same in public reopening. There are certain distances to be observed, there are specific protection and precautionary measures and there are specific instructions to be followed. On this subject, with continuous circulars taken out by the Ministry of the Interior's General Secretariat of the Ministry of Human Resources, it informs all services in order to ensure that the workers' safety and the safety of the workers are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u244	Minister, you're not answering me. I understand why you're not answering me. We talked about specific things. Do you want to talk about local government finances? Let's talk. The CEDEFOP is right-wing, and the majority of the Mayors of New Democracy are overwhelming. Contact them, see the last meeting yesterday, to see what they say and what people ask for the finances of the municipalities. Obviously, they do not reach the EUR 70 million that you have predicted. There is no account at the moment of what has cost municipalities and local government as a whole the crisis of the coronary. Needs are, however, running. At another point, we should talk about it and say it publicly and as you wish. After all, we have good cooperation. I believe that you recognize that too. And we recognize it. But here we are talking about two specific accusations. One is freelance professionals. I would like to say that in the speech made by the Prime Minister, in his frequent proclamations but also in his speeches, in support of the middle-class, he said that the New Democracy is the middle-class party and requires politicians not only to insult their intelligence but also their dignity. I will not be tempted to talk about "Syllics Syllics", but all the measures taken by the Ministry of Finance, the overwhelming majority, do not touch it. At least five things local government can give, help municipalities give them. That's what we're saying. Obviously, we didn't think the rents would be zero. We only said in the period when it's closed. We said suspension of payment and settlement for twenty-four months thereafter or forty-eight, what they can do to keep the shops from closing. Hundreds of thousands of businesses have been closed, Minister, and two hundred and fifty thousand jobs have been lost because of the coronary. Especially in tourist municipalities, these figures are much larger. I come to the question of workers in the municipalities. In his report, the Prime Minister, when he was trying to conserve the outcome of the attempt to deal with the crisis, said that we will finally say good morning to women and men who will empty the canisters of our neighborhood and that they will not be invisible. Aren't they invisible now? Mrs. Canelle said so before. Just nice words? Shouldn't we help these people with something? We have made so many proposals here. Thirty sentences we made. Can't you give them the allowance? Let's see all the rest. But what do you predict? Privatisation of all municipal services. Tomorrow they have mobilised the Municipality of Pentelis to privatise the road cleaning. We believe that with greater diligence on the part of the government the dogmas of neoliberalism that left on public health, should leave them on other aspects of the public sector and, above all, on local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the part of the CEDEFOP is concerned, what we said as a ministry - and we will say it again - is that we, in cooperation with the CEDEFOP, will support the municipalities financially on the basis of the actual losses of revenue. The crisis, the economic crisis and, in particular, the impact on the tourist regions are currently in full progress. I was in Santorini this weekend, where I actually heard the anxiety of tourist professionals, who estimate that there will be a drop in tourist current this year, expected, which we do not know yet how much it will be. So what we are saying is very clear. It is that on the basis of actual accounting data, we will cover the loss of revenue that the municipalities have. And why are we doing this? Because all losses are neither uniform nor equivalent. Other needs have each municipality, others have the other. Otherwise it's the money mix of the alpha municipality, otherwise of the beta. So, by giving about 90 to 100 million in total to self-government, we have been covering precisely this cash breath. There are cases of PPC accounts that have not been paid because of a crisis. However, this does not mean that they will not be paid in six months or eight months or in one year. At some point - it had happened in the past - PPC's accounts are normalised in relation to earlier payments. There will be a liquidity problem there. Perhaps sometime this will be replaced in the future. We say, then, yes, because the bankruptcies, for example, which have been zero over three months, will cover the losses so that the municipalities do not have a problem. It was about 28 million, if I'm not mistaken, in the whole country in 2019. We watch month-months the information the municipalities have uploaded to the Observatory. For example, the losses of some of the taxes and contributions from own revenues are about EUR 35 million in total government over the year so far, i.e. the first quarter of 2020. That is exactly what we are in cooperation with the CEDEFOP to cover the losses that exist. And we will cover them for one reason: because we consider that local government was at the forefront of dealing with pandemic and heretics and workers. Indeed, the Prime Minister has said so, too, and they have given a superhuman struggle to prevent the spread of the pandemic. That is why we support self-government. That's why we're trying to be close to them. That's why we're in close cooperation. He heard about two CFPs. That's the request for self-government. The two CFPs are about 220 million additional aids. We've given 100, probably need so much more. If so much more needs to be done, this amount will be given if it is real and it will be distributed fairly per municipality to the loser. I read somewhere that we are talking about 2 billion, that so much is the extra funding for the municipality. Obviously, these figures do not exist, because 2 billion is the total of the CAP for one year. No one's put that number on. I have read it in only one newspaper, which at regular intervals says it. To be clear, the Home Office will cover the revenue losses. With regard to the part of the expenses, the municipalities have not yet sent any accounting data. About fifty-five of the three hundred thirty-two have been sent. The number is purely indicative and concerns small municipalities. It doesn't make any sense to say it, but it's in a one-digit number of millions. However, once all the municipalities have sent, there will also be a balance of revenue and expenditure, and we will obviously be looking at a code - code for all the municipalities in the country - to give them the amount that they need, so that they do not have a problem and do not suffer the consequences of the coronary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-15-S1-commons.u248	With the consent of this House at 19.49' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 16 June 2020 at 14.00, on the subject of the House's legislative work, in accordance with the special agenda that has been distributed.
