ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: "Integration into Greek Law of Directives (EU) 2016/800, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/1919, 2014/57/EU, ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments of the n. 3663/2008 (A' 99) to implement Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions.’; Also, the Ministers for Tourism, Economic, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religion, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, tabled a draft law on 15-5-2020: "Special forms of tourism and provisions for tourism development". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: “Integration into Greek legislation of the Directives (EU) 2016/800, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/19, 2014/57/EU, ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments to the Act of Accession”. 3663/2008 (A' 99) to implement Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions.’; The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 May 2020 to discuss the draft law at two meetings. Today's sitting will be discussed and the bill will be passed in principle. The meeting on 21 May 2020 will discuss and vote on the articles of the bill as a unity, amendments and the entire bill. In today's debate, the rapporteurs and the special speakers will be present for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes in accordance with Rules 64, 96 and 97 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I therefore propose that the parties be represented in proportion to their parliamentary power, with a circle of forty-one speaker as follows: Twenty-two speakers from New Democracy, twelve speakers from SYRIZA, three speakers from the Change Movement, two speakers from the Communist Party of Greece and one speaker from the Greek Solution and the Mera25 respectively. Speaking time will be seven minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Andreas Koutsouba, in view of the fact that the day is overshadowed today and at 17: 00, we have parliamentary control, and immediately afterwards we have a question for Members, I would ask that time be strictly respected, especially for today - because, as I said, time is too pressing - so that the Bureau does not come to the difficult position of interrupting or making comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are introducing to our plenary the bill of the Ministry of Justice, which concerns the incorporation of five directives, the fuller incorporation of a provision, the ratification of a memorandum and some other provisions relating to the functioning and administration of justice. Before I move on to analyse the positions of the government majority, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group on the content of the bill, I would like to say that it is a bill which has been discussed over 12 hours, with all the procedures provided for in the Rules of Procedure, in the form of regularity. That means returning to normality. And, of course, after this difficult two-month period that the country has taken, and where we have seen that there are many things more serious that should concern us in the political scene of the country and in the field of political confrontation, I would like to believe that, apart from normality, we will also come back to political confrontation, as was written yesterday in an article, but in a mild political confrontation, with rules, mutual respect, which will be seen in front of the future, it will be creative and we will all try with our presence, with our participation in contributing creatively to the operation on the one hand of parliamentary democracy and on the other to better legalisation. As I said before, the bill consists of eight chapters, and the first five concern the incorporation of Community directives. They are Community directives that are an obligation of the State, an obligation which is implemented, unjustifiedly, several times, late and has the effect of having a fine or always being subject to the risk of imposing a fine because of the delay. But it is not just a fine which ultimately burdens either the state or the European budget and ultimately the European citizen and the Greeks. The most important thing is that it poses problems in the proper application and interpretation of law, problems in the administration of justice. I will say it on the road, because it is not a particular subject, it is not a problem. I think in this bill it turned out that all the wings contributed with their observations and their suggestions to make a better bill. And the Minister with his attitude - I stress two phrases: "I am open to all of you to listen to your proposals" and "Come where we have various micro-observations and we can correct them, find a common place" - has shown that parliamentary democracy has worked perfectly well, the intention of the Minister and the Government has emerged in the best way. So it's not just fines. We must provide, in order to prevent situations which can create problems in the political scene of Greece, but also in general in our criminal or political, procedural system. With regard to the three directives, which are of no particular interest: they relate to an incomplete provision which wanted more harmonisation with the law. It's done with a layout. There is also a harmonisation of national legislation with Law 3363/2008 and a technical matter. And of course there is the ratification of the Memorandum between Greece and Cyprus, of cooperation between the relevant ministries on matters of exchange of information or - if you want - of administrative care or other cooperation at scientific level. I don't think anyone disagrees. I said earlier that there was no political controversy in this bill, because obviously there were no ideological, political differences or perceptions or dilemmas to be confronted. However, there have been comments. I would like to convey - in my personal view, but also many of my colleagues in the New Democracy - a number of concerns, both in terms of the wording of certain provisions or - if you like - the omission that we can contribute more than that, as long as it is not forbidden by Union law. I come to the most important, in the first provision, of Directive 800/2016. What about this directive? Procedural guarantees for minors shall be provided. I don't think anyone disagrees on this. The introduction of minimum rules strengthens confidence in the system of criminal justice between Member States, because a lack of sufficient confidence has been established and demonstrated. It is therefore necessary to incorporate it, because at the same time, the mutual recognition of decisions on criminal law is also improved. To sum up, I should like to say that these procedural guarantees - we will be talking more specifically about the debate on the question of the right of minors to a fair trial, the representation of lawyers, the right to legal aid, the priority of the trial, and the equal treatment of the issues that concern them. The main in a modern era and in a civilized country is related to their detention areas. The second Directive, 2017/1371, refers to fraud, to offences, to considerable criminal offences against the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, its ratification is a typically required procedure. This directive and its incorporation ensures that all Member States have harmonized effective and proportionate provisions on the criminal protection and punishment of worthwhile criminal conduct against the Union. The European Union is making a constant effort on common criminal rules. It seeks to upgrade the Greek system of criminal protection of the European Union's financial interests by making it more coherent, effective, while respecting the principles of legality, legal certainty and proportionality. I note the word 'proportionality'. I refer here, Mr President, to you. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, and since the basis of the offences is our procedural system and the Criminal Code, in the articles on European fraud, fraud concerning VAT, resources, income and revenue, we can add, as has been added and the basis of the criminal procedural system is provision 405-406 of the Criminal Code, for exemption - in the event of practical repentance - of the wrongly paid or wrongly collected. Then there should be the defendant's right. Because it cannot prevail under any circumstances against the protection of the defendant's intention of the European Union. However, I can tell you that neither the earlier directive nor Law 2803/2000 provided for the discharge. But up to 4,000 ECU, the Union law did not provide for the punishment of suspects or accused persons, in other words, when they had such criminally worthwhile conduct. In other words, this directive is an amendment to abolish Law 2803/2000. These provisions lead to the restructuring and strengthening of free competition, the obligation of undertakings to resolve internal control measures in order to ensure their economic action. The rules have contributed and contributed to the improvement of the European Union's management and allocation practices and assets for the benefit of the European Union's budget, the public at long last, since these resources are intended to improve the level of their lives. In other words, the arrangements contribute to improving the services of the State to the citizen and aim to protect the European Union's financial interests. There are offences, i.e. cross-border VAT fraud, with subsidies, with revenue. All of this in Article 21. That is why I say that a provision may be added there 'with exemption in the case of reimbursement of sums wrongly paid'. The incorporation of Directive 2017/541 refers to the fight against terrorism. At a time when we are living, with important events at the expense of citizens, of societies around the world, it is necessary and necessary to incorporate it immediately. It had been delayed, and had been integrated by all the states. It is therefore necessary to incorporate immediately. This directive seeks to share information, to work together for two years to prevent and combat terrorism and terrorist acts in all forms throughout the world. In other words, this directive adapts our national law to the obligations arising from this directive by introducing independent offences as described in the draft law. Directive 1919/2016 concerns legal aid and legal aid to the criminal proceedings and the procedure for the execution of European arrest warrants. Ladies and gentlemen, in the three days of discussions in the committee it has been shown that a bill, a law, if it is good, can be easily interpreted by judges by lawyers from all those involved in a trial, if it is applicable, is judged in practice. It has, however, been shown that we can with serious debate, leaning on the law, always correct it for the better. And that is why the Minister is here, until the last day, listening to the proposals and comments of all of us and correcting them. The last chapter of the draft law refers to the other provisions. What are the other provisions? They are about the functioning and administration of justice. It is a grid of provisions without ideological and political dilemmas or political confrontation. There is a different approach or, if you like, a different way that each of us can see solving the problems. But I think that, in these remarks made by fellow lawyers and other professionals, after a good analysis of the provisions, we can contribute, in particular, to the right to legal aid and the right to help. We can all contribute to better, more effective legislation and thus lead to better implementation of this law. I would like to point out that in the other provisions, a number of differentiations have been made. The suspension of criminal prosecution for offences for which a sentence is provided for up to one year and the non-implementation of penalties for up to six months is mentioned. The explanatory statement states that the great accumulation of cases in the courts has forced us every five years - perhaps earlier - to introduce such a provision in order to alleviate courts. But I insist on my point of view. If you would like, Minister, listen to her and your partners. As a fighting lawyer, I am trying to best implement the law we are voting on here. I have often been unable to apply it. We can, if you want to alleviate the courts from cases which have nothing to do with criminal justice or political justice. There are other offences that can best offer, help to alleviate justice from cases. I've explained to you in private. When the time comes, I will make a detailed presentation of these. I am referring here to the main incision made by the other provisions. It's about the Judiciary School. It's an incision. It is not just that conditions, growth, the development of society, of affairs, the burden of serious cases are imposing it. No, because we don't have good peacekeepers at some point and it just sounded for a while. We just want them to be better prepared. I think we want better justice, better judges. That is where they are intended to join the School of Judges. There are some other provisions that have been discussed. I think that, until the end of this debate, these provisions can be better done. They don't have anything different from other precedents. We shall then try to listen to colleagues. For my part, as rapporteur for the majority, not only personally but on behalf of the parliamentary group, I am ready to hear your remarks. I want to be positive, too, on whatever observation from the side of the Anti-Population, the Greater and the Olives, is inclined toward a better piece of legislation. I shall now close, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. We are now integrating these directives after an unjustified delay. As has been said many times by a colleague, who I do not see here, we have nine hundred convictions for delaying the transposition of directives. I would like to say this. We must all realise that and we must all contribute, government and opposition, that these directives must be incorporated in a timely and prompt manner. This will make national law work better, because we will not have any differentiation of national and Union law. We will not have to legislate National law and come back a year later to do something different. It is urgent for all these reasons, for the better administration of justice. I recommend the vote of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u4	I thank Mr Koutsouba, mainly for his time. I hope that all the rapporteurs and special speakers will keep the time. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Kalamatianos Dionysios, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an in-depth debate on the draft law - which has the characteristics of a multiplier, due to the diversity and diversity of the provisions - during the committee's meetings. First of all, I repeat that it has not yet been answered because 1/3 of the provisions to be adopted have never been consulted. In fact, last Friday, an amendment was tabled, adding five provisions to the draft submitted. You therefore insist that you do not keep your own legal textbook. The non-compliance with the provisions advertised by you for good legalization seems to be your firm practice, so that these declarations remain empty letter. We insist that we should now discuss measures for a smooth transition to the new situation in justice, for measures to ensure the proper and secure functioning of the courts' services, for measures to support lawyers in order to cope with unprecedented difficulties. We have tabled an amendment, which provides for the reintroduction of cases which have been cancelled, after the opening of the courts, without delay and additional costs. We are thus showing to the legal world of the country and to the workers in the courts that we are interested in and proposing substantial solutions for practical matters. These issues, of course, concern and afflict the functioning of justice. Unfortunately, the government does not prove that he is a charity and a supporter of the country's legal world. A characteristic case is the well-known theme of vouchers. The lawyers of the country were initially obliged to attend a teletraining course in order to receive a grant of EUR 600, not least, since the European Commission, at the end of March, had stressed that the sum of EUR 800 could be paid directly to the beneficiaries. You could channel them into a long-term unemployed training programme, for example, which needs it. In fact, many lawyers received this allowance of EUR 600 just last week, while the government's commitment was to give them the final one by the end of April. I would also remind you that the Prime Minister's own commitment to the grant of the EUR 800 bonus to lawyers was not acted on for May. The smuggling of lawyers, like other scientists, continues. As of 13 March, the courts are closed, the majority of lawyers have been free of income for two months, their obligations being "current" or transferred in a later period, in a later period. In any case, however, they will be invited to do so. The Ministry of Justice must take its place and enforce the real support of lawyers, whose majority of them are in despair. We are now coming to the bill under discussion. We agree and we are pleased that his provisions have been processed and matured in the rule of SYRIZA and now come to legislate. I am referring first of all to the provision on electronic performance. We hope that practical and technical issues will be resolved and properly implemented so that this innovation can succeed. Secondly, the ratification of the memorandum of cooperation with the Republic of Cyprus. We are very pleased that he has matured and was essentially signed by SYRIZA government. But there is one question about cooperation on the penitentiary system. The originality of Greece, a pan-European originality, assign the penitentiary system to the Ministry of Civil Protection, creates issues here as well. We believe that there should be a special arrangement for this cooperation to continue, even though it is the Ministry. There is a matter of competence, Minister, and this must certainly be resolved in order to clarify the matter. Thirdly, the introduction of the peacekeepers into the National Court School, which has, of course, matured greatly from our own government and is now being carried out. For example, it turns out that four and a half years of SYRIZA's governance was very productive for the Ministry of Justice as well. However, the bill we are debating has many problematic elements, which I do not know will be corrected until the vote. We have pointed it out in the committee debate and we await the Ministry's initiative. I shall begin with the institution of legal aid. The Greek society is facing a new social and economic crisis. In its refusal to really strengthen workers and businesses, in the sense of'seeing and doing', the government leads the country to a recession record for the euro area, as the Commission points out in a relevant report. In particular, with this new crisis, provision should be made to support our fellow citizens, who really need it. The institution of legal aid should also be applied to our fellow citizens who have other expenditure or have difficulties. For example, people with disabilities, multiples and others should be integrated, even with a higher income than is provided for in the law. A separate possibility should also be provided, with more favourable conditions for the provision of legal aid, where this relates to operations of particular importance to the individual's goods, such as execution operations in his principal place of residence. We also propose the highest income criteria as provided for in the draft law in the provision on legal aid in criminal matters, to be related to offences for which a penalty of three to five years is provided. In other cases of defects, the basic income criteria, as in urban cases, apply. We also propose to remove the condition of ten representations in criminal matters in order to appoint a lawyer as a legal aid attorney. Instead, provision could be made for the lawyer to attend seminars on the practical management of criminal legal aid cases organised by lawyers and to do so within one month of his statement that he wants to participate in the relevant tables. Finally, we propose that legal aid be settled when they are paid over six months, with the exception of August, from the receipt of the complete file by the FIFG. Here, I would like to stress that on the basis of a recent situation given by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Justice to representatives of the House of Lawyers, it is revealed that between 2017 and 2018 the warranting and payment of orders doubled and amounted to three thousand four hundred fifty-eight in six thousand six hundred sixty-two. It is a report by the Secretary-General which shows that there has been a doubling of the mandates. Unfortunately, in 2020, the trend is declining in the clearance of the relevant expenditure. Also, I would remind you that, in rule SYRIZA, the lawyer predicted payment of the VAT by paying the order and not by issuing a document. A proposal, therefore, if you want to help lawyers in practice, is the settlement of the late payment of the warrant. Regarding the increase in the seats of judges and prosecutors, all the legal world, judges, prosecutors, lawyers had welcomed the increase in the positions of judges and prosecutors by the June 2019 legislative act. This regulation responded to the real needs of justice. Unfortunately, you have left a year to be lost since July last year and you are retiring to fill the positions for 2022. We insist that the way to make recruitments faster and to fill posts exists. The Vice-President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors also confirmed this at the meeting of the Committee. It has also been done in the past with the introduction to the School of Judges of the next successors of the last competition. The claim that there is a question of legality is unsatisfactory as the Council of State has repeatedly considered that there are no candidates who have completed the examination procedure to be a legitimate interest in the infringement. Furthermore, the bill provides for a new structure in the positions of judges. In particular, while the posts of prosecutors' prosecutors are increased by twenty-three, the positions of prosecutors are reduced accordingly. In this way, there is an impact on the temporal speed of progress of lower public prosecutors in higher grades. We think their number should be the same. We were also surprised to note that the positions of the President-in-Office of the Council are increasing by one. The question is, of course, why the Court of First Instance? Now on the directive 541/2017 on combating terrorism, we also stressed in the committee that the concept of the terrorist group is differentiated. The problem is double. On the one hand, the concept of the terrorist group, as described in the bill, is wider than this directive and on the other the concept of the terrorist group, as described, is broad and vague and in relation to the concept of the terrorist organization in the Greek legal order. With regard to Directive 2016/800 procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, you choose the incorporation of many new provisions already in force, but without discrimination for all, regardless of whether they are minors or adults. The incorporation of the directive into separate legislation instead of the Code of Criminal Procedure poses a strong risk of serious retreat to the rights of minors. You must therefore take into account the spirit of the European legislature and propose the purpose of the law which requires the protection of the child. Furthermore, the implementation of the directive is problematic, because until the groups referred to in Article 7 are set up, their responsibilities will be exercised by the relevant structures of the ESS, a system which is already burdened by the current pandemic. For the individual provisions incorporating the directives, we have already tabled our specific objections to the debate in the committee. We did the same for Article 57 on refugee status. As far as Articles 63 and 64 are concerned, it should be borne in mind that, unlike provisions in the past, criminal offences are removed, even acts which were committed two weeks ago. The constant tactics in such legislation were at least to run these limitations six months back. Nor has it been taken care of for the quarter of the appeal, that is, at the moment, that the crime of some acts be dropped, and that it runs in the quarter for someone to plead for them. Neither for the semester nor even for the quarter is there any provision. I also repeat that an exception should be made to the limitation of penalties imposed in connection with acts committed on crimes of illegal violence, domestic violence, threats, theft and others, as they are particularly deceptive. Finally, I would also like to say about the amendment you tabled. We disagree with the order for the financial prosecutor and the prosecutor of corruption crimes. The latter, of course, refers to the recital not to the text. The reasons are institutional, procedural and also material. First of all, you should tell us whether it has been requested and whether the Association of Prosecutors of Greece has been consulted on this provision. The Union has already categorically opposed other parts of the bill. The amendment is surprisingly interfering with issues of public interest. Nor does it appear that the Prosecutor of the Ice Board has been requested and given the assent of the Plenipotentiary of the Plenipotentiary. If there are these, give them to us. There should be this opinion because it concerns matters relating to the establishment and organisation of courts. The Prosecutor's model of the Parliament's hierarchical formation applies to the public prosecutor. The oversight tasks of the Deputy Prosecutors of the Ice Arena themselves are entrusted by the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena. We note that Vice-Presidents of the Ice Bay take up their positions as duty and do not take up a new position. I also take up a duty, but I take a new position, of course, in supervising prosecutors of economic crimes and corruption crimes. They therefore do not have a new post with those duties and a decision of the Supreme Court is not required, in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution. We also have to bear in mind that the Supreme Judicial Council is represented by a majority of judges, and so when matters are closely related to the functioning of the public prosecutor's office, as we would have the phenomenon of breaking up the principle of independence vis-à-vis other authorities, but also with regard to the courts. In other words, those from another authority will decide who will supervise a public prosecutor. Finally, we note that there is no transitional provision at all. This will first of all create confusion and delays. We hope that it will not lead, on the one hand, to the archiving of cases, without, of course, supervising the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Arena or removing procedural documents from specific prosecutors and taking them up by others. In closing my report, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that all of us, but above all the Justice Ministry, must show practical respect and maintain its commitment to resolving the practical and institutional issues which concern the area of justice and its contributors, who are struggling to enjoy a rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. The reason is the Special Rapporteur from the Change Movement, Mr. Konstantina Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary this bill of the Ministry of Justice, while we have entered as a country in a new phase. In a new phase where our country, society, has to face a double challenge. On the one hand the phase of incarceration, quarantine, has been completed. And with the efforts of the doctors, the government, who has indeed taken timely measures and, more or less, of the political world, with the Change Movement to stand out with the constant constructive proposals of many of whom have been accepted by the Government, this is important, especially with the unprecedented discipline and observance of measures on the part of Greek citizens, we have been able to achieve very good health results. We have shown what we can achieve when respecting the experts' views and, above all, when we go unitedly as Greeks. But now we're in the next phase. The virus is still here. The risk of a second wave of pandemic is present, while the attempt to re-evaluate the economy has already begun, to re-evaluate the economy on its feet. I think that in this second phase, the government does not seem ready. The ministers create a climate of euphoria that the recession will be around 5%, when we have estimates from international houses from the IMF, from the committee, that it can exceed 10%. If two months ago we were talking about war with an invisible enemy, now we are talking about a post-war landscape with visible enemies, with disastrous enemies the recession, the risk of mass locks, the evacuation of unemployment rates, the vertical decline in living standards, the collapse of tourism. In the face of all this gloomy landscape, therefore, I cannot say in any case that I see an integrated plan to deal with on the part of the government, that there is a specific package of support for business, that there are clear words, that there are clear estimates and additional provision for dialogue, for a synthesis of views. What is coming and we have to deal with it cannot be dealt with by conflicting and blurred assessments. The whole truth needs to be said and, of course, the government needs wisdom and understanding and its main responsibility. Unfortunately, instead of all of this, so far, we see ministers who have a strong sense of complacency, fragmentation and even a lack of management of very critical issues. So you realise that this will lead to a 'collapse' for the country and society. And let us not forget that the Greek people spent ten "petroleum", very difficult, years in the crisis, with an incredible reduction in the standard of living, with incredible rates of unemployment. He doesn't have much tolerance. Minister, I felt like mentioning these thoughts, as I am particularly afraid of the return of a climate and a 'wave', if you would like, of anger, populism, blind fanaticism, while approaching a new 'tsunami'. It is, therefore, primarily the government's responsibility, first and foremost, to show a plan, collaborativeness, support for persuasion, composition and consensus. Now let's go to today's draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a week of intense discussion in committee throughout the debate on this bill. We have a draft law, which primarily relates to the transposition of European directives, which should, of course, have been done much more quickly and more quickly. This is primarily an obligation of the Greek state. On the other hand, however, in the same draft law heterogeneous provisions arise. In fact, you have brought in new provisions on Friday by means of an amendment. One third of the arrangements you bring is out of consultation. If this is a model of good legislature or of a state of service, Minister, then I think we have really lost the meaning and substance of things. I have told you in the committees that in particular the Ministry of Justice must and must be a model and a model of good legislation, respecting, if anything, your pre-election commitments for the state which, unfortunately, continues not to do and disappoint us. Of course, this particular question also arises here: was this your first priority after the quarantine? The priority of the Ministry of Justice was this draft law or how we will be able to see an integrated legal world support plan, which is severely affected - brutally! - from all this crisis we're experiencing? Of course, the answer was not the vouchers and all that pragmatism we saw from the government's side, Minister. Ultimately, where is your complete plan for a smooth transition to the post quarantine era, to safe, to the smooth functioning of justice? Shouldn't that be the first thing we'd be discussing, Minister, over here in the Greek Parliament, than to bring us fragmentary bills? I told you: Is it important, but is this your priority? For us, the Change Movement, the reform, the modernisation, the rationalisation of Greek legislation, the integration of our European obligations is, of course, our obligation and always historically, politically, politically, we agreed, we agreed, we were at the forefront of modernising our justice on the basis of our international obligations. This is something that you need to see on the ground too, to see exactly how we will modernise justice and solve its time-consuming problems, the top of which is how we will be able to make justice more quickly. Of course, a solution to this, Mr Minister, is a wider reformist breath on the area of justice, following exhaustive dialogue with the institutions of justice and, of course, here in Parliament and not just the existing limitations of deportation and the cessation of criminal prosecution, which you are bringing us with this bill. With regard to the incorporation of the procedural guarantees directives, for children suspected or accused, in the fight against fraud through criminal law against the Union's financial interests, in the fight against terrorism, on the subject of Eurojust, on the matter of consultation and better cooperation between the Greek Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice of Cyprus, we are, of course, positive. We have commented in detail on the committees. We will, of course, also do so at Thursday's sitting, where we will talk about the articles. In any case, however, we are positive on these issues. As far as the fourth part, which is incorporated into the Greek legal system, however, is concerned, we have stressed that, through the way you have done so, major issues arise and we have asked you very specific questions, Minister. We have explained that, through the way you bring these regulations, this issue arises first and foremost, which is particularly badly affecting young lawyers. So this is about the blockade of the ten compulsory representations for new lawyers in order to deal with such cases. It is therefore excluded that young people who may have all the essential and formal conditions to participate in this institution, in a completely, completely, unjust and unjust manner. I do not understand why, as far as the institution of legal aid is concerned, a lawyer who has not made ten representations in a criminal court cannot participate, although if he was not that institution, in any other case he could. Why are you setting this restriction? You can't explain it. At the hearing of our bodies, they said that there are other possibilities, if you want to ensure and ensure the level of quality that the lawyers need to exist: We may be given assurances from them. You may measure graduates or doctors. A child who has made a postgraduate or doctorate in criminal law, but who does not have 10 performances, cannot participate in legal aid? They may have attended specific seminars. So we invite you again to see it and change it. Our second objection to legal aid is to extend its beneficiaries. First of all, we agree and think it is incomprehensible, there is no one in this Chamber who could disagree with the enlargement of this institution to vulnerable groups, to vulnerable people, to people who do not have the financial capacity to have legal protection. This, of course, is very important. However, it is basically the solution to this issue and the real support of people who do not have that opportunity, but the management of communication and popularity, I would say, this institution. Because at the moment you know very well that this institution is not working as it should, because of the very serious administrative difficulties that you have to solve, but also because you know very well that in the cases of legal aid to deal with these dossiers it may be another two years. At the moment legal aids are being cleared up in 2018, Minister. So, what are you going to do with all this? It's a gift free! It's a humiliation! So the first question we ask you is whether, first of all, you intend and what specific amount of the budget you will put to the question of legal aid, in order to resolve the issue and not to block it any further. So the real solution to the issue, to which we are the first to be obviously in favour, is its micro-participatory, micro-political handling. And of course, I asked you a question and you didn't answer us. I also asked the Bar Association and told us 'We certainly didn't have any knowledge'. I asked you whether you took into account the results of the legal panel which worked for several weeks on this matter. I shall conclude with the issue of the Eighth Party, Articles 63 and 64. In detail, I will refer to the special plenary session on the articles on Thursday. However, we must also mention this because it is an objection on our part, which has to do with the ultimate limitation and the cessation of criminal prosecution of certain offences which have been committed up to a few weeks ago. Mr President, I will need a minute more. Of course, this has to do with the eternal weighting between two different legal goods. On the one hand, we have the criminal claim of the state and of the citizen on the conviction that the courts have laid down, even in low-crime offences, and on the other hand we have the accumulation of cases which create a great deal of overconcentration in the first degree, thereby creating all these problems that we see in the functioning of courts and justice. All this weighting, I said to the committees, over time, historically and intergrouply from all the governments, was in favour of the second solution. Of course, we also saw corresponding arrangements in 2011 and 2013 and in 2016. But are the circumstances the same? Because right now, Minister, we have a new Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been in operation for a year. We already have new reduced sentences. A number of acts have been abolished. There have been a number of misdemeanours. There were and there were ways of resolving the issue without leading us to the limitation. As much as I understand your logic - and I mean that, Minister, I have told you that it has happened before by all governments - on the one hand we have new conditions, and, on the other hand, we have to look at the issue of general prevention in our criminal law, which, unfortunately, will be a rag. If that is the case, Minister, then they should also be deleted as offences, if it is permanent and any government that comes to erase their crimes. Is that a solution? We say in no way. So, with regard to the principle of the Change Movement, we, having proved that we always operate beyond micro-partyism and micro-political criteria, are voting in favour of this draft law in principle, as it is incorporating European directives. But we reserve you, and we call on you to resolve these two issues that we have raised and raised and to which we disagree vertically and on the articles, of course, we are voting against them. We expect to see what your placement will be and Thursday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, my colleague. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. During the debate on the bill in committee, it has been heard several times, and it has been repeated today, that little - it does not fit in with its vote because it concerns the incorporation into Greek law of Euro-Union directives from which we cannot deviate. To some extent, on the one hand, those who show the country's Euro-union course as a one-way path, it is thus, although even in this incorporation obligation, that there is a margin of flexibility for each government to apply the relevant rules. What needs, however, do these instructions come to serve? Whose interests ultimately shield? These directives, as well as a large number of equivalents that have brought to the vote by all the previous governments, I have pre-empted the SYRIZA's last, are part of and contribute to further building the so-called area of freedom, security and justice of the European Union, namely a more reactionary area in which all the repressive mechanisms of the Member States can be used together to neutralise what can be considered dangerous for the European Union's sanctuary and loyal bodies, the interests of Euro-Union capital, to the detriment of the rights and freedoms of workers and the wider people's strata of the Member States. In fact, the need to shield from vibration becomes more urgent in times of crisis when the competitions reap what national civil order interests will be less affected by periods that also appear to be the greatness of this well-known European solidarity, which remains in words when the profits of every bourgeoisie are at stake and when, on the contrary, restrictive measures are to be adopted against the people. It is in these cases that the restrictions and repression at the expense of the people's movement, a common and always visible enemy and the interests of the Union. This is also acknowledged by the Government itself in the recital in the explanatory memorandum to this bill, highlighting the important progress made in the field of judicial and police cooperation. With regard to measures facilitating the exercise of criminal prosecution, you say that it is now time to take action to improve the balance between these measures and the protection of individual procedural rights. So, what do you confess? You confess what the JRC has been denounced since the beginning that the arrangements for judicial and police cooperation, which have been in place for over two decades at European Union level in the name of facilitating the exercise of criminal prosecutions, have undermined and affected even these minimum individual rights, essentially and in procedural terms. Furthermore, it is undeniable that despite the hollow statements that the aim of the European Union and the Member States is to protect individual rights and freedoms, at the same time a number of criminal provisions are introduced, as has been done in the new penal codes that curtail and circumvent the rights of the accused. Even in Directive 2016/800 on the minimum and not those who would really need procedural guarantees for minors suspected or accused, while being used to create the so-called sensitive profile of the European Union in matters relating to the rights of the child, at the same time there is room for them to be circumvented in the face of the need for the progress of the criminal procedure. Such an exception is provided for even in the elementary right for a minor defendant to attend with a lawyer at all stages of the criminal proceedings. In fact, you are attempting to introduce as an alleged counterbalance in the absence of a lawyer the particularly problematic procedure for the audiovisual record of the child's statement by opening dangerous paths to the protection of the individuality of the accused. Furthermore, whatever protection rights are provided for only those who are accused of specific crimes that are more serious, mainly criminal, leaving out the vast majority of cases in which minors are usually involved, such as thefts, physical injuries and others. But what is constantly deteriorating is the ground on which child and youth crime is born. This is why none of the European, American, capitalist and capitalist lifestyles are horrific. The same goes forth diligently from all the documentaries of the European Union's institutions, where a number of negative social phenomena, such as school leaving and social marginalisation, are being banned as causes of child crime and not as symptoms of the rotting system that you warmly serve. Is it enough, however, to provide for measures without the necessary and appropriate financing of state social structures, where the major shortcomings are known and are not addressed today, such as the undersubmission of social services related to the issues of minors? Is it just enough to introduce minimum procedural guarantees for the protection of minors when this does not fall within an overall anti-crime policy, with the responsibility of the State, which will emphasise the prevention, education and the smooth reintegration of offenders into society? Such an approach certainly does not fit into the cost-benefit-weighting mechanisms of the European Union, nor can it be tolerated in a system that at the heart of capitalist profit rather than covering the expanded people's needs. So these interests also come to be shielded by the second directive on combating fraud against the interests of the European Union, in fact by means of wide-ranging formalities for criminal offences, hostile to the interests of the Union, with strict penalties. In fact, it is characteristic that it is attempting - and indeed with serious criminal sanctions - to protect the funds provided by the European Union to the Member States on the basis of its main policy guidelines, for example, with regard to the so-called 'eligible expenditure', and, in essence, to deprive even the slightest flexibility in terms of the management of the funds concerned. The defence, by means of criminal law, of the European Union's financial interests is, of course, a process necessary in the context of intra-commercial competition. On the other hand, not only does it have any positive effect or benefit to the workers and the people's strata of our country and other Member States of the European Union, but it is making use of measures in the direction of criminalising every voice that deviates from defending these interests to suppress the labour movement itself, and it is also being used for further collection and processing of personal data, something that, as you say in the explanatory statement, has already been introduced into Greek legislation under previous directives. You are, you see, all of you particularly diligent students in some of these matters. This logic also serves to incorporate another European directive, which deals with the extension of behaviour that can be baptized as'relevant to terrorist activity', bringing serious criminal convictions. Such developments can only give rise to concern if we look at international experience, where over time, under the pretext of the threat of terrorism, go through a series of measures that extend repression and take advantage of the need for the reduction of popular rights and freedoms to be dressed in the context of the need. After all, this effort has also been reflected in the recent changes in the Criminal Code of both the New Democracy and previous SYRIZA. Of course, SYRIZA as a opposition came out on the tiles and proclaimed the abolition of the "terror", but eventually strengthened him by including new acts, such as the offence of recruitment members or the public threat of committing terrorist acts and others. Accordingly, the New Democracy has, on the one hand, maintained these reactionary changes and, on the other, has added a new provision, integrating the 'terrorist' offence of traveling when allegedly being carried out for training in the conduct of terrorist acts. With this directive you are now taking a step further. It is standardised as an independent crime to organise or facilitate a third party to travel if it is deemed that it was intended to commit a terrorist act, even if no offence is committed in the country of destination. We're wondering, really, where this little cat's gonna end. The surveillance of a film that is considered to have a terrorist content will soon be persecuted when it is assumed that we are seeing it to raise up modern methods. This provision, if it were not, in fact, deeply reactionary and dangerous, would be available for various kinds of intelligence. And, unfortunately, these thoughts have not come out of a police film scenario, but they are already a skeptical condemnation decision where a trip to Spain was assessed as a sign of guilt for involvement in a terrorist organisation. The risk of making use of such provisions at the expense of the people's movement cannot be ignored when it is known that the efforts of the institutions of the European Union to incorporate into the term 'terrorism' any radical or progressive thinking that calls into question this system. It is clear, moreover, that the concerns of the ruling classes at European level and, of course, in our country too, in view of the labour and popular reactions that we know will arise from their policy and especially today that we have already entered a new period of deep capitalist economic crisis. You are all taking measures to shield yourself against the anger of the labor and popular masses that are not going to accept to pay for the broken ones in this crisis. Didn't you do the same in the previous years of the crisis? It was not enough for the already-armed repressive mechanism that all governments over time used to set up a farm court, apprenticeship - first-teaching PASOK - to put indictments against trade unionists and other protesters, to whom they have a strong CV and the officials of today's government, then, as a better student of all, SYRIZA criminalises the movement against auctions, leaving it in New Democracy, which was strict in order to enable banks to make massages of popular housing. In fact, it is such that your commitment to this purpose, which you are provoking today, excluding these offences from the new one - once again - a provision for the cessation of criminal prosecutions which, for a number of other, less awkward, criminal behaviours, are being introduced. The works and days of all governments are many and leave no room for reassurance. Minister, it seems that in the same strange way that the protocols and restrictions of specialists apply with different rigour on a case-by-case basis, as, for example, in the known case of airlines where we have recently learned that there is no slight risk of the virus being transmitted when you sit in a exactly two-sided position on planes traveling with 100%, such as, of course, immunity develops within large hotel units for the sake of the miracle of tourism, rather in a similar way, the responsibility of the ministers to extend the mandate of administrative councils, trade unions and other unions to avoid the overlapping of possible antiquities is shown. In the question I asked you in committee, because you stubbornly refuse to satisfy the request made by the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, as well as the administrative councils of the associations of Judges of the Court of Auditors and the members of the Legal Council of State to extend their term of office until it is possible and safe to carry out their duties, you have replied that you do not have the responsibility to do so by trying to degrade the fact. We ask ourselves: has there been such a lack of competence and when the Government, by means of its legislative act of 14 March, extended the mandate of the administrative bodies and trade unions and employers' organizations, which expires during the period of validity of the exceptional measures to limit the spread of the coronary? Also, was there such a lack of competence when, by the Act of Legislation of 30 March, Article 58, the Government extended the mandate of the Hellenic Foundation for Culture? When, in the same legislative act, you extended the mandate of the administrative and supervisory boards of agricultural cooperatives, forced cooperatives and associations of forced cooperatives, the board of directors and the other organs of the Chamber of Visual Arts of Greece, then there was such competence? When you extended the mandate of the organs of sports clubs and associations, did your competence not evolve? Why is your authority only exhausted in the case of the Union of Judges? Why does such a decision come into a box in the group of certain members of the board of directors, which, on the one hand, puts various stumblings in the course of elections, and, on the other, can it be done, in accordance with the EGE's instructions, which have already been guaranteed by the Bureau and, on the other, avoid as the devil the extension of the mandate of the board of directors? Because, as they have said without spins, what they are seeking is that the mandate of the legally elected and by a large majority of today's Bureau should be brought to an end, in order to ask the court to appoint a donor court, thereby hoping to control the Bureau. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How else is this differentiation explained on a case-by-case basis, if not because it seeks to support this unacceptable coup d'état replacement of the democratically elected Bureau with another more friendly and persuasive to the government? These methods once again make it clear how empty content are the declarations of both the New Democracy, as well as SYRIZA and the other urban parties that have previously ruled, for allegedly respect for the independence of justice. So, stop the millennial performance, because you were all lovers of control of all the joints of power. Besides, this power, you are trying to shield yourself from all kinds of trembling, strengthening the criminal and repressive mechanisms against every voice of claiming and questioning this system. For the reasons we have mentioned above, we are opposed in principle by this bill. We will also be in the debate on the amendments you have tabled in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning and good week! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, last week I was detailed about this step in the first debate that we had in committee on weights that plunge Greek justice into the chaos of political intervention and not just. I'd referred to a series of scandals, if you remember, that got stuck, if you like, in the court's institution. Before the developments, I had made a reference to Topalude's, before the decision came, before the reactions came, before the prosecutor spoke, etc. I just chose this case to demonstrate exactly how this rotten system works, which exploits some legal windows, some trik courtesy, if you like, and manages to clean up its high-level orders. I was talking about two unrepentant murderers - rapists, who had the courage to mock justice, society, because they simply had backs. A few hours later - and here's the shocking element - came the speech of the prosecutor who has a name, and people need to know her name. It's Mrs. Aristotle Doga. And what did he say, ladies and gentlemen? He said something amazing: “Let justice prevail and the whole world be lost.” It's shocking what he said if you understood what he said. I repeat, Minister: 'Let justice prevail and the whole world be lost.' It has not been said, no such phrase has been heard with such a giant force ever before. It's ten words that include all of them. And when this was said, Minister, the "Let justice prevail and the whole world go away", here we are and we were living together this uncovered attack, which he accepted. And what didn't happen? Lawyers, lawyers, the State Secretary here with the Prime Minister, journalists fell to eat it. They fell in tune with a woman prosecutor's speech on a horrible case of brutal murder. We are talking about raw intervention, and that is how we interpret it, Minister. Some explanations were given. They don't tell us it was a personal point of view. We need to understand what position we have at all times and personal views are good to stand aside. Minister, it is disappointing that Greek justice is like a snake. Chew the woods, the unprotected. Of course, the life and the other fifteen years will not soften the pain of Helen’s parents, as they did not soften Vangelis Yakoumakis’ parents. It's been five years, and his parents have spent pandemics there. Eleni and Vangelis, however, were two young children who were tortured and murdered by hands belonging to some "mags" and some "dads" and apparently both of them and those who tried to cover up some things. Now we're going to some other things, Minister. In your debate at the outset, I had tabled two different studies on the level of justice in our country. I'll see you around, it's not flattering at all. It's black mess, to tell you the truth, the results. However, because, Minister, the baker - and the Member or the journalist - must sell fresh breads, so I have sought recent studies on justice, ladies and gentlemen. It is a 2019 study, a very interesting survey, Minister, by the European Commission, the well-known Eurobarometer, which concerns our country. This survey was carried out in 2019 with regard to the views of Greeks and Greeks on the rule of law, on the equality of citizens with regard to the law, on the separation of powers, corruption and, of course, on the functioning of the media. So the Eurobarometer is tortured by the European Commission. 97% of the Greeks consider that there is a question of equality against the law, 97% needs to be improved in the area of arbitraryness and, in particular, in the decision-making by public authorities without favourism or discrimination, 99% wants judges to be independent of political or economic interests and only 2% of our Greek fellow citizens think that the situation in Greece is fine in this area. 94% - this report, like the previous ones in the Minutes - wants the media and journalists - we are laughing at it - to be able to criticise the government or major economic interests without risk of intimidation. We're laughing again. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have told you before, Minister, that you are not responsible for this situation. But today you are bringing a bill to the Greek Parliament. I say again that you are not responsible for this situation. But I say again that you bring a bill and you have the opportunity through the legislation to improve the situation. And instead, what are you doing? Do you change the recipe at all, Minister? You don't change it. And I'm going to prove it to you with arguments that you don't change it. As much as you try to camouflage in a way - it is not at all accident to choose the word - articles and paragraphs - that is what you are trying to do - because we are talking about the language of truth, and today we will reveal everything. You are saying that Europe is imposing this on us. With a smokescreen the European Union's directives, which must be incorporated into Greek law, you are making laws contrary to the national needs of our country, the laws that a thousand years will bring them, Minister, a thousand years will be voted against. And I can explain that the bill contains favourable provisions on the rights of minors or suspects. Why, though, should we baptize ‘young people’s ’ those who are unable to see whether they really are minors or not? But in which country do we live and baptize all of them as minors? Or did you expect, Minister, that we would not understand that you are taking pictures of illegal immigrants who have entered - and are constantly entering - every day in our country where magically they become minors? You know him very well, I told you and the other day, they go in, they rip their papers, unknown age, origin, and so forth. Do you really, as you say in the explanatory statement, the interest of our country when in Article 17 of the bill, Minister, you adopt the training of those who come into contact with the minor? Is that how you serve the interests of our country? What training are we talking about? Tell me, what's the problem? I will now tell you what the problem is and all my fellow Members here in Article 17(3) are here to speak with proof. Does Article 17(3) therefore not state that such initiatives are encouraged through public services or through the financing of support organisations for minors? All inside, Greeks legally resident, foreigners, but lately and illegal immigrants. And what organisations are you going to fund? Who are these organisations? What are the organisations that are leading to the protection of minors? Who are these organisations? Here it stinks of NGOs, we do not discuss it, they will undertake to defend the rights of minors who are illegally entering our country. They're the ones you're going to finance. So that is what Article 17(3) says. Here we are trying to close them, try to record them, and we are trying to limit them, and we are legislating here to finance them already, giving them a role so that they can take on the ills of illegal people who are in our country, with Greeks' money and not Europeans, as you are spreading. Let's go further, Minister. Your bill has provisions that support victims of violent crime. It provides, inter alia, for the right to compensation for such damages. That is positive, first of all, and we have said so. But you add to the self-protection scheme you add to all minors who have their residence or habitual residence in our country or who are residents of a third country for specific offences. Just so that the world does not get confused and understand what we are saying: everyone who enters our country illegally and enters our country and will be privileged as minors and will be compensated for them. How? The NGOs will find him, I'll tell you. NGOs will teach them, Minister, they will claim to be victims of violence and so we will have a nice 'win-win' situation. And they will take their money, and the NGOs will get their money, and as our infertile friend, "cazan-cazan", Minister, says. And all this nice stuff you have in fine letters. There it is a little suspicious, fine letters, references to articles, court tricks, it is not clear. We need to shed a lot of light on the little ones, to see what's behind them, not you, it's generally hidden with 'yes'. This is not a European directive in the Greek legal order, Minister, it is a circumvention of the law and national interests. Let's go to the next one. You are giving simple citations of crimes and sentences on the grounds that the courts are disconciling, but for people - I said it again and I will say it again - who lose their homes and their desperation upstairs are trying to prevent this, get out in the hammer of their homes and lose it and engage with the law, you have no sensitivity. They're the ones you don't get rid of. For the priests, I don't even dare ask what your attitude is. ‘legal assistance’ file: Huge folder. It's too bad here, ladies and gentlemen, it's too cool to camouflage the plan, just like the rest of it. But the directive said, but you cooked. I proved it to you in the last committee, the papers are here. What did the European directive say and ultimately what are we doing here today? In common, I am called Rizzo and as I wish to return. Again, you are equating the Greeks and legitimately resident in the country and others, so people, stateless, who are legally resident in the country, with illegal immigrants to have free legal services in the problems with the law. So he gets illegally, without papers, it is almost certain that he will get into illegality, and we are giving him free help to get out of the illegalities he's doing in here. Yes, sir! Of course, the investors knew to include them in the law properly, the multiples and the three-tiers, why don't you give them free? Give it free and let it have an income! He honors the Greek family, he may have three children. What does the kid mean? Give free legal help to multiple families! What's gonna happen? We're gonna throw the country on the rocks? Are we going to be financially destroyed if we have this provision for the multiples? None of this! For illegal immigrants, however, Minister, glory exists for God, our minds do not really fit. In the Greeks you exhaust the rigour of the law and illegal foreigners share simple privileges and rights. I ask again: does this mean for you to promote national interests, as you say in the explanatory statement? Be sure that you cannot hide from the Greeks and that we are here to defend the interests of Greece and the Greeks, but also to translate what is written - whether by law or by alpha yatas - with fine letters, Minister, into the bills you bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr Heta, for keeping time. The floor is now given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Bakadima Fotini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first day of discussion in plenary of the draft law introduced by the Ministry of Justice, incorporating several - five - European directives into Greek legislation, ratifys a memorandum of cooperation between the Greek and Cypriot Ministry of Justice, but also brings a large number of other provisions, some of them quite problematic and, of course, once again, as I said in committee, with complete violation of the principle of good legislation, which the government has announced since the beginning. This is because the majority of the proposed provisions were not put into any consultation, and unfortunately - although they should - at least in terms of the provisions on the training and staffing of judges, it does not come as part of an integrated upgrading plan rather than as a fragmentary provision. I have already been in detail in the articles in the relevant committee meetings, as I will have the opportunity to do on Thursday on the second day of debate. Therefore, today, I will move on to an introductory position, touching only a few points in the draft law under discussion. First of all, it has caused us the first part that contains provisions concerning minors suspected or accused, with some provisions relating to parental care, a position which can be covered by a representative from a public or private body, the individual assessment that we should - we consider - is unreasonable to be carried out by specialist pediatricians and pediatricians from the national health system, the digital recording, the recording that may be working, as the institutions have said, for the benefit of the minor, as we have heard at the hearing of bodies. However, we still have reservations as to whether these provisions, as we have been given, are indeed creating a narrow framework for protecting the personality of the child and preserving its best interests. The third part aims to incorporate Directive 2017/541 on combating terrorism. It is worth noting that this directive was adopted in March 2017 by augmenting and integrating, in addition to its objectives in this area, UN Security Council decisions and other relevant conventions, which stemmed from the new 2015-2020 European Security Agenda, which was presented in 2015 and provided as a priority for the revision of the UN Security Council resolution - framework 475 of 2002 on combating terrorism. Therefore, the provisions in Part Three criminalise travel for purposes related to terrorism, the financing, organisation and facilitation of such journeys, the provision and follow-up of training for purposes related to terrorism, the provision of funds for the conduct of terrorist acts, recruitment, public incitement to terrorist offences through the Internet or other means, synergy, moral automation and the attempt to commit terrorist crime. In addition, the jurisdiction of the courts regarding the prosecution of criminal offences, provided for in the fight against terrorism, is regulated to block access to material that is a public incitement to commit terrorist offences on the Internet, as well as to remove such material, while increasing the financial penalties resulting from the offences of participation in a terrorist organisation, the provision of support, the incitement to commit terrorism and recruitment. As regards the most important issue of legal aid, you asked, Minister, to take our suggestions on Friday. So you have received ours too. We therefore expect to see the legislative improvements to which you will proceed on the subject and relocate on Thursday. For the time being, as far as legal aid is concerned, I will only repeat what I said on Friday at the second reading of the bill. For us, Mera25, all citizens should have access to legal aid so that even those who are weaker can look for their rightfulness or have defence if necessary. Unfortunately, in the last ten years, the difficult economic conditions which have led to wages, pensions, individual and family incomes have constantly worsened the situation for many of our fellow citizens. Therefore, we should legislatively take all those necessary initiatives to ensure that the weaker people do not become second-class citizens who, if necessary, will remain without an attorney simply because they do not have the financial capacity to cover the costs. And this, of course, always taking the necessary steps to finally take legal aid only those who need it and, of course, to target lawyers who offer their services in this context too, to receive their remuneration within a reasonable timeframe and not after two years, as is currently the case, which is deterrent. Thus, many lawyers do not want to enter the situation of legal aid lawyers, knowing that they will spend a long time and be paid in two years. We would also like you to see the paradox of applications for compensation for victims of violence, which, although it is reduced to half, we consider that it is not enough and that, given the particular nature of these crimes, it should be reduced even further. As we said on Friday, we also regard as problematic the increase in costs of recourse to justice with the planned changes in the matter of homogeneity, which is likely to prevent our fellow citizens from seeking their right. In conclusion, since we will be able to deal with much more detail on the second day of the debate on the articles, I will be coming back today to the question of Article 62 and the third paragraph of this. Mr Minister, on Friday I asked you some questions which, unfortunately, you did not answer. So I looked a little further and found that unfortunately you are dealing with the issue of legality selectively. And I say this, because with Article 72 of the draft law that we will be asked to vote on Thursday or not, you are extending the 2016 peace plan. But before you proceeded to this provision, you wondered, did you look, can you tell us how many people didn't go to the oral part of the contest then?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u14	Eleven people. It's all known!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u15	Three hundred thirty-four, Minister. And I'll testify to the relevant table in the minutes. Also, you extended the list of successors of the State’s Legal Council with number 124 two months ago. Do you know how many people didn't go to orals then? Six. I'm going to testify both to the Minutes and to the relevant tables. However, you do not extend the successful table to the School of Judges because 12 people did not go to orals. Why, really, I'm wondering. Mr. Sevastidis told us last Thursday that you could get them. Truly, neither do the judges know legality and encourage them to do something that is not legal? However, you also insist and do not give us the opinion of the legality deficit. Mr Minister, as we see it, there are practical choices: either you withdraw Article 72 without peacekeepers and cancel the Staff Regulations 124 without any judges at the Legal Council of State or you will change paragraph 3 of Article 62 and you will get the successors of the twentieth competition. Last Thursday, we were all here, you told us that money was there. There is no legality issue, otherwise you should cancel all the previous tables. And honestly there is neither a reasonable nor a proper excuse for not doing so, unless there is any other excuse, which we will really be here to listen to all of us with great interest. Just don't tell us that the positions of the judges are fifty or that the remaining successful are forty-three, so that's a problem. After you would have taken the fifty out of next competition, you can get the fifty three already in the table of nominations and the relevant FEK and increase seven of the Judges in the next contest. There is flexibility and you know it very well, Minister. It's so simple and it's really time to prove in practice how much you want to improve the situation in the Greek courts. We have already tabled an amendment to the committee, which we will be tabling again on Thursday, and we expect you to either accept it or tell us why you choose not to do the right thing, logical and legitimate. As far as the bill is concerned, we will vote against it at first and we will be here on Thursday to discuss all the individual articles in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mrs Bakadima, and respect for the time. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the list of speakers. The first is Mr. Vassilios Economou. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, allow me to speak from my position, because this invisible bucket makes me discomfort. So I'm going to prefer the comfort that the benches give me. Many times self-evident in this country is indeed a very creative exercise, for which we must begin to practice. I also believe that it is a very proactive policy to create, operate and pursue self-evidently. The incorporation of directives that the Ministry brings today would perhaps be a simple process if what they are proposing were self-evident and I think that all political wings could only be understood on the subject. I did not take part in the committee to know all the debate that has been developed, but, taking the courage to make my position today, because I would like to raise other issues, I really have listened with wonder to the rapporteurs of the opposition parties to exercise micro-party and micro-political positions and criticism of provisions that are very clear and self-evident. In other words, from voting against the incorporation of the directives into that country, we must start looking into what we really want to do and what way we want to follow. Minister, I think you are a politician person who has done a great deal of work in the field of the Ministry of Justice this past year. Your whole political approach I think creates new data on the area of justice. Some people, perhaps - and I say it as a lawyer - would prefer or want a specialist on the subject. I'm always a fan of political leaders having political faces. And in this sense, then, you understand that I, as a representative of the Eastern Attica and as a Member of Parliament who has been trying to find solutions to self-evident things and topics for many years, amazed to see your response to a permanent, time-consuming issue of decades in the area of justice, indirectly now. You were surprised not only by me but also by the whole East Attica region and especially by the Horopopos region, when in the classic demand that fifty years can now be attributed to the historical prisons of Horopos to local self-government and the local society of Horopi you responded by self-evidently, that of course the old rural prisons of Horopopos cannot be re-established, where very comprehensive persons were imprisoned there for example Mikis Theodorakis - hence the well-known song - Ledakis, Florakis, that is to say, persons who took the lead in the political life of the place on the left side. But, as you can see, the circumstances have changed and I think it would be very strange to think that these prisons will be reinstated. The most sensible thing was that they should be attributed to the municipality and to the local society. Well, that's what we've been trying to explain and discuss, and a political person who runs the field of justice found out. I think things are going on. I will not insist and will not continue the debate on this. But I bring it as an example and you make announcements when you're ready. I think that you are almost ready for this purpose, and I think that your own contribution, this last year, is important because it has still been accompanied by moderate and cooling, and cooling and moderateness is needed in the field of justice. The day before yesterday, because there was also one rapporteur, I really heard a speech from a judiciary who was very strong - if you really want, in fact, expressed me completely - but in fact when we want to discuss the data of justice, the judicial officers and the functioning of justice must always be elements of neutral, cold and uncoloured. This also requires the country's jurisprudence system, which also requires the officials. In that sense, then, neutrality and coolness must be elements which define the political function in this ministry, and I am very pleased to see procedures that you have introduced, not only with the standard transposition of directives, for example with the 800/2016 directive on the procedural guarantees of minors, which is really a very important directive, which you are now integrating. This process also distinguishes the concept of political leadership, when this directive is delayed and comes at the initiative of the political leadership. My dear colleague, Mr Kalamatiano, is here, whom I appreciate and know. But in this country, my dear, all the good things attributed to SYRIZA and all the bad things to the rest. I heard you, with a lot of curiosity, saying that it was in the mind of the legislator of SYRIZA, who did not have time to do so. And I am talking about the introduction of the peacekeepers now at the Court of Justice or the other very good provisions which the Ministry brings here, such as the limitation of the offences in Article 63, up to one year or the limitation of penalties of up to six months, to Article 64. We can't have everything in this life. When something good happens, say "bravo" and now leave what we had in mind four, five, twenty-two years ago, no one knows when this great idea you had. But let us say 'bravo' to the person who has the political initiative and implements the things that he thinks are right. So generosity - and I shall end, Mr President - and the political performance of the good legislative initiatives does not reduce us, we do not lose percentages, we do not lose votes. The micropsy and weakness shows immortality, confusion, and this discomfort that is spreading gives bad results, whether they are elections or polluting, over the last few years. So because we are leaving the first phase, which was victorious for our country, the adventure of the pandemic, and we are entering the second phase, which needs low tons, it needs temptation in dealing with the issues, I think that this bill solves a number of issues, which are for me and put their stone on what we call 'better justice in Greece'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, justice is at the heart of concern, unfortunately not because of the current bill but because of other moves the government has taken the initiative. What do I mean? I could refer to the last incident, namely the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister on an ongoing trial, and while the Joint Judicial Court was in the process of adopting a decision. Irrespective of the view that one can put forward on the grounds and attitude of the prosecutor of the office, the statement by the Deputy Prime Minister here shows a lack of respect for the rule of law and the independence of justice, and at the same time proves and I would say the property logic of the New Democracy for the State which extends to the constitutionally guaranteed independent judicial function. But I shall refer to the case or rather to the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, which the New Democracy is trying to turn into a 'Papagelopoulos case', a SYRIZA manufacturer and a company in progress by a majority of the Pre-Audit Committee to extend the indictment, against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, in order to prevent the incidental fiasco, because it seems from the present procedure that there can be no offences against it. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are involved in judicial officers. You are not interested, you are not giving a damn about the validity of justice, the dignity of the judicial officers and the respect of which the justice must be enjoyed by the Greek people. You're slandering judges. In short, you are creating a morbid atmosphere, without care for the truth, only for the political benefits to be gained. The current bill contains a series of sanctions for directives, the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation with Cyprus and in addition to various types of dispersed fragmentation provisions concerning issues of the Ministry of Justice. This is a bill that has no central idea, principle. Its diffuse provisions may not concern matters of major importance to the public. But on these small issues too, daily issues are reflected in a concept of a specific political orientation. It shows that the New Democracy, the conservative neoliberal party, reads things and chooses solutions. In this context, the directives and the way they are incorporated and the scattered provisions introduced to vote are linked to a strand that runs through and characterises their rationale. This has a conservative mark and it differentiates it from another approach that can be characterised as open, reformative, progressive. Conservative perspectives are thus reflected in the provisions introduced and related to the economy, social stratification, equality or not to the treatment of citizens. For example, with regard to terrorism, the relevant provision of the bill on the concept of the terrorist group is problematic. This, as described in the bill, but also in relation to the Greek legal order, is wider than this directive and further vague. The directive requires the terrorist group to be set up for a long period, while the draft law only provides for an indefinite period of time. In addition, Article 187a of the Criminal Code provides that the terrorist group must have lasting action. With regard to the decongestion of criminal courts. Provisions listing the criminal offence and ending the criminal prosecution in cases pending and provided for a prison sentence of up to one year, or a penalty or a non-profit-making penalty, shall be introduced and shall be retained and enforced for up to six months, financial penalties or public-private penalties. The layout is correct. It is aimed at reducing cases from the pins of criminal courts that have been overloaded, since the audiences have not been operating because of a coronary since March last year. However, criminal offences - rightly linked - to the spread of the coronary, the escape of a prisoner, the insult of sexual dignity, but also - of the miracle - the disruption of auctions. That is to say, the decongestion of the courts is carried out in a manner which does not include acts directly linked to the protection of the first place of residence. In this respect, this exception cannot be disconnected from the government decision by the gradual reopening of the courts to start with cases facilitating banks and funds and opening the way to auctions. It is a government choice and a priority to benefit banks and funds to the detriment of the wealth of the economically weak. This government option can also be linked to the government refusal to establish a new framework for the protection of first homes, after the extension of the existing protection at least until the end of the year, because the extension given a few weeks is inadequate, in addition, the government refuses to commit itself to continuing to the protection of first residence. In relation to access to justice. The Government must ensure that all citizens enjoy the constitutional right to have effective access to justice. The provision for the maximum of fifty judges in a joint request for annulment is an obstacle, effectively restricts the possibility of resorting to justice - because of the high cost it has - weak economic citizens. In other words, it is the case with the obligation to pay a judicial notice in the case of actions of recog­nition. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] As regards legal aid, it is necessary to extend the income criteria on the basis of which citizens are entitled to benefit from legal protection. That is to say, the possibility of people in need of a defence attorney being further expanded, but they do not have the financial capacity to do so. The current circumstances, with the storm of cuts, the reduction of wages, precarious forms of work, redundancies, unemployment, continuing overcompensation of households and businesses, which in general the economically weaker layers, require that legal aid be extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u20	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u23	The barrier to minimum representations for the lawyers taking the case in question excludes new lawyers, whose support must be a priority, because they are the presumption that they are economically impossible. Finally, I would like to bring back something I mentioned in the committee and the question that I raised with the Minister. The recent release of a detained pediatrician who served a long term sentence was presented by the systemic media - (although misinformation) - as a release under Law No.4322/2016, the Act of Paradise, in full matching to what New Democracy and before the elections and then moved and continues to move. That's not true. It is false, since the Government of New Democracy has abolished this law. Since public deception continues, it is appropriate, Minister, to address you - to put before the House a denial and further clarification, on the basis of what specific legislative framework this prisoner has been released. You must restore the truth. It's a matter of moral policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Good morning, good week. Continue with Mrs. Euthymou from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I am present in this important draft law on justice - and this is where I come from - and I am present throughout the whole of the coronary pandemic and during the Lockdown and now during the gradual lifting of the measures, by making a public dialogue with the social actors in my city, to whom I have invited, for the support measures and how they are implemented, either by making use of the democratic tool of parliamentary control, by putting questions to support groups, in order to process their issues, to transform them into my proposals and to contribute them to the support of government work. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has shown a very effective management of the pandemic. And now we are seeing a very serious effort to restore our economy, firstly, with the support of enterprises that are a very important part of it and the support of workers, because without businesses there can be no workers with the support of work. I would like to say here that it would be in the right direction to strengthen labour law and, in particular, sensitive working groups. Secondly, by drawing up a plan for tourism which will be presented to us, by limiting, as far as possible, the losses we will have, because it is a neuralgative factor in our economy. Thirdly, with the continuation of reforms to attract environmentally friendly investments, a top issue on the government's agenda. Today's bill deals with issues of particular importance, and I would like to say that it is very successful for the Minister to deal with a number of issues which are also based on three axes: the first is the incorporation of four directives, the second, the upgrading of the judiciary and the judicial officers, and the third is the decongestion and the acceleration of justice. I would like to say something important here. This bill is a product of consultation for two reasons: firstly, I hear that the third is new provisions. These provisions are procedural. I am not a member of the committee, but I have followed it and read all the minutes, I have not heard any retaliation of these provisions. So there is, in essence, an assent. Secondly, it is a matter of consultation because at all the meetings of the committee the Minister has shown in practice that he has a hospitable ear, wants and seeks the co-formulation of this draft law with the opinion and intervention of all Parliament's wings. Thus, in the committee on many issues, answers were given. I am not saying all about it, because it is a matter of government policy, and that is why we will be judged. And these answers have two bases. Firstly, what cannot be done, so these objections are wrongly raised by the Opposition. Secondly, these are the demands of social and representative bodies. I therefore think that all other reasons here from Opposition are being put to the vote as a whole. On the substance of the bill, it is very important that the directive on minors is put in place because there is a procedural guarantee and an introduction for their rights. It is important that the right to access the lawyer, the right to information, the individual assessment, of course the separate detention areas, which Greece suffers from. Of course, there is a priority for trial for minors and the right to legal aid. Furthermore, it is important that the directive on terrorism, whose philosophy is to combat it in all forms around the world by continuing efforts and strengthening the alliance of the international community and cooperation and exchange of information. The second axis, as I said before, is the upgrading of judges. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important when we have come out of a memorial crisis and now we have fallen into the coronary crisis, to have justice high. Because justice is the disguise of everyone. This is how feeling of security, of law, of trust in institutions and of the state is inspired. So it is imperative that the state is also up to the judiciary. We who are legislating, legislating in a variety of ways to have them high and to make it easier for them to carry out their work. Thus, it is important to pay waged maturities and wage promotions, to increase the organic positions of prosecutors, which was a consistent request from the Association of Prosecutors and, of course, to establish a peacekeeping direction at the National School of Judges. We who are the fighting lawyer know how much the role of the peace judge has been upgraded, how difficult matters are sometimes called on to judge. They have even thought of important issues. So it's something extremely important. The third axis is the decongestion and speeding up of justice, which is essential. It is not necessary, Minister, as you quite rightly said, only because there will be a huge congestion from this two-month period that the courts are closed down, but also for one more reason. Because of the coronary pandemic, administrative solutions will not be given in some of these cases, so they are likely to end up in courtrooms. I know that very well. As I told you, I have opened a public dialogue through a large number of interventions for large social groups such as working mothers, such as support for our town's small and medium-sized enterprises, such as support for the self-employed industries, medical clubs, taxis and others. So you will allow me to make two more remarks. The first is a proposal, because the legal world has also been very affected by this crisis. At least, to make the return by calling the cases that have been cancelled home. It's important and it'll create a relief. Secondly, I would like to make a point because I am not going to be in the actual debate. In Article 67 on electronic performance - I will not repeat what he says - paragraph 4 is replaced by 'where, at the time of service, the person who has his seat referred to in paragraph 1, performs the service of a judicial curator'. This provision creates an ambiguity as to the existing local competence of judges. This will result in an overconcentration in Athens and a problem of performance in the region and the province. In conclusion, I am voting in favour of the reasons I mentioned, this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs Ephremidis, and thank you for keeping time. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement which I am sure I will thank him for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the bill of the Ministry of Justice, in the wake of the trial for the rape and murder of Helen Topaloudi. It is a case that shocked the entire Greek society. In conclusion, justice has done its work as she knows to do, without any need for intervention from anyone outside of it. This should be understood to everyone, particularly to members of the government. In conclusion, justice has been done. All our wishes are that there should be justice for every victim of crime whose guilty persons are today fleeing. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to this bill. The first part of the bill concerns the incorporation of Directive 800/2016 to ensure the rights of children suspected of or accused of criminal proceedings and criminal deeds. Ladies and gentlemen, ensuring that minors are properly informed, I would say in the midst of a criminal procedure, is a matter for the state and a prerequisite for a fair trial. That's why we're positive about the provisions you bring in, dear Minister. The second part of the bill incorporates Directive 1371/2017 on combating fraud against the European Union. This is a necessary framework. Indeed, here, Minister, it must be pointed out that there are vague and unreasonable formalities and you must see them. Because it will not be possible to incorporate the European framework without clarity into the provisions. The draft law also incorporates European provisions, such as to combat terrorism, to extend administrative sanctions, to breaches of Union law, to misuse of privileged information. Finally, we are positive about the provisions on EUROJUST, namely the European judicial cooperation unit. Likewise, the arrangements for cooperation between Greece and Cyprus in the field of justice and law are also positive through ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the two Ministries of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I will dwell on the fourth part of the draft law on legal aid for low-income citizens and on the procedure laid down for the selection of lawyers. Minister, you know the working conditions of the new lawyers. The problems they face are too many and even gigantic in the crisis of the coronary pandemic with closed courts, closed mortgages, closed services for about two months. Today, Mr Minister, instead of bringing in a real support arrangement, you set the ten performances so that they can take legal action. But that is how you remove, Minister, the material of work from the new lawyers. I would like to ask you: is a lawyer who has no 10 representations in criminal courts, on the one hand, capable of taking any case, on the other hand, not legal aid cases? The conclusions of yours. So here I would say that you yourself understand that the restriction you are putting is unjustified. We heard at the hearing of bodies the proposal to prove the experience of lawyers from trials conducted, postgraduate studies, doctoral and postdoctoral studies. These are realistic proposals, which respond to the reality of the new generation of lawyers. Hold that. Also, Minister, after you make amendments to legal aid, why do you not bring a solution to the real problem of the institution? And what's that? It's the delays in the payment of legal fees. By who? From the state. Remuneration paid after two years. Let me remind you, Minister, that there are lawyers who actually live from individual aid cases. They are therefore forced to provide their work and to grant public credit for two years. That is why a direct payment is needed, a direct payment of the dues. This will be the real part of the institution of legal aid. Ladies and gentlemen, the eighth and last part of the bill contains various and irrelevant arrangements between the Ministry of Justice, many of which were put to consultation and were not put to the consultation. Articles 63 and 64 provide for the ultimate limitation and cessation of criminal prosecution for specific offences committed by 1 April 2020, as well as the limitation and non-implementation of specific penalties. We have seen this process in both the past and the governments of other parties. We saw it in 2005, in 2012, in 2013, in 2016. The aim of all is to dismantle the courts. However, today we have two big questions to deal with. Firstly, has the Court of Justice actually achieved any decongestion to date? And, secondly, how does this provision harmonise with the new Criminal Code? Because with the new codes we already have reduced penalties for actions that have been abolished. And here, Minister, I ask you: have you considered these changes? The decongestion of the courts requires a plan, an integrated approach and not a law for limitations every two and three years. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the bill incorporates in the Greek legal system very important European directives, which should have come much earlier. And here it is your responsibility, as is the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government. However, other heirly provisions give rise to concerns. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Movement of Change with its autonomy and its own narrow voice puts forward the proposals without purpose. We have put our proposals and we expect you to accept them. After all, we have shown that the Change Movement exercises a responsible programming opposition. You come to the road that drew the PASOK, the Change Movement, even though you are ex-immemorial voices. We welcome you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Ioannis Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes. I would remind you that any fellow Member who wishes can speak up from his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good day. This bill comes at a time when Greece, like the whole world, is actually facing one of the biggest - if not the biggest - health crises in world history, at least in the last century. Also, at a time of great economic disruption that no one is currently aware of how and where it will end up. Anyone who rushes to make easy decisions or design things, which do not apply, may fall out. I am saying this as an answer because I have heard from some speakers, such as Mrs Giannakopoulos, that we need to have a very structured plan to get out of the crisis, of which we still do not know the size of the crisis. And no one will know for a long time. I would like to tell you that in this very difficult phase that our country is going through, I expect greater responsibility from all of us, and I also mean the Members. I will displease some of the colleagues in all the parties. Yes, we said to be careful when we come to Parliament, but today, in an important bill that is being discussed, I saw that at best in the Chamber it was up to twenty-five Members, and they should be sixty. We said to be one fifth of the total, but not twenty-five. I will continue to say things as I see them, because we often complain about the deterioration of the role of the Member - and this is a real fact - but do not contribute to this deterioration. I'll go down. So the bill comes at a very difficult time for our country. And it comes to discuss and come up with a decision on the role played by the House, which is legislative work. Previously, Mr. Konstantopoulos, a dear friend from the Change Movement, said about the Topaloudi trial that really attracted the great public interest and rightly. It was a shocking case. The court judged and his decision was respected by all of us. There is no intervention in the role of justice, I said it and Friday in the committee. The New Democracy is a deep parliamentary party. The New Democracy has as many as any other party respects parliamentaryism, since it was created by Constantine Karamanlis, until its current leader, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is the son of perhaps the most important parliamentary man in the last decades. We respect parliamentary procedures, we do not undermine them. On the contrary, some others undermine them. There is a distinction of powers in our system. Other things the House does, votes for the laws and controls the government, another thing the government does is executive power and another thing is the justice that is completely independent. You will tell me: 'Do they always do their duty, as should Parliament and the government and justice?' Of course not. Many times they do not work properly, but not in this particular case, as many of the opposition want to imply. There will never be the government here and this Parliament's majority intervention in the field of justice. Of course, the bill we are discussing today has no shocking things. It is mainly the incorporation of directives and agreements with Cyprus. There are, however, some interventions by the Ministry of Justice, I think, in the right direction, some of the measures to be taken. The Minister, Mr Tsiaras, said that he does not have a special ideological burden on this bill, i.e. he does not express the ideological view of the New Democracy. It is, above all, a ratification of agreements that have been made in the past. What this bill has is that it deals with a number of issues, which is why, from the debate in committee and here, we have not seen much differentiation from opposition either. We're looking, we're doing the hair to find something to fight. However, I would like to accept that no bills should come which bring new amendments and new articles after consultation. I'll accept that. I don't like any bills and it's been done by New Democracy. But in the last week, because I have attended all the committee meetings, we have had too much time to discuss all the new articles that have been added since the consultation of this bill. So there is no question of poor legislation. This bill is moving in the right direction. After all - very much, and I hope that in the end, the opposition will vote for it if it is not owned by a narrow-minded opposition tactic and all this will be done smoothly. What I personally would like to see, because we are talking about the economy, and indeed the economy is our great stress, is how we will be able to deal with important issues relating to how justice is done. The biggest problem we face in the economy is the delay in taking judicial decisions, in rendering justice. And I want to appeal to my dear friend, Kostas Tsira. It will be the Minister of Justice, because there will not be a reform for many months or years yet. To wish him a place - I don't know if he wants it, it doesn't matter, it's not his decision anyway, it's the Prime Minister's - to wish him the great reform that needs to be done in the field of justice, which is the rapid administration of justice. That's where we stick, and that's the big problem. Consider that there is a criminal trial right now - there are many, I am bringing an example - the well-known case of the Post Bank, which has been going on for six years, seven years, has not been solved first and a god knows when it will be completed first. At the same time, people who are accused and may be acquitted are doomed. They'll lose twenty years of their lives and be on the sidelines of society. That's unfair. And there are many such cases. These cases need to be corrected, because I tell you, what investor will come to invest his money in Greece with this very slow administration of justice? It is not a question of fair or unfair administration of justice. She's fair. It is too late, so we must change it. We also need, Mr Secretary-General, Mr Kranik, and better training of judges on many issues, such as economic issues, which are now very fashionable. They do not have sufficient knowledge, so there is a need for continuing training of judges. Take, for example, the assumptions of structured bonds. Have you thought that there were cases of administrative insurance funds at that time that were first sentenced to twenty years in prison and the appeal was acquitted? How is that possible? This shows that these issues were so difficult and complex, that there was not sufficient knowledge of the judges. Therefore, the training of judges must be an autonomous bill and a great reform that this government must do, because it is a reformist government, a government that really aims to improve the lives of citizens, improve the economy, improve our society, and a liberal reformist government, and that is why I support it and, of course, support today's bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u30	And we thank Mr. Loverdos, who also gave us the news as a journalist. Draminos, Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, has the floor from SYRIZA, and then the Minister will speak. Will you speak from your place, Mr. Xanthopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u31	From the seat rather than the seat, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u32	That's right. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, the signatories to the legislative initiative, the SYRIZA amendment, have given me the honour of developing the amendment only and I shall refer here to it. If there is time left for my seven-minute period, I will, as a matter of principle, go a little further on the issue of legal aid. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is well known that the pandemic has brought everything down to the country. We are experiencing unprecedented circumstances, assumptions of social and personal behaviour are being tested for many years, values and priorities of our lives are at stake, and I would like to say that within this framework we must also look at future initiatives, in terms of the sensitive and troubled area of justice. From mid-March, and possibly even by the end of May and perhaps mid-June, the area of justice is essentially suspended. There have been too many cases aborted. All these cases now come to rest, according to legal terminology, i.e. they are outdated and in accordance with the established procedure, in accordance with Article 226 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a procedure is needed to restore them. This means that for non-awareness means that you have to go back and testify with an introductory document called a call, identify the secretary, get a copy, release with a curator of court to come back, relive the cancelled case. We therefore believe that, especially for the pandemic period and as long as the emergency measures are in force, we should become more flexible, protect all those involved in justice, judicial officers, lawyers and parties in many. That is why we propose cancelled cases in the period of suspension of the proceedings of the courts at the initiative of the judge, in other words, that lawyers should be included in the new trial, although the lawyers are not present, because these cases have been cancelled, filled up, supplied, provided for, and then sent electronically to the offices of the lawyers in electronic form. And this e-mail should have a new notification to close the matter, I have not received any knowledge. From there on, the legal association concerned, having the knowledge and extent of the cases identified, will inform the lawyers themselves, i.e. those who have signed the document, so that the case of identification can proceed. And I want to say this: according to the new procedure now, almost all cases are in the bottle. So they may go through without a special procedure in a new billboard on the one hand, and on the other hand they disperse the attention of the legislator and I think only the recognition of beneficiaries remains outside. Minister, with a setup, take care of this, so that not all of them are together, that is, a process outside the board and everyone on the board, so that they have all the plaque and home to be transferred to the new court in the way we talked about it. So, in order not to get far, we are earning time, money, because there is no need to re-enforce and, above all, we are protecting lawyers and judges and judges in pandemic conditions so that they do not come into contact with acts, which may lead to contamination. So this is the amendment we have tabled as SYRIZA Members. I repeat that we are making an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure to be of limited use, that is, only in the pandemic period. Therefore, Minister, I think that with the flexibility that you are aware of and because you know very well that it is a matter that relates to health, public health and it is a way to fight as far as possible - the legal health that your co-rapporteur and rapporteur says - I think you should accept it. I shall end, because I have two minutes and I want to begin by referring to legal aid. We had said that Members who have conducted legal aid are already late. This in itself undermines the institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u34	That's what you had to say all the time, 'cause I'm trying to deal with it, and I can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u35	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u36	Please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u37	I would like to say again that this is what endurances the operation, Mr Minister, because colleagues are not going to do. Don't think, colleagues are turning their backs. It's a very serious problem. I have also asked the committee to do so again in plenary, to provide for legal aid at the court of appeal, to appoint members of the courts of the district of appeal, and not just of the court of appeal, because this is a discriminating discrimination for the legal associations of the other regions, and we have to deal with it. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The Minister for Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today in the debate that is taking place at the outset on the draft legislation proposed by the Ministry of Justice, a little - very much - we have all been placed, insofar as and in the way we should. And by repeating my firm position, the fact that, in matters, issues and bills concerning the Ministry of Justice, we may have to show a different behaviour and a different approach, I say, that the approach and approach, at least on behalf of the rapporteurs and the special speakers, I think it was the approach that had to be taken today. I am saying this very sincerely, because I have listened with seriousness and modesty to the possibly different views and positions of the parties, but basically, on the issues that we have essentially analysed and presented during the debate on the draft law in the committee responsible, at four meetings last week. Before entering the substance of the bill, I would like to reject a specific position, which, unfortunately, has been repeated many times by a number of colleagues earlier, and which has been forcing the government to take misdemeanour. Do you realize that this bill, at least at Parliament's level, is being discussed by a process that we have forgotten? Do you know when the bills have to be discussed with two different debates in plenary, in principle and in the articles? Do you ignore the fact that the public consultation on this bill ended before Easter? Do you ignore the fact that I personally informed, perhaps not everyone, but most of the parties' representatives, about the content of this bill almost from the beginning of time? Of course, there were some articles that came in at the last minute. It is a 'violent' process of social and political reality in which we live, which, if it takes a long time from the conclusion of the public consultation to the final debate on the draft law in Parliament, must obviously include some other things. But are these articles which we have included irrelevant to the functioning of justice? Are they irrelevant to the specific circumstances or problems of a product of time? Ladies and gentlemen, this criticism is unfair. And I say this in the knowledge and all the seriousness we all need to show during the debate in the Greek Parliament. It is unfair, because I think that, especially for this bill, there have been all the necessary deadlines. It has been well known for a very long time to all colleagues - representatives of the parties what we were going to bring and what we were to legislate, much more when, and as you yourself have said, two thirds of the bill relate to the integration of Community directives and the adoption of a memorandum of cooperation between Greece and the Republic of Cyprus. I therefore believe that this debate simply fills the time of parliamentary debates most times and does not have any real object. To come to the essence of the bill, beyond all that, more or less than most of the colleagues earlier pointed out what the framework of the bill is: incorporating four Community directives. Where was the opposition or objection? On some occasions that might have been relevant to the real definition of the minor who has his rights and, of course, may be accused or suspected of criminal proceedings subject to a European warrant or arrest procedure. In addition, the fact that there is a different ideological approach to the directive, especially to the incorporation of the directive on terrorism, and I understand it. Although I must tell you that Greece is the only country that has not incorporated this part of the European directive with Ireland, where you know that there is a party, Sin Fein, in a very special way and approach there. We are the last country in Europe. So you realise that the fact that some have a different ideological approach does not justify the fact that you come from the other side and say that "yes, of course, we must incorporate the directives into Greek law". Of course, the great debate was brought together by the European directive and legal aid procedures. That's where I understand it. There are some issues. I have personally asked the parties' rapporteurs to give me their views in writing. That's not what happened. I'm up against it. However, I understand that there is also a reflection and a more general debate. Where did the reflection focus? On three main issues: What should be the experience of lawyers involved in legal aid? What should be the level of the incomes of people who have the right to legal aid. And to a lesser extent, what should be the level of the annual remuneration of lawyers who are involved in this process of legal aid. I wanted specific proposals from you. But they haven't been filed. I hear with great interest that we should not necessarily have the ten performances as compulsory. And I have given you a concern about the fact that, on the one hand, there is indeed the great need or reality described for the area of lawyers, especially in recent years, and on the other hand, there is the real right - the need for the citizen to need legal aid. And, obviously, the man who will be invited to support him should have at least one experience. Of course, there is another criterion, which concerns the fact that the incorporation of European directives presupposes a minimum quality of the way in which Greece comes to deal with specific issues. So there are parameters that we need to anticipate beforehand if we want to legislate properly. For the third time, I have not received a written proposal from anyone. And I say it, not because I wanted to commit someone to what might be rhetoric it can be supported by taking the step of the Greek Parliament, but because I really want to find the place of the joint agreement where we can end up. To be honest, however, I say again that there was no proposal. So I think we have discussed it through, that we should probably reduce it....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u40	It's registered in the Minutes what we're proposing, we've been through.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u41	We have tabled proposals, so do not hide behind it. You underestimate the parliamentary procedure. You shouldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u42	Please don't interrupt. The Minister didn't interrupt anyone. Let him talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to you. And you, Mr. Kalamatiano. And you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. I heard you very well. However, you realise that all this is being persecuted or, in any case, treated with one study year by all of us. In other words, if we expect each of us to say a different proposal from the Step of the House and in five minutes perhaps to formulate a view, that will not lead us to proper legislation and you know that. However, in order not to stay here, I believe that we can indeed find a common place, possibly limiting half the necessary representations a lawyer needs to have in order to join this programme of legal aid. I mean, we should put a minimum on at least five performances. What are the performances of the main lawyers, the lawyers, are well aware of that. Of course, there is provision in the specific articles of the bill that, from there on, there may be the possibility or compulsion of a number of seminars, in order that there may be greater and better knowledge of all the procedural procedures of a criminal trial. Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that we are in the middle of a piece of legislation which, on the one hand - I repeat - must provide for all the needs, if any, of a different reality that we are currently working on, and the needs of society, the needs of the Greek citizens for what they are entitled to, and for what the Greek state must foresee for themselves. As far as income is concerned, I have not heard you say a specific proposal. Income criteria you said about lawyers in principle, which for me was not something that was specific. We were told to be 12,000 of the family income. To take it to 10,000, so that we are at least on a proper average and not enter into a logic of a possible sort of legislation that would complicate the difficulty on the one hand, but more so would reduce the number of actual beneficiaries of legal aid to a large extent. And I believe that the 20,000 mentioned in the bill as an annual motto of lawyers participating in this programme should be limited to 15,000. I'm telling you this so we can turn it off as issues. I believe that, on the basis of at least what I am aware of with regard to the proposals made by the representatives of the parties, we are close to a common line and, of course, also to a consensus, which has basically become oral with the chairman of the assembly of the lawyers, but much more and more to the real need for Greek citizens who have the right to legal aid. So, and this is an issue which, to a very large extent, I think we are dealing with it. From there on, I do not think we need to make any criticism of the Memorandum of Cooperation, except those that Mr Kalamatiano has mentioned, which we need to predict on the part that concerns the penitentiary system. I therefore think that we are more or less in agreement and there is no question of some kind of confrontation. There are issues, of course, which have been raised in this sporadic way of dealing with the specific articles that are outside directives and non-remembrary of cooperation. So let's go see one - one to see exactly where this whole case is and what we might have to do. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I will tell you that the amendment you have tabled is in the very right direction. I would not say that I disagree in any way with the substance, Mr Lappa, Mr Kalamaianos, Mr Xanthopoulou - Mr Papaleou and Mrs Papalieou are not here - as you have signed it. However, I would also like to say that a special committee has been set up for a long time in the Ministry of Justice, led by the State Secretary present, Mr Kranis, through which we have been trying to anticipate all the necessary procedures for the reopening of the functions of justice. What you are proposing is one of the issues that is already in place. In other words, we can also give you the draft through which there will be an act of legislative substance in order to deal with all these issues. Of course, all these cases will be redefined at home, Mr. Xanthopoulou. We don't have to talk about it. We have no intention of harming the Greek citizens, nor of course of course of course of the people involved in justice. And, of course, this pandemic time has given us the opportunity to develop an experience beyond the intention of promoting the issues of the digitisation of justice. And that is what I think at the end of the day will be the great conquest on which the Greek political system will be founded in order to create better, safer, I would now say to you serious and obvious rules of operation within the area of justice. On the issue that was raised to me and I did not have time to answer on the subject of homology, I think Mrs Adamopoulou had said so at the last meeting of the committee responsible. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, if you understand that, but it is not about the social security systems which are being exercised in administrative courts. In any case, there is a limitation of 50 for the uniformity, and I think you should know that. In the Council of State, which we had often said it was possible for it to have fifteen thousand parties, the process cannot function in the logic of the referendum. One if he wins in the Council of State is actually granted the same right to all who are in the same case and in the same case. Therefore, there are no such issues that one might discuss and which may give rise to reflection or refusal from any other side. Let's go talk about the issue of the National School of Judges, not about the issues themselves, since I think there's no major objection between the parties, as much as the question of whether we could keep the table on an active footing so that the sixty-five new positions of the judges proposed in this bill can be met. I think that to a large extent we had exhausted the debate and I really am very surprised that my colleagues are coming back to an issue which I think is well known. The examinations at the Judiciary are held every year. They're not pacifist tests. It's not a state-owned law school exam. They are exams repeating each year. No one doubts the procedure and no one doubts the high level of the whole procedure and the indigence of the examinations by which someone is admitted to the National School of Judges. The fact that we were going further in the practical direction for the peace judges at the Judiciary I think he accepted everyone's positive remarks. From there on, however, to say at the moment that we are extending the existing list of new organic positions, I think that in fact, beyond which there is a serious possibility of this competition falling into the Council of State, it also raises various other questions in relation to the deterioration in the procedure of selection and the education of judges. In other words, we want to make a fast track section new, with half a procedure in order to win the time, for judges who will be the remaining thirty-five years in Greek justice. Is that what the parties suggest I understand? And I don't say it with refusal. I told you from the committee's Step last week that one of the first issues to us was when we completed the sixty-five new organic posts was whether we could have been able to cover these sixty-five new judges from the table. There was, therefore, a huge issue of legality, because there were indeed eleven of them, who knowing that they were a certain number of successful ones - that was what the first competition mentioned - did not come to the oral procedure. This in itself, Mr Kalamatiane, when the state comes to say that it is not a hundred ten, but it is a hundred seventy-five at last, it actually deprives these people of their right to continue to participate. And that is where there is a serious reason for nullity on the part of the Council of State. This is a debate which I personally, but of course all the partners of the Ministry of Justice, have done thoroughly at the Council of State. Of course, one could not jeopardise one of the second series we are talking about, but much more so in the first competition. As regards the extension, for which Ms Konnaka insisted, of the elections in the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors visited me on 30 July 2019 and had nine requests: Increasing organic positions. You got it. Amendments to the new Criminal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure, taking into account the proposals. You got it. The abolition they wanted for private mediation did not take place. Immediate coverage of empty peacekeeping posts from the current table. You got it. Promote the request for the establishment of a peacekeeping direction at the National Court School. You got it. Immediate incorporation of wage maturities and pensions. You got it. It's over, too. Examination of the possibility of increasing the number of Presidencies in a number that corresponds to the presidencies of the Athens, Thessaloniki and Piraeus Court. It's done, too. There are two more unsolved requests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u44	Can we have this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u45	Sure. I've submitted it to a previous bill, Mr. Kalamatanne. It's not something that's out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u46	He said something down there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u47	No, there's nothing that's different. If you mean freedom of access to the "Isocrat" of the Athens Bar Association for judges and prosecutors, you will solve it, as a lawyer, along with your fellow lawyers. And the latter was a remuneration for judges who participated in disciplinary boards, as planned in 2013. These are the nine requests. Whenever you want, you can have them. I shall submit them for the Minutes too directly, anyway, so that there is no such matter. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As for our ability to enter a debate that would substantially extend to the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, when it is a joint union, when it is not a trade union, when it is not a legal person governed by public law and when it is not a rural or pharmaceutical cooperative, as previously foreseen, Mrs Konnaka, it would be an intervention. We, too, would not like to do so. We have never done so on any occasion so far, we will not even do so in the future in any other case. I'll be able to come back. However, I would like to make it known to my dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this. The effort made at the Ministry of Justice in recent years has had a concrete plan. It is a plan to tackle problems, pathogens, which come from the past and a plan for reforms and changes concerning the present and the future. Recent experience taught us much. The fact that Greek justice was held up during the pandemic period, with whatever problems they have encountered, I think it is proof that we are moving in the right direction. Yes, Mr Heta, I also know that we need to increase, in essence, the sense of credibility and the proper functioning of Greek justice for all Greek citizens. Is there anyone in this Chamber who doubts what is necessary, which is absolutely necessary? Of course we all have to. However, this will be done in the context of some serious reforms, which I propose to the House of Greece, and which I believe basically will be adopted or, at least, the positive attitude, so that we can all work together on a framework for justice which will, of course, have a direct effect on Greek society and on Greek citizens, in addition to the problems that can be solved. And I quote here: the special circumstances, Mrs Giannakopoulou, concerning the ultimate end, essentially, of the persecution of offences or, in any case, of imprisonment offences by one year, are a need now. Do you want me to tell you if it pleases me, if I like it, whether it is consistent with the rule of law? Oh, no. Who doesn't know that? But when, for more than two and a half months, the Greek courts do not function and there is a huge amount of such cases, imagine how great problems it will create for major cases, which to a very large extent may also determine a social reality. I would also like to assure you, however, that in the next few years - already there is a bill in the public consultation on procedures for speeding up justice - we will try, by means of reforms, to create a framework that will actually endure time and help Greek justice to take the next steps. Already mediation could have worked if we hadn't had the coroner quarantine. There are already proposals to set up special departments in the large primary courts and tribunals in the country, which can deal with a number of cases, mainly concerning investments. We are already trying to create an address, the 'JustStat', which is the statistics in the field of justice, which will be a strong, important tool in the hands of any Minister of Justice in the future, but also of whom, if you wish, the administration of the Supreme Courts, in order to take decisions with a programming and specific data, which we cannot at present and do not have. All of this is part of a specific framework of reforms, which I think we should all try together for the next day and for Greek justice and for Greek society. I shall, of course, return to the end of the debate in order to respond to anything else that other colleagues might wish to put. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u48	Thank you too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Lappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For lawyers it is always of great interest and special importance when Parliament's bills for the Ministry of Justice come to Parliament. Since the first day of government change, since July 7th, I personally addressed both the Minister and the State Secretary and said, "Don't do what you do as the first move in the field of justice, because you will find it in front of you." What's that? The transfer by a Presidential Decree on the day following the election - on 7 July we had elections on 8 July - of the entire penitentiary policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection, because European law, European legal culture, the European acquis, wants and imposes prisons as a third pillar in the system of awarding criminal justice, essential criminal law, criminal law, and the creation of penalties, i.e. prisons. He wants it, because it's a matter of justice, not a matter of security, at least. So we told you, Minister, that you would find it in front of you. I know that some time ago there was a European meeting of the Ministers for Justice on penitentiary, including issues. I would like you, Minister, now to be the Minister you have in your area and the penitentiary, so that we can actually discuss a penitentiary policy worthy of the country, which is worthy of the prisoners, who deserve justice, which is rewarded by the Greek society. Now look at what's going on. In the sixth chapter of the bill there is the famous memorandum between the Ministry of Justice of the Greek State and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Cyprus. This memorandum includes, among other things, - listen to this, it is a crook! — Article 1 of the Memorandum: 'The Parties shall cooperate in the field of justice administration, the functioning of the court and the penitentiary system'. In other words, the Minister of Justice here brings an amendment, a Memorandum Directive with the Republic of Cyprus, to an area that does not have competence. So the penalisation of Article 1 must go, because it is the subject of Mr Chrysochoid. And I told you, Minister, since 8 July that you will find it before you and at European level in the country. You now find it in the memorandum between the Ministers of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Cyprus. Penalty isn't in your duties. I would like you to be in your duties, because I want you to be the Minister of Justice of the Government. The first is that. Secondly, you have attempted, Minister, to say that the introduction of this bill, of the bill, is nothing but what the opposing parties have said, that it is an act of maladministration. Well, that's not a good piece of legislation. And, indeed, I told you that you would once come and tell the House that the presumption of innocence will be lost by such a legacy. And you lost it today with this bill, not mostly because 1/3 of the bill was out of consultation, but why the consultation within ten days, in a pandemic, of dealing with such a sanitary throat...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u50	The consultation was before Easter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u51	Yeah, I know. In March we didn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u52	Now we're a month and a half later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u53	Minister, don't talk about it. On 16 March it was the first decision of the restrictive measures. I remember it very well. I read it online and made comments. So I say that the Ministry of Justice must be the bright torment of good legislature, it must be the driver of all the ministries, of all the bills and of all the ministers. You cannot tell me, "We also had some emergency provisions...". I get it. I understand that. But be one, be two or three. However, 1/3 of the bill cannot come without consultation, especially when it comes to the legal community, lawyers, judges, judges. Do you know why? Because the sense of law stems from this legal community, Minister. And I think you understand that, even though you're not a lawman. Here I would like to open a parenthesis and say that medical science is no longer classified as natural sciences, as it used to be, according to the pyramid of science. Fortunately, it is now classified as legal in the humanitarian sciences as well. I'm closing the parentheses. You told us in July, when you brought in the first amendments, that the institution providing social benefits is temporarily suspended. The judiciary year 2019-2020 is lost, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u54	That's what you're right about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u55	And when? Do you know why? Joint work, along with all the amendments and the new spirit in the promotion of penalties, brought by the new penal codes, is the distillate, if you like, or the abstraction of legal thought for decades in our country. Of the largest and brightest spirits of the legal community, university professors - not to tell you about Manoledakis, about Antrolakis, about Mrs Kastanidou, about Argyropoulos, about all - great spirits, teachers in legal schools brought one, indeed, new creation. It could be flaws. It is, however, a huge achievement if you take into account - and all my fellow Members must take it into account - that the previous code had been alive from 1824 to 1950. Responding legal committees were therefore made to become a new code that meets the needs of societies after World War II slaughterhouse. One hundred and thirty, a hundred forty years! And the new codes, after 1950, when did they come? They came in 2019, after seventy-five years. They don't make codes every day. But do you know what my objection is in a general sense, as we speak at first? Now I am referring above all to Mr Kranis, who has a better view of what the coherent fabric of a code of criminal law means, because criminal law, ladies and gentlemen, you must know that it is the last fort of a state's sovereignty. All the others have now been diffused in European integration and in the global community, which, by means of conventions, either at European or international level, have become internal law. What remained in the countries after 1950 was Criminal Law and Criminal Justice. It was the last fort of absolute national sovereignty, and that is what comes down because we are, in fact, obliged to introduce directives on matters that our Code has already dealt with, and in particular the new codes. So, for public work, Minister, I would like to emphasise and write in the Minutes - the new codes by providing socially beneficial work as the main penalty for avoiding socialisation, in order to avoid incarceration, for a series of small and medium-sized crimes were essential, so that the country does not come every two to three years and make this shameful - and I say nowadays, shameful - discomfortful - choice by circumventing penalties and'removal of penality' of a series of crimes. Because there is no other country I think in Europe, which every three or four years is forced to come and make such legislative choices. It disgraces democracy and the kind and prestige of justice. And I'm saying it over time. I'm not criticising it's your choice today. However, if you had brought the public-private work along with the prediction of abstention from criminal prosecution, according to the new codes, we had the criminal order for a number of provisions, that could benefit, weaken and leave a great deal of the hands of prosecutors and judges and would not have been forced today by the Greek state to bring such a provision. And it does because it seems that you still did not understand the importance, scope, effectiveness and consequences of the arrangements brought by the new Criminal Codes. The new Penal Codes are a huge achievement. It's also about crimes, it's about penalties. We need to understand and embrace the Greek state first. It cannot be the only country in Europe today that does not have the foundation of socially beneficial work as a primary penalty. It is the only country in Europe, when, for thirty years ago, it has been operating in our country. I understand you want to improve it, as you told us in July, but, Minister, it spent a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u56	You're right. I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u57	We're the black sheep. This cannot continue. Make a decision bold and fast. So I'm closing this. Minister, I heard you say things, and then I told you, and now I say that human societies, when they opted for rigour, whether as a provision of laws or as a penalty, have never improved the charter of crime. Do you know why? Because in the French Revolution Montesque said something terrible, which the Greek state is implementing in many - others say in part - "The rigour of the laws prevents their implementation and implementation." Unless we consider the Hamurabi Code or the Lykork Code to be a modern European country that would be Greece. Nor did they then save their own country and social cohesion. It is not an answer to rigour at any level of discussion about Greek justice. I'm putting this off, too. Minister, will you leave the provision of the penitentiary system in your Greek Ministry and Ministry of the Republic of Cyprus' Memorandum of Cooperation of Greek Justice? It's inappropriate in the void. And the penitentiary system, you can't do it because it exists at the Citizen's Department. Mrs Nicholas and Mr Chrysochoidis will handle this. That's where we got it. Take it off. It doesn't make any sense. It's in the void. With regard to decongestion, Minister, I was telling you before that if the state was once seriously discussing what we want from criminal justice in a European country today and about the description of crimes, at least what is disturbing, as we say, by means of specific acts of insufferable social goods and social cohesion - unbearable, not neutral acts or small and insignificant gravity. - they're not interested in a modern Greek state. We are interested in middle and heavy crime. We are concerned with dealing with all the alternative forms of punishment, as I have said before, and serious crime, as decided by the state in question. But when we discussed our own similar dissident provision, which reached both years - badly, in my view, but it was a terrible situation in the penitentiary stores...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u58	You at least recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u59	Because if you were now responsible for the penitentiary system, I would tell you that everything that is strict creates the so-called vicious circle. Our country has had thirty-five convictions over the last ten years - you know why? - because he cannot elementally rationalise and humanise the conditions of detention of the detainees and is convicted and is the black sheep. In fact, in the case of penalisation in the list of judicial authorities and the rule of law, do you know where we are? Third from the end. After all, it is only Albania and Turkey. Not in the countries of the European Union, in the states of the Council of Europe. That is why I am telling you, and I told you then: seek, Minister, as the Minister for Justice, to remain in history and return the penitentiary policy where its area is concerned to the Ministry of Justice. The extent of the penalties cannot be the right to security. How do we do it? We've studied in universities, we're lawyers and we're listening to justice. It's not there, it's not foreseen anywhere. Only in the Netherlands is foreseen, but not because it is an option, but because the Ministry of Justice is integrated into the Ministry of the Interior, like the Ministry of the Interior is the Ministry of Public Order in the Netherlands. In no other state in the Council of Europe, only in Greece. And it was the first option you made the next election. I cannot understand that, I cannot accept it, and I will emphasise it in every speech in the House. I shall close, Mr President, with an observation that I wish to make. First of all, let me not forget to tell you that I hold, Minister, an alpine impression from direct assignments to the decontamination detention shops, etc. Not for the disinfection, but what did it remind me of? I was reminded by the two companies, which took place on the same day that they took the assignment or the previous one, the CEDEFOP system, where in the morning became the site and at noon they took the money. Because I handled this in the health field, that's why I mention it. Not to return the CEDEFOP system to Greece another time as a rule of law, that is, a concept of social rule of law. Don't do it. Don't do it again, anyway. But I keep this and I only remind you of it. He told us, Mr President, - and I conclude - Mr Javaras, when we made the decongestive choice in 2016, quite rightly and mentioned a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which was catastrophic against Greece, the Michelidakis case, where he cannot, he says - I will tell you what the court said in a few words - a citizen who goes to court to exercise the right of legal protection in accordance with Article 20(2) of the Constitution, legal protection, not to end up what he wants and claims in the name of the Constitution and the state takes it, to cut it down, to deprive him of it. It is a very morbid, negative choice and we thought that after the introduction of the new codes that would stop. Mr. Javarras said so, and I just mentioned it, to see that in legal science the devil is hiding in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u60	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u61	You will see in the article a few things you bring to the instructions that they are completely inconsistent with the provisions of the Criminal Codes in force. For example - and I close - it is possible, Minister, that we have other limits to incompetence in a directive from the code that we voted on some time ago in 2019? Eighteen is completed and downwards there is a limit in the twelfth year. Under the twelfth year, the Greek state and the Criminal Code are no longer interested in the violation of children under the age of 12. It is only the responsibility of his education to integrate him into society as a whole, because this is the process of adulthood. And you come and tell me now: 'without a downward limit and under the eighteen years'. It completely contradicts Article 121 of the Criminal Code. There are many other things like this, which I would like to point out in the debate. However, I close with only one phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u62	The third is closed, Mr Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u63	I'm closing, Mr. President. Before Mr Hetas, Minister, said something and had an interest - I do not do it, not because I miss the courage, but because I lack the hope - that everyone will once stop getting involved in criminal trials that are under way. He mentioned something that the Attorney of the Office said, that justice prevails and the world should burn. It's not just the prosecutor's talk. Ferdinand I' once said, "Fiat iustia et pereat mundus", "Let justice prevail and the whole world be burned." In other words, he symbolically wanted to say that even the world was lost, just as long as justice lived. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Lappa. Hebrew Stavros Keletsis from New Democracy has the floor, and then Mr Kamine, the Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Keletsi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the area of justice and the specific bill, as the Minister quite rightly said, are not offered for some kind of political confrontation. And I am pleased to be succeeding in Stepping in with the parliamentary representative, Mr Lappa, who is involved in a number of joint committees - indeed with his knowledge, who has also contributed to a creative dialogue on the issues that we are discussing and which we are always looking for. Of course, what is the point? It is to have justice in society as quickly as possible. Indeed, justice is one of the pillars of democracy and our Constitution protects it with the principle of separation of powers. In this principle, we must be absolute and political power, the executive must in any case respect the Constitution and that principle the basic principle. On the occasion of the sensational case of Helen Topaloudi, a girl from my homeland - and forgive me and emotional burdens, because it happens to her father that we have been acquainted with her from the student years, to be friends and the charge is double, because I too am a father of children who are studying - I have the feeling that society has felt once again that justice has actually been done. And it is unacceptable that voices in the memory of the dead - the dead girl - are heard from some aspects and I think that they have fortunately not entered the part of political controversy. These are very marginal views of some citizens and they are condemned. On the occasion of this case, of course, it also opened up a debate on the question of the independence of justice and whether or not the policy should be involved or given an opinion on the decisions and views of the judiciary. We must be in this absolute. Justice shall be independent, the judicial officers shall operate independently, the judicial decisions shall be respected, the public prosecutor shall have its own independence and an opinion. Comments, especially on political aspects, should be limited, when one has one status, but on the other hand, we should not deprive citizens of the opportunity to comment and to express opinions, such as those mentioned earlier by Mr Lappas - and in private places such as Facebook - on how justice works and the attitude that justice should have in relation to a case because this is part of democracy. And let us not confuse them, but respect the independence of the judiciary and the way in which the judiciary is operating, the prosecutor who will propose that we have, as citizens, a scientific and theoretical view of the way justice is given in general. As far as the issue of the bill concerned is concerned and the issue of the misrepresentation which has been heard and brought about, I think only the Minister's position and attitude proves that we do not have in this particular case and because the consultation, which was exhaustive, was preceded by the prior consultation, but also because, in this dynamic process of dialogue, the Minister, together with his colleagues, has accepted most of the proposals made on the part of the Anti-Population, not just the Greater One, but also the other proposals. What is in the right direction is accepted and this shows that there is indeed a different culture from this government in accepting the views which are documented, which are correct, so that it can improve - as much as a legislature can - a piece of legislation. So, let's not come specifically to this piece of legislation to say there's a bad piece of legislation. The amendment which has been tabled concerns the area of justice again. It is in the right direction because expanding the number of people from whom you will choose for a very qualified position that wants very specific knowledge - and I am referring to this issue of the prosecutors of economic crime - gives you greater opportunities to choose the best among more skilled. It is therefore a good amendment in the right direction. From there on, what I think is important today in this bill - and it is the main body - is the incorporation of directives. The fact that we are coming late will have to look at it in the future, that we do not have too much time to incorporate European directives - from 2016 onwards - into the Greek legal system and in Greek law, because this delay also shows a delay in adaptation, in a single approach, in relation to what is in place in the European Union. I now have a point of order. In 2005, I must tell you that I was the rapporteur at the time - Minister was Mr Anastassis Papaleguras - of the 3346 bill - if I am not mistaken - who, for the first time, had raised the issue of limitations on certain offences. We said at the time that this solution is temporary, and it is intended to dismantle the courts. And we knew, it was the constitutional debate on the issue of constitutionality in terms of the creation of penalties. Because this is a question of intervention in justice in the widest sense that a penalty has been imposed and we are coming back to say that this penalty will not be fulfilled. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] So since then - and this is what I will close, Mr President, so I would ask you to have your tolerance for this proposal only - three others were followed - I think, in 2012, 2013 and 2016 - similar legislative interventions, and that is now the fifth one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u66	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u67	I have to tell you that I understand the necessity, but I think we will be more honest by doing a more systematic job, Minister, and perhaps this ministry should do so. We must sit down and discuss what those offences might have to be exempted from criminal justice, so that justice is not troubled. How many working hours, how much in both money and people and in hours is it not lost to get a case in order to make the call, get the defendant to come to court, much more to be convicted, to say that he is not serving the sentence? Let us see what these crimes are, for which criminal hell is not required, they are not required to go to the criminal court and remove them from the Criminal Code and thus dismantle the courts from an unnecessary matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u68	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u69	This is where I'm finishing. In the end, what's going on? Here, too, we come as a parliament to recognise a social reality. What's the reality? What is criminally tampering, what is morally, socially unacceptable, we come and give a criminal character. So let us come back and re-evaluate such cases, get them out of our criminal system, from the penal code system, and do a more systematic and organised job. I believe that this will be done for your day, Minister, and by this government, because we are really doing reform in all areas, and justice is an area that needs many reforms and we are already moving in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, we have time pressure. So far we've been doing well, but Mr. Lappas has taken Mr. Keletsi too. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement now has the floor, Mr Kamine. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I will speak very little, so perhaps I will compensate for the time that has passed by my colleagues. The first point I wish to raise, Minister, concerns consultation. You know, there was a great excess because we said that almost a third of the bill was made up of provisions that did not go into consultation. But it is not just about you and this bill, it is about the government in general. I have witnessed here in Parliament, here in the House, too many bills finally come to us completely different from the text that has been consulted. Consultation is something which, in my opinion, is very important and has two main aspects: it has a legal aspect, because it helps in the legislative process in a comprehensive way, but it also has a very important political significance, because it strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the legislative process. It gives citizens and every citizen the right to express his opinion and to be satisfied that he has at least heard. As far as consultation is concerned, I hope that in future the phenomenon will not be repeated to such an extent, that is to say bills which a large part of their provisions have not actually passed through the consultation process. Then we must also see in the light of recent events whether it was right - because it was a matter of creating a super-Citizen's Ministry of Civil Protection after last July's elections, which we are seeing gradually operating, such as the octopus caught in the troop and cutting off its own tentacles. We have pointed out since then that this supervising ministry could not do its job either in the field of immigration policy or in the area of civil protection, when the bill came to us later. And this was actually the case at the end of the day, and the Ministry of Migration Policy was created, after many regressions of the government, and in the end this super-Policy Secretariat that was in the ministry and which we had denounced. At some point, we have to do the same with the prisons. If we continue to believe that the issue of our penitentiary system is penalisation and reintegration, that is not something that the Ministry of Civil Protection can do, at least. By definition, the Ministry of Civil Protection has a repressive character. Reintegration, however, is much wider. So, at some point, this irresponsibility - this huge irresponsibility again within European legal culture - must be lifted. We are already seeing a slowly incomplete and erroneous, even this repressive policy chosen by the government, integrating prisons into the Ministry of Civil Protection. We learn that now in Korydalou prisons, unprecedented phenomena are unprecedented, such as prisoners themselves putting locks to prevent the penitentiary guards from entering, but also the murders of prisoners from their prisoners. We saw it in Larissa the other day. So the moment will come when this will have to be corrected and the sooner, the better. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kamin. Mr Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis has the floor now from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Hatzigiannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u73	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely tell you that I am not one of those who believe that the Minister of Justice must save and well be legal, as should the Minister for Health does. I am one of those who believe that we who are here must and can deal with all the issues, because that is what the Greek society has given us, and we must study, but also listen to experts in every area, whether you or we should implement, or we should legislate. Nevertheless, because I have heard Mr Kamine too, I would like to say that I fully agree with his position on the importance of consulting the legislature. And, unfortunately, the experience I have at least - without that, of course, acquitting the previous governments, even for mistakes that may have been made in ours and the previous ones - has not satisfied me. As a new Member since July I have had the honour of attending these benches, I cannot say that I am satisfied with how we understand the consultation and how we give it to society to understand it. Because we must not forget that one of the main roles we all have in here is to be or must be examples for the ordinary citizen. And if we ourselves cannot give the good example, then not only will what Mr Hetas said, that is, there will be no confidence in justice and the political system, but we will not be able to convince anyone about anything. Therefore, Minister, despite the fact that I understand that the administration is something that is going on, and that is why the conditions that are being created must be taken into account, which also force you to bring much larger bills, I would say that the Ministry of Justice must in particular avoid this. Mr. Lappas is right in what he said, that the Ministry of Justice must be the beacon of good lawmaking. The Ministry of Justice is conquering our legal culture. As you said today from the Step of the House, because I listened very carefully to you, it is a conquest of our legal and political culture that this bill is a little - very politically neutral - it has no ideological mark. But this is a conquest, Minister, and it has not always been the case. Penalisation was the result of politicians, ideologies and policies at the outset. So the fact that we have arrived in 2020, and at least European culture has conquered being understood as self-evident, does not mean that these were self-evident throughout history, not even in recent times. And I'll explain what I want to say with that. I have heard before my colleague in the New Democracy who said that the European directives should be incorporated and that it should be quicker. You also referred to this. I'll agree. However, we cannot be a European salt card. In fact Greece is one of the pigs in the part of criminal and penitentiary treatment. You see countries like Germany, which is not a communist country or socialist governments in recent years. Probably closer to your positions. Nevertheless, how he perceives the criminal assessment and respect of the criminal courts and how criminal judges and, of course, the legislators see the treatment of criminal acts and how they respect them is seen by all the rulings of the constitutional courts and the highest courts in Germany. It should therefore be a lighthouse for Greece. Unfortunately, this is not the case. And what I'm going to argue with this friend Spyros Lappa is that this has not only been done in the last ten years. My experience - which is not so great of course, but at least since 2001 I have been mainly in the criminal courts, I have had the luck of being able to be in the criminal courts - says that it was not self-evident to protect fundamental rights in the Greek courts. It also has a responsibility for legislative power. It's not just the court. Because the court will follow our own lawmaking. So when all the countries of Europe, or at least what we want to say 'European civilisation', face punishment and penalisation as the most important part of the criminal procedure, we too must follow. And of course, as Mr Kamine quite rightly said, this super-demand that you slowly created in the summer you have degraded it. Political Protection is gone, Immigration Policy is gone. In fact, you have made autonomous ministries. Time to return the penitentiary policy to the Ministry of Justice as well. It is not meant that the penalisation and reintegration of people into society are carried out by the Ministry of Civil Protection. But I will make a very serious comment, Minister. I think that your position was too poor in relation to the incorporation of the Terrorism Directive. No party here - and I want to be clear, and I want to end this story - is not in favour of terrorism and does not suffer terrorists. Let us be clear! This is another issue and references are being made here to Sin Fein and Ireland, implying - at least that's how I understood - that some parties in this House have privileged relations or want to have privileged relations with such behaviour. It is another matter of defending the presumption of innocence of all the people involved in legal matters. Mr. Secretary, believe me, I have met in my little career too many children who have been dragged as terrorists because they were found at the wrong time, at the wrong time, with the wrong people. They were acquitted with their first trial, but had eaten two years of his life at the age of 20 or 22, the most creative, the purest age of their lives, in prisons. And it is our duty not to allow that to happen. And it is a duty not only to legislate that we must do, but also to do so with the example and the message that we must send to both the prosecution authorities and the judicial authorities. Because they're listening to us, don't think they won't listen to us. Justice may be independent, but it listens to us very well. And to tell you the truth - and to close with it - it is often refreshing or trying to refresh exactly what the political authority in question wants. So it's our duty that no human should go to jail, not to spend some time in his life there, while he's innocent, and then come back to fix things that are not corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen - those who are here - our rapporteur mentioned the bill in detail, so I will begin with the reference of the rapporteur of the New Democracy in the previous Plenary Assembly, according to which the government does not pay attention to the small parties, reminding him that Greeks today - I stress, today - but the Greek Solution was also voted on by hundreds of thousands of citizens, who are not at all few and want to give them importance. After all, the role of the Greek Solution in Parliament, namely the control of the Government, its responsible proposals which are often adopted, as the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy has recently confirmed, or the increase in the Public Investment Programme today, at EUR 8 billion, as we have proposed, is a very important task. So we consider that these kinds of reports from whoever comes from. Fortunately, I am pleased to note that the Minister for Justice does not share such views. What matters is not foolish references, of course, but where Greece is being driven after ten years of deep crisis and successive memorials, which have been documented as producing poverty and impoverishment, along with plundering and the robbery of our country, where all production resources are gradually being removed. Even worse, Greece's extremism is escalating, among other things, because of excessive taxes, even for families with two children, where Greece - according to the recent TAX Foundation report - is in the second worst position among all OECD countries, as we will present in the Minutes all at a later date. However, the conclusion from the TAX Foundation's report is as follows: the significant family tax burden on labour in Greece and Italy is exacerbating the problems of infertility faced by both countries. The high tax burden on labour contributes significantly to leaving the country of qualified scientific staff and managers. In simple terms, taxation does not allow for the birth of children in Greece, while low wages drive Greeks abroad, resulting in the decline of the indigenous population and the depopulation of the country, whose demographics are - in our view - the problem of 'number 1' at this time. At the same time, illegal immigration continues without anyone preventing it. On the other hand, laws and European directives, such as today's, which facilitate illegal immigrants, are adopted by providing them even interpreters with our own financial burden. Logically, therefore, the final result will be the alteration of the population, since the Greeks are being reduced and the illegal ones are blessing our islands, with the help of Turkey and with the support of uncontrolled NGOs, while the government is moving them to the mainland by creating settlement structures and leaving a gap to our islands for the influx of young people. At the same time, our homes are being auctioned by those banks we saved with our money and our businesses are being sold out mainly to the Germans who will hire cheap illegal workers to better suckle their colony. The ultimate disaster! We are better off, unfortunately, describing the crime that is taking place in Greece. As far as the JRC colleague, who accused us last time of voting for the EastMed bill, obviously, we know that it will not happen, since Italy did not sign up, we have not declared an EEZ, and Turkey has already vaccinated it by registering an EEZ with Libya illegally. However, it would be irresponsible to support the mining of our energy reserves in this bill rather than pipelines. What will they be transported with? But, of course, that does not mean that our policy is the same as that of the New Democracy. On the other hand, we differ greatly, because we believe in the free mixed economy, where public and strategic enterprises must belong to the public and all the others in the private sector, so that there is a balance, that the state is not blackmailed and that the New Democracy is properly redistributed into neo-liberalism, where all businesses belong to individuals, with the JRC precisely on the counterfactual: all businesses in the state. Our differences are huge! In addition, we are in favour of the greatest adequacy of our country as far as domestic production is concerned. We insist on changing our economic model, which gradually turns us into European caravans and we believe in the national state and not uncontrolled globalisation, such as New Democracy. We are opposed to the multicultural societies promoted by the New Democracy in Greece, contrary to the policy of resentment, as far as Turkey is concerned, and many other things that are mentioned in our programme. So it's wrong with my colleague's charges. Let's go to the bill now. We are constantly adopting Community directives without even knowing how many countries they have implemented them and how each country is, and it is clear that laws which are necessary or effective in one country may not be in another. Just here, in that there is no size that suits everyone, the great weakness of globalisation, where the European Union is certainly its micrograph, at the same time as the fact that the international committees are not accountable to anyone, such as the example of the World Health Organisation recently. Starting now from the first part of the bill relating to the rights of minor criminals, we see no reason to adopt such laws in Greece, since there are already several provisions and the problem is relatively limited because thankfully the Greek family is still working very well. Greece has a lower crime than the other countries of the European Union, with the first of Belgium, France, Spain and Portugal - as we will testify later in the Minutes - and so its needs are not the same, hoping that we will never become a Europe with regard to these statistics. The cause of the adoption of such laws is, therefore, that we are unfortunately invaded by our country's violent settlement by illegal immigrants who are being promoted by Turkey and who are very often only minors. They don't have travel documents or they just disappear, and they come from completely different cultures, usually having offenses. Given that Greece accepts the largest number of illegal immigrants from third countries and because of the Dublin Agreement, a large number of asylum applications - as we will also present in the Minutes - an important part of which comes from illegal people who say they are minors, we certainly do not need such laws. In any case, the laws in force in Greece for illegal minors cannot be the same as those in Lithuania, which have no influx or the luxurious Luxembourg. Furthermore, if there are no laws on expulsion, we will be charged with a very large cost of imprisonment, with their free legal support, with interpreters and so on. This cost is not usually recorded by the General Accounting Office of the State - we are always looking for it - and mentioning, for example, that the cost of child imprisonment in the United States was doubled in 2019 compared to 2011 at $ 284,700 per year per adult or almost $24,000 per month, as we will deposit in the Minutes. Does the government really understand what this means to a bankrupt country with a new deep recession before the gates and at the front of the fourth memorial? Obviously the rights granted by the directive, such as psychological examination, etc. They are right and fair, but they are costing, so at least the European Union or the UN should take care of them and in no case Greece should. In conclusion, the second part of the bill concerns the incorporation of the European directive on combating fraud through criminal law against the financial interests of the Union. This part is at least funny when countries of the European Union, such as the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg, are literally acting as black and white-washing machines or even ‘legal’ tax evasion. In this respect, despite what is said about Greece, Italy and Germany have the greatest tax evasion in the European Union in absolute terms, as is shown in the table that we will be tabling in the Minutes. Greece is next to Denmark and Sweden. It is completely too much what is commonly said about Greece, accusing the Greeks. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] Furthermore, Germany is the fourth most corrupt country in the world - we will also file it in the Minutes - with most of the violations of economic legislation, while the Netherlands is considered by the United States as the main country to escape profits from American companies. We'll testify to the Minutes and the evidence. According to an article by the Dutch newspaper - which we will also present in the Minutes, of course, because we do not want to mention anything without being able to document - the multinationals moved almost $22 billion on copyright, that is, through the Netherlands, also known as the Netherlands from the "IKE" tax evasion system from its Caribbean tax haven colonies, as well as Eldorado Gold, who, while destroying the Skourias, destroys nine companies, "writing boxes", as they say, in the Netherlands, with funds of €1.85 billion relating to its activities in Greece. Instead of checking for all the things we have mentioned, not having the right as a washing machine in Europe to prevent the financing of pandemic costs together with Germany - these two countries are mainly blocking and coming after Austria - bills, such as today, in Greece, when tens of Greek companies have at the same time transferred their headquarters to the European Union, either because of the memoranda, or for tax reasons. In conclusion, in the rest of the chapters and in the articles we will be referring next time, but stressing that the retrospectives of the judges in Article 61 are a challenge compared with the other pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, will the Minister take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u77	Mrs Raptti had asked for the floor after Mrs Villardo, as far as I know from the previous Vice-President who was chairing. If it's not so urgent, no objections. I'm just putting it in this House, so we can get in touch. Mrs Rapti asked for the Secretary-General's request. There is a large list - you know that very much - Members who fail to speak. I am presenting to this House the usual practice we have been following, allowing a parliamentary to speak, one, two or three Members and emblems and the Undersecretary and the Minister - of course the Minister spoke - and also the parliamentary representatives. If you so wish, Mrs Rapt, to take the floor, because you may have other obligations or time pressure, to give you the floor, I have no objection. I'm just putting that thought on, that's what I'm thinking. If you want to do so, that is to say intervene between parliamentarians, State Secretarys and Members. Because I'm telling you, it's still twenty if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I would have no objection to giving up my position - it is true - to any of my colleagues, but I would particularly like to have the floor today because I have an unsuccessful obligation at 14.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u79	All right, we will give the floor to you, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, then we will give the floor to Mr Tagaras and then the State Secretary. Does the Secretary-General want the floor to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u80	One clarification will be made because we committed our colleagues to the draft legislative act...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u81	All right, all right, Minister. Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, our rapporteur has been thoroughly developed by this draft law, which concerns the incorporation of the five important European Union directives into our national law. This incorporation, as has been said and made clear in this House too, is another incorporation that has been delayed because it has been an obligation and a loose end that the previous government has inherited us. Unfortunately, this time-consciousness of the late adoption of the European Commission directives has also continued on SYRIZA. We must not, however, lose sight - and this was understood in the debate before us - of the fact that we have all agreed that this timely bad habit should once be eliminated if we are, of course, to operate as a modern Parliament in a state of law of the European Union. The Ministry of Justice acting within this reasoning and in order to avoid further delay, as Greece was the last country to incorporate these directives, took the product of the Preparatory Committees of the previous government and step-by-step - into the draft legislation under discussion. It did so, as the Minister rightly said, in the context of the continuity of the state but also with a further intention of improving it through the debate that took place during the four committees and, above all, the debate before us. The government is moving with open mind and firm steps aimed at strengthening Parliament's speech and role and respect for the dialogue that is evolving within it. The Minister himself just now spoke before us about his clear intention to reconcile, not only this, but also other draft laws with the opinion and intervention of colleagues from all sides of Parliament, so that we can all help in this effort to reconstruct our citizens, those who are listening to us, a quality justice and a justice that really serves them. If that's not a clear intent of proper legislation, then I don't know what it is. Today, then, after too long perhaps since 2011, as it has been said, we have returned to proper lawmaking rules. Not only proper rules of legislation, but essential rules of participation in the parliamentary procedure. I am referring, of course, to this possibility of discussing today and Thursday in detail the articles of the bill, a process which we all know had been forgotten for a long time. In particular, with regard to the incorporation of the directives, I will briefly state that the first Community Directive 2016/800 ensures those specific procedural guarantees for protecting the fundamental right of children, who are either accused or suspected, in a fair trial. It introduces specific regulations both for the access of minors to a lawyer, the right to be informed and the compulsory individual assessment of each child separately, which, of course, has not happened until now. Finally, it imposes what we all know is problematic in the Greek legal system, the detention of these children in separate areas, which is essential for their protection. The second Community Directive, 2017/1371, concerns the fight against fraud against the European Union's financial interests. As has been heard, the Union is promoting common, substantive and criminal provisions in all the Member States in order to protect its property effectively, as it is the property of its own Member States. This is how this criminal protection of the European Union's property is used to protect the property of the Greek State. It shall be standardised as a criminal offence both cross-border VAT fraud and inaccurate statements or illegal receipt and retention of grants and benefits. The third Community directive is a directive to which I should like to pay particular attention because it concerns the fight against terrorism. Here I would like to point out that these provisions complement an important gap in the international community's efforts to build an effective tool to tackle the phenomenon of terrorism and also to strengthen this international cooperation, which we all know is necessary, in the prevention of terrorist acts. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that terrorism is violent, reprehensible and dangerous social crime because it denies the concept of the rule of law on the one hand and, on the other hand, the principles on which the social and political organisation of all the civilised nations is based. He refuses all the centuries of struggles of humanity that led to the conquest of individual and social rights, and removes in the most arbitrary and brutal way any protection of legal goods, of life, of health, of the property and of the security of citizens. It is no accident, as we have seen from time to time, that terrorism ceases to have an autonomous domestic character, but it is becoming increasingly international and cross-border, which requires coordinated action between States, of course, through the consolidation of legislation and other legal practices, that is to say, what is being done today. So criminal offences are rightly standardised as criminal offences, the organisation, the facilitation of travel with a view to terrorism, as well as the stealing, extortion and forgery related to terrorist activity. Specific provisions on international cooperation and access, collection and transmission of such information on terrorism are also laid down in order to enhance the effective prevention of such acts. It is, of course, unnecessary to say how important it is for our country that we are now legislating on these issues, for our country that has deep wounds and wounds, as it has been lamenting for decades the victims of severe and inhumane terrorism. We are today legislating for the living, but the principles and values that we incorporate into Greek law, the cooperation we establish with the other states is a tribute to the dead, those killed by the hands of the terrorists. We are today legislating for everyone, for everyday citizens and also for Paul Bakoyannis, Thanos Axarlian, Dimitris Angelopoulos, Nikos Momferratos, Michael Vranopoulos and all our other unfortunate fellow citizens, as well as foreign nationals of the states who have fallen victim to terrorism. In this bill we are finally taking special care of the victims of terrorism with free provision of appropriate medical care immediately after the terrorist attack and for as long as is necessary. This benefits include both the psychological support of these people and their assistance in the conduct of actions for damages. We all remember how the victims of terrorism were tortured with damage to their health, respondents, motor problems, mutilation and dissolution of their professional lives. Recently such a victim is the former Prime Minister of Greece's transitional government, Lucas Papademos. The state has an obligation to stand by each one of them by constantly strengthening them in practice. For all these reasons, therefore, we are now giving the signal that we are actively and without reservation in the joint effort to legislate the European States against terrorism and we are emphatically committed to this implementation of international cooperation. As far as the fourth Community directive on legal aid for suspects and accused criminal cases is concerned, I will only make one comment. This right to legal aid has been established in Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and in Article 6 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. The purpose of this Directive is to ensure the effectiveness of the right to access suspects and accused persons to a lawyer, as well as those wanted by a European arrest warrant. This lawyer, as we have of course heard, will be rewarded by the Member States of the European Union. I am going to go through the last directive, which is the fifth criminal sanctions directive, and the legal persons for whom market abuses have been committed. With regard to our memorandum of cooperation with Cyprus: it has indeed been prepared by the previous government and is based in the fields of administration, justice, law and the functioning of the courts. The cooperation between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Cyprus on these issues is considerably upgraded. Finally, the other provisions contained in this bill, namely the performance of wage maturities, I have already heard from the parliamentary representative, Mr Villardo, that it is essentially a provision and a paragraph which should not apply. A judicial decision should not be put into effect. However, our conviction, ladies and gentlemen, that the judgments of the courts must be respected. Such a decision was precisely the 209/2018 decision of the Court of Justice which should be attributed to the judicial officers and the main staff of the Law Council of the State, all the wage maturities due to them. Further provisions are contained in the bill concerning, as we have heard, the increase in the organic positions of judges. This is because the government believes in strengthening the effective functioning of justice. In a specific period as difficult as this is, it is very important to strengthen the judiciary and dismantle judicial material. Finally, another important section - which I too as a lawyer and having served justice for over twenty-five years - is the intersection with which a new direction of peacekeepers is now being founded at the National School of Judges. So, for the first time in 2021, we will have peacekeepers, who will be specially trained and qualityly upgraded for the performance of their operation in view of all this large volume of affairs and the new conditions that have engendered in the market. One issue, ladies and gentlemen, to which many have focused, is the question of predicting the proven experience of lawyers who will take legal aid in criminal matters as a prerequisite for the assignment of the case to them. Really, how safe can the citizen, who has the right to legal aid, feel when he supports the case of someone who has no experience? So what the Minister has put before us, despite the trade union nature of this request - which I understand, of course, because I come from a legal family - is that five representations will now be required in courts in order for a legal person to be able to obtain legal aid. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by stressing the urgent need to modernise the area of Greek justice, as has been said by many other colleagues, so that it can be done more quickly. Having served as a lawyer in its award, I can surely, Mr Minister, tell you that the citizens are asking the political system over time to speed up the time of this award for the quicker resolution of all the differences that are tormenting them. We should focus primarily on this, so that we can make a creative contribution, with proposals to resolve pathogens and not often with sterile criticism. The circumstances require us, the representatives of the Greek people, a different concept, a synthetic concept, a concept of progressive and consensual, if we want to strengthen the functioning of the rule of law as far as possible. That is why I call on you to vote on this bill to incorporate these important directives into our national law and to heal some of the chronic diseases of justice, significantly strengthening international cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u83	We will give the floor to Mr Tagara Nikolaos from New Democracy and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Kranis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law we are called upon to vote on integrating European directives into the ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation with the Ministry of Justice of Cyprus of 7 June 2018, as well as additional provisions that speed up and improve the functioning of the justice administration. I am not legal science, but I believe that the provisions of the bill that we are discussing crosses all sciences horizontally. That is why, for example, I am going to refer to points of this bill. We increase the protection of the rights of children suspected or accused of criminal proceedings or subject to a European arrest warrant procedure. Suspects or accused minors may themselves be informed of the charges against them and of their rights, as well as of their request for the lawyer to deal with their case. At the same time, they will also be entitled to legal aid, which until now only applies to low-income citizens. We also predict that the minor will be assessed by a special agency, with regard to his personality, the economic, social and family environment, as well as his physical and mental situation. Incorporating the relevant Directive 800/2016 in the best possible way ensures the right to a fair trial for suspected or accused minors, while at the same time strengthening the confidence of Member States in the criminal justice systems of the other Member States. We are effectively protecting the economic interests of the European Union. The property of the European Union will be protected criminally, just as the property of the Greek State is protected. This means, in fact, that the provisions of the Greek penal code concerning offences such as forgery, theft, embezzlement, fraud will also apply if the offence is directed against the European Union and the penalties provided for, namely, imprisonment, imprisonment and penalty. With the proposed arrangements we are improving the management and distribution of the European Union's resources and assets for the benefit of the Greek State as well, with a direct beneficial impact on Greek households as well. We are effectively dealing with terrorism in all its forms, everywhere around the world, and we are strengthening the international cooperation of the states. We provide that acts that promote or support terrorist activity, such as organising or facilitating travel, stealing or blackmailing or forgery for terrorism will be treated as criminal offences. We are also taking special care of the victims of terrorism. Immediately after the terrorist attack, they will be given free medical treatment, psychological support, but also assistance when conducting actions to compensate them. We are modernising and promoting the institution of providing legal aid to criminal proceedings and procedures for the execution of European arrest warrants. The new regulations clearly define which legal aid beneficiaries are and are included in them and the indictments shall be included, provided that the economic criteria and limits of penalties laid down by the law are complied with. The conditions are laid down for the appointment of a lawyer or a lawyer for legal aid and the provision that the remuneration may be lower than the statutory fees provided for. In addition, lawyers are instructed to organise annual training seminars and for lawyers in legal aid of criminal matters. With the proposed draft law we also ratify the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights of our country and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of Cyprus and we upgrade and broaden our cooperation in the field of justice and law. At the same time, we are improving the functioning and procedure of the judiciary, modernising the relevant legislative framework. We are speeding up the administration of justice and increasing the organic positions of judges and prosecutors by sixty-five since July this year. For the decongestion of legal material, we are introducing the suspension of the criminal prosecution for offences for which a penalty of up to one year is provided. This regulation, however, excludes crimes with particular socio-ethical apathy. They shall be tampered with and sentences relating to offences for up to six months shall not be executed and their penalties have not been discharged. The record of the prosecutors is thus cleared up by the large number of irrevocable decency sentences and the prosecution authorities will be able to focus on the execution of penalties of more serious crime. In order to speed up the administration of justice and reduce procedural costs, a document may also be served by electronic means. The School of Judges is set up and operates a separate section on the training of peacekeepers, which is also required by the increase in the volume of cases. With this arrangement the function of the peacekeepers is upgraded and their role becomes even more dynamic in Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is undoubtedly an important pillar for the proper functioning of both the Hellenic Republic and the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The provisions to be adopted and the incorporation of European directives will bring about a significant improvement in the functioning and administration of justice at national and European level, thereby guaranteeing the rights of citizens indisputably. Because for every rule of law it is of paramount importance that citizens trust in the judiciary function of state power and for all the higher reasons, I am voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u85	The reason is the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Kranis, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u86	I will not concern you, I will be very brief. On the occasion of the amendment tabled by the Qualified Opposition, I would like to say that it was set up at the Ministry on the initiative of the Minister of State, of course, a committee, to which I have the honour of being chairman, with various other members as well. I do not need to speak by name. At the initiative of the Secretary-General, too, an informal working party was set up involving teachers, Mr. Kalavros, Mr. Chandinis and Mr. Giannopoulou. We have asked for their assistance in the way in which justice can, as economically and safely, be reopened. Today, I will tell you very little about the reopening of the civil courts, namely, civil matters. The rapporteur's contribution, of course, has been important, decisive. We made two meetings, even lawyers from the Athens Bar Association and other lawyers, a combination of views. I won't go into the details, because if many of you aren't legal, it'll be a little tiresome. With regard to the part of the house - which has been heard many times and which is of interest to us - the reinstatement of the cases: a provision has indeed been made for those cases that have been cancelled or forbidden for alpha or beta reason, and for them to be reinstated electronically without additional costs. What I'm about to testify to you is a draft. It will be included in the MAGP, without prejudice to the fact that there will be no other proposals, perhaps some uncertainties have not been understood and will need to be completed at the last minute. So I come back to the fact that we have a return to the cases that have been cancelled from home. It is what is of interest and we therefore also share the amendment tabled by Mr Kalamatianos. In this wavelength there are several clarifications. I do not have to say for individual procedures now. However, the same applies in general. For the periods suspended, at the point where they were suspended, they shall run from 1 June until they are completed. The second parameter taken into account to draw up this draft - because there was a risk - is the safest possible medical protocols for reopening the courts. So that we do not have too many cases on the same day in the secretaries, then, the proposal was made, in particular, on the part of the administrations of the courts, that at the time the deadlines expire, there should be another 30 days so that everyone does not get together at the end of the time limit for filing documents, mainly in disputes. I omit a few other issues. It's technically, you'll see. A proposal to dismantle the pacifist courts from the jurors is for this transitional period - what we are talking about is transitional, that is to say, until 1 June to 15 September - the possibility of affidavits being drawn up in a legal office, not a proxy, but a third, with a certificate of signature. We'll see. It's a proposition from the lawyers. What I would also like to say to you and, possibly, is that the auctions are cancelled until 31 July 2020. The holidays of August also take place. Therefore, for auctioning, we can talk from 1 September onwards. The cases that have been cancelled are not sure that they will all be tried. It is impossible - as you can see - within the two fortnights. There will be a provision from the court administrations as far as possible for them to be tried in these holiday departments. As you can see, however, it's not important for any judge to be charged with fifty or sixty cases and to take them out after four months. It's the same thing to break them into two tried men. The proposal that has also been made by the lawyers is that the interest in the case should not run. We'll talk about it. It's probably logical. Also in relation to this first mediation debate it is being carried over for 1 July. So, until then, there is not that obligation for the first debate. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We're on the list. Mr. Mylonakis Antony has the floor from the Greek Solution. Mr. Mylonakis, just a minute to make a relevant decontamination.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u88	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u89	Do you want to ask anything about what was said by the State Secretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u90	Yeah, just clarifying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Mylonakis, would you mind giving my colleague a minute or two?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u92	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u93	Here you go, Mr. Xanthopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u94	Wait a minute. Just clarifying, Minister. Will it be included in the MAGP that you issue or accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u95	He's going to join the PSP. She's ready. It's total, it's right from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u96	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u97	He's going to join the PSP. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers. I will begin, Mr. Secretary, with what you have said about the auctioning of dwellings. The suspension will be until July 30th. You will allow me to say that it would be preferable to go by the end of the year to have the time to discuss what will happen with the HERAKLIS project. This is a position of the Greek Solution, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u99	I told you about the auctions in general, not in terms of procedural deadlines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u100	He explained the procedural procedure. The political process is different. Procedural, as things are evolving.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u101	Minister, we will all agree that the fundamental pillar of democracy is justice. No one has doubted and I do not think there is any objection that we had the opportunity to discuss the changes made to the Criminal Code here a few months ago to bring legislation which would not be contrary to and which would not be contrary to public opinion. And I'll explain it to you. With the final judgment of the court on the rape and brutal murder of Helen Topalude, the judges stood up to the circumstances. For the law gave them the right to punish with the strictest of the sentences, which has our rightful system, that of the equitable syllable. Now be careful what the world says, Minister. Life imprisonment is life imprisonment? She said so shortly after Mrs Koula Topaloudi, mother of Helen Topaloudi, who lost her child, she will never see it again in such a violent and inhuman manner by two rapists - murderers. We here in the Greek Parliament had legislated for life. But life is never lifelong. You remember, Minister, what had happened, especially from the Greek Solution, which then forced the Ministry and the Government - here everyone remembers - and it was a matter of confrontation that, since the stricter sentences for criminal offences such as this are life imprisonment, it had to be life expectancy rather than life ten or fifteen or twenty years. And we know very well that, after six or seven years, licenses begin. So you see that, when we legislate, justice, according to our own legislation, Minister - and you know it very well - is on trial. And what we should always think is that three things we have to do here, so that justice can judge fairly. Why all the people say what? "I will go to my natural judge to find my point." Firstly, we must legislate clearly and without asterisks. Excuse me, but that's not a lesson I'm doing. It's what public opinion says. Secondly, the judges should be qualified, law-abiding, legally excellent, and, of course, the School of Judges and Prosecutors to do their job as it does. That's right, and pacifists have to go through this school. Thirdly, the political system should not be brought into justice. The two of these three met at the Topalud trial, unfortunately. First, that we've legislated for life, but it's not life. And every time we talk about killers - rapists, we have to think about this girl, Helen Topalude, she was our daughter. Minister, you are neither legal nor I. But you have, beside you, law-trained lawyers, a high-level judge, honest. As regards the third, we have seen that some of the political leadership and, indeed, the government - it does not matter whether they are MPs or whether they are ministers or anything - have tried to drop the 'poison' against the prosecutor, who said her opinion and made her proposal. You see, then, that all that we bring together each time we have to be sure that they do not stumble on reason and on people who are waiting for justice for fair trials. You brought a bill consisting of eight main parts and, of course, some other provisions. No one doubts that some of the articles are in the right direction. But there are instruments and provisions, Mr Minister, which seem impossible to have in a system such as ours. Because we have spoken of European Union directives, I would remind you of two of the directives. One was a 2016 directive. We paraphraseed it and bring it in 2020. She's the one with the road assistance. The other one is the one with age. I'm going now a few years back to the rape and the brutal abuse of the little Myrtad, who hasn't even been up from the chair yet, the child hasn't returned. But then Pakistani, who had declared himself to be a minor, was four years older, Minister. Do you remember that? We tried him by the law of minors, sent him to the penitentiaries of minors at the airport, and after a few years we saw that this man was four years older. So you see that some of the provisions you have brought and some other articles should not have brought them into this bill and should not have been voted on, regardless of whether the European Union obliges us to do so, which - I say again - does not oblige us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u102	The next speaker is Mr George Kotsiras from New Democracy. Mr. Kokalis will be followed by Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr. Gregoriadis. Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking for the first time in this House in the course of this very great epidemiological crisis experienced by our country among all the countries of the world, I would also like to congratulate the Greek society, the Greek people, on the responsibility with which it has so far been faced. I would also like to congratulate the government as a whole and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who, from the outset, informs, informs and stands in a very great effort that we are giving, and society and the political system, in order to get out of this very great global epidemic crisis, which obviously also has the corresponding economic implications. At a particularly difficult time, then, we are discussing a draft law on the extremely difficult and sensitive area of justice, a proof that the parliamentary procedure is continuing and the initiatives of the government on institutional matters are continuing and going smoothly. At the same time, of course, a "relevant" bill of the Ministry of Justice, which also relates to administrative justice, is an initiative to strengthen the whole initiative in the body that the government has designed for the area of justice. These initiatives are an integral part of a wider effort to enhance its effectiveness and credibility. Its smooth functioning is undoubtedly a security test for citizens and a guarantee of the rule of law and democracy. A large part of the bill under discussion, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy and other colleagues have said, concerns the transposition of Union legislation. I note here that we are often talking about the integration of EU legislation in a fairly formal way, although the integration of European law is a very important legislative process. Indeed, our country has been delayed both in the time-printing of this part and in its quality many times, and that is why there are similar problems with regard to the European Union. Incorporation with quality and quality of incorporation, however, differs, and that is where the national legislator is judged. Because the directives generally give the framework, they give the room for the national legislator to be able to adapt from there and beyond to achieve the objectives set by the European Union. I believe that this bill and its incorporation into national law in relation to the directives which it is called upon to introduce, achieves this objective and has truly incorporated the provisions of the directives in a proper and proportionate manner, contributing to the result and contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the European legislator. The interest in this bill is that it concerns issues that at times European law is more fragile, such as parts of the third pillar relating to the criminal proceedings. So the criminal dimension of crime and criminal justice are under the umbrella of European law, so there is a greater and more complete approach to European legislation. It has already been mentioned that it concerns the fight against fraud against the financial interests of the Union, since they are, as a whole, protected and the interests of the European citizen, who helps to make it possible for there to be a European budget and European money, which is nothing more than money provided by European citizens, to be protected against fraud proceedings and illegal procedures which fall within the criminal law section. It concerns, obviously, parts relating to legal aid to suspects - accused in criminal proceedings. In this way, in my view, a more complete approach to European affairs and to pieces of criminal law is achieved. The question of legal aid has also been raised here. In my view, the Minister's response to the comments made during the debate that took place and in the committees really shows that there is a very rational, serious, proportionate and consensual way of legislating. There were answers to all the pieces. I think that, especially in matters that are of common objectives, which are common to all of the political system, the opposition must often be a little more targeted. I also think that the part of the decongestion of the judiciary was a necessary breath in this period of very critical and very unfavourable jurisdiction, which has also been pressed in turn because of the coronary crisis and obviously cannot be the only solution for the normalisation of judicial proceedings. However, at the moment it is also an addition to being able to dismantle the wider system a little. Let us not forget that our country is being tempted by the issue of the speed of justice. There are convicts of our country for violating Article 6 of the ECHR for the award of justice. This, if I may, is not just about the criminal trial, which is rightly brought into a more rational approach and is trying to take a step towards the approximation of laws, but also about administrative justice - as I have said before, I see that there is a forthcoming bill that will help in this direction too - which is also directly linked to investment. We often see regular administrative courts with many delays. There will also be an effort to ensure that the entire process of the judiciary can become a greater step forward in the years, which will also contribute to the confidence of the Greek citizen. Furthermore, service by electronic means is a step in the right direction, because it helps to gradually digitise the procedure before the courts. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry shows with moves like these that it perceives the digital dimension of justice as a major objective. Because if we do not enter this modern age, and if that is not the difficult period for us to take such an opportunity, I think we will never succeed. I think there is a great potential to strengthen all possibilities, electronic teleconferencing, further possibility of electronic lodgement of documents, digital procedurals, electronic tracking of the course of all cases, electronic monitoring of plaques in real time and other procedures that are very useful for speeding up and modernising justice. For the School of Judges, it was rightly said that adding the direction of peacekeepers is in the right direction, because the peace courts in recent years have taken a large and very complex piece of court materials, and that is why further training is needed and the officials who are doing this critical work. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that I consider myself to be self-evident, since modernising and strengthening the effectiveness of justice, a very critical asset, are key elements in a democracy, priorities for government work as well as today's, but also such processes that strengthen the sense of trust of the Greek citizen in justice, are in this direction, in this sense, in this joint effort. The government and the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, have demonstrated that they are acting responsibly, decisively and consistently, solely on the social needs and the protection of the country's interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u104	The next speaker is Mr Vassilis Kokkalis from SYRIZA. Warm request for speakers to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the expression'return to normality' does not fit reality itself. When thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises do not have access to liquidity, when thousands of jobs are lost, when bills do not comply with the rules of good legislation, we cannot in any way claim that we are returning to normality. And I'm explaining. Our disagreement, Minister, is not why we are voting 'yes' in the texts of the directives. Many of these had also been worked out by the previous government, such as the direction of the peacemakers at the National Court School, e-performance. Of course it's positive. Our disagreement, if you have noticed - which you will certainly have noticed - lies in the fact of the procedure. Because it is crucial for restoring the relationship between the citizen and the state, the word of confidence. You said before: 'But are we not going to bring what we are bringing?' No, of course not. It's just not urgent. Proof that they are not irrelevant, but for you it is urgent, is the procedure under which this bill is passed, by way of derogation from the same legislation as yours. I am referring to paragraph 9 of Article 63 of Law No.4322/2019, which says that paragraphs 1-8 above do not apply when it comes to urgent or urgent bills. And I ask: is it considered urgent - is it not legal aid - to be unrelated? Are any other issues considered to be urgent? I think it is to your credit that what you said about the amendment of the Officerial Representation's amendment on the functioning of justice, which is suspended. For something, however, I will be reproaching you, it is the positions of the participants in the recent competition. But I leave it for the end of my speech. Where we disagree - and we disagree with real arguments, not because we disagree with the substance of legal aid - it is the procedure. Note: The institution of free legal aid is an institution of exceptional law, meaning that it must be dealt with in the light of the "excellent rules", that is to say it must aim where the citizen really needs, because the rule is the free choice of the natural lawyer. Now look at how this institution is in danger, and indeed it has a social purpose, to be at the expense of the citizens. You said before that we don't have any proposals. But our rapporteur and the committee have mentioned specific things here. Firstly, if - as far as this institution is concerned - for the lawyer there are no incentives, it will not work properly. Households. Immediate liquidation of debts. To include vulnerable, really, population groups, disabled persons, those who are in danger of losing their homes in auctioning. At the same time, however, we also need to motivate those who provide the service, Mr Minister, because otherwise, the relationship between a lawyer and an order will become a formal one-off process, with the result that we have formal trials. So it won't be for the benefit of the citizens. Secondly, as far as the number 10 is concerned, I have sincerely expected a justification. In other words, a lawyer who has ten performances a month is considered sufficient. The microbiologist who has nine analyses, or the surgeon who has nine, is not sufficient?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u106	You did not hear what I said in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u107	I really need a justification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u108	I personally explained it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u109	Minister - because you said we did not make proposals - follow what the lawyers said, with the seminars.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u110	So what do you think? What's your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u111	You'll get the floor later and you'll answer. I come to what you have said about the participants. Mr President, first of all I said that you were honoured by the amendment of the Officerial Vice-President. You said at the end of your speech, there's a serious chance of being canceled by the S.H.E. I ask: do you say that as a lawyer you are not or as a Minister of Justice, who is not allowed? Honestly, I, despite the fact that a lawyer, will not dare personally. But what am I going to do about what you're afraid of? I will invoke decisions of the Council of State which they considered to be of legitimate interest, Minister. It's 2743/2017. It's the 3403/2017. It's the 3408/2017. And it is in full plenary session 2453/2011. Of course, the decisions also have minorities. We have to see them, listen to them. But where are we disciplined? The majority of participants and participants in a decision-making conference. These people, Minister, are not asking for a favor. They're successful. And I would remind you that by law in 1996, exactly what these people are asking for has been done. Article 6(9) stipulates that those successful in the contest at the National School of Judges, published under No. They are entitled to apply for registration within 10 days of the date of entry into force of this Agreement. It's Law 2408/1996. I am sorry - and I am closing - that your fear of a possible cancellation of the administration's act for recruitment is not an object, because it concerns only eleven successful ones, which is at the limit of organic positions. I think you'll see it cool and see it again. Why am I saying that? Because these people don't ask for a favor. They're successful. They're not hired. And what did we say? Rehabilitation and recovery of confidence now is crucial for returning to normality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u112	Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, all the 'other provisions' - all of which were many - entered the bill after the consultation was finished. I think this alone deprives you of the right to say that this bill is a bright example of how to legislate. It is true that compared to other, much worse ladders on which we have arrived, it may seem as oasis that two days are given for a bill. But - it is an appeal - we must not forget the 'absolutely normal' nature in here, and we must all come together to come back there. I will not go into your bill in detail, as Mrs Bakadima did. In fact, he did so with such a skill, which has also caused you a slight irritation, and I will say it, mainly, to look into your papers and your advisers. I will just say that we are not at all sure that this draft law adequately protects minors. And we are sensitive, because minors, even when they are criminals - small criminals or more serious criminals - are self-proof, one would say, that they are not responsible for their crimes. They are minors and therefore still blame those who define how they act, that is, their parents, their influences, their schools, their lack of access to schools, their lack of parents often. So we are very sceptical about whether and whether minors are really protected from this bill. Finally, because I have heard - and, indeed, I have always listened with caution - that you have complained that the whole opposition does not contribute to proposals, I would like to say that a small technical stumbling-up has taken place. We have made proposals and many proposals. You already got them, I think, now. Unfortunately - and that is why it is not your fault - we submitted them a little late on Friday, that is, after the afternoon, where they would be very difficult to distribute. The committees were done. However, Minister, since we are here and you and you have already said your good intentions and said that you wish there to be a composition and proposals, our proposals are here. In three days' time, then, where we have an article debate on the bill, it is indeed a good opportunity for the government to show that it is not just words that it wants to contribute the rest of the forces. If you find that, indeed, some of them give solutions that you may not have thought about or that they specialize solutions that you have already considered better, please adopt them. So I am ending with the bill, as as a Parliamentary representative I always have the will to discuss topical issues, but also general issues. There are a number of questions I always ask the government. There are not many of them from the government and, indeed, the relevant ministers, the Ministers for Labour, Economic Affairs, etc., to listen to us. Most importantly, however, he is not the Prime Minister to listen to us, because he is the principal responsible and the man who is supposed to give answers. And we want to answer the first question that we will always ask until this story ends, which is what is going on with HERAKLE. So what about HERAKLE? Are you determined, ladies and gentlemen, that you are really determined at the very time when our country is going to go to hunger, the wild hunger, for our people outside, which will be generalised - I want to say what will catch the whole people over the next few months - on the basis of all the international elements and internal elements that we have about how our country is going to go, while the Greek people are already hungry in a small place, perhaps big, but in its entirety it is going to be hungry in the next few months, to find themselves in a very difficult position - not to use such expressions as 'dead' - is it going to live beyond difficult, you are going to be determined to give 12 billion euros in predatory funds? Really, it's a surprise. And it seems to us that a government officer has not answered this long that we are talking nonsense, that we are saying spoonfuls, that 12 billion will not be lost, because there will be this way that we have not imagined, so as to avoid giving them. There is no way and you know that, apart from the one we are proposing to you - and we have proposed it in an amendment two months ago - which is an act of legislative content, which will say that 'due to coronary and other things, the draft 'HRAKLES' will cease to come into force. It would be advisable to consider adopting the plan of Mera25, "THESSA" I mean, which is a much more human-centered project than the "HRAKLIS" project, which I would like to remind you in passing was tried with a huge failure in Italy. Also, I ask you another of our well-known questions: Will you finally get a loan or will you not get it? You'll get one. We say you'll get it. If you say you won't take, say you won't take, say it's a subsidy. You know well how ending subsidies, ending gifts. They never existed. Eleven years we know the institutions. Eleven years we know the illegals who have occupied the European Union and who are completely illegal. I am thinking of the Commission and the Eurogroup, which are not always provided for in any convention establishing the European Union and which have set them up by the powerful states to do their thing. Eleven years we have known them and one thing we have learned about them: they have no compassion and no analgesia towards people. So what are we waiting for? What can we wait for? Are we going to get a loan without prerequisites? Yeah, because there'll be the post-requirements. What are the post-requirements? We've told you. See you again. It'll be quite specific. It's gonna be a loss of wages, pension cuts, tax increases. We are able to know that if we are very lucky and are not visited again by the coronary from September to October, these measures, that is to say, cutting wages and pensions and increasing taxes, will necessarily take them in spring. If we are unfortunate and the coronary visits us, you may be a little late, because, as you know, analgesia has its limits and I do not mean yours, but above all Europeans and, secondly, yours, who are ideal prisoners. We don't blame you for a moral automobile. For ideal captivity, we've been accusing you for so long. As you can see, these prerequisites will be taken no later than two years, because it will not be possible to get them when the coronary takes lives. But they'll be taken. The European Union will order us. He will say: "Okay, you guys, you've been underdeveloped with 15% last year, but this year you can't be underdeveloped with 10%, be back at -10%. You have to go to 4%. So take cash." Fourth, self-righteousness? This is the most beautiful title we've ever found at Mera25. And, of course, I'm talking about the squares, Epirus Square in Kipseli, the square yesterday in Thessaloniki, even the square of Agia Paraskevi, where it really is depressing to any neutral observer that a government is officially trying to convince so many days that we are not at risk in planes, where we will be sardinized in a closed space of three hundred and four hundred people, but we are at great risk when we find ourselves in Epirus Square in Kipseli in an open space of twenty-five people. Also, the government itself is trying to convince us - it also asks for no apologies for the mayor, of course - that it does not harm gathering a thousand - five hundred people in Omonia, but is damaging to gathering twenty - five in Epirus Square in Kipseli. The government itself is trying to convince us that it does not harm people, the MATs doing business, I must say, of special forces, that is to say, depriving them of cats, hiding behind porks, and the houses nearing by dragging, agreeing with the authorities to cut off light, cut off electricity in the square and surprise twenty-four young people who beat them and make them unscrupulous from the wood - we saw them, they saw pictures of them and their eyewitnesses, the residents of the houses, say that the very way things were done - and the next day, twelve hours later, we ask for other of these twenty-four people, what escaped from the mania of MATs. And here to say in passing that I have no problem with their MATs and their men. I've told you before that we're not giving them you. They're popular poor children and they're by definition our children, they're left-wing children. We have a problem with the leadership of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which makes MATs remind other times. The same MATs were on SYRIZA some time ago, they also did things unauthorized, but they did not reach that level. We're not talking. They have their part in responsibility here, too. Of these same children, who have suffered this amazing attack of MATs - which, as our channels show last, the WOKs, where they show various amazing exercises carried out by the Greek army, show the MATs how they close a square, how they cut off the current and rotate into the woods of minor children - from these minors the next day, twelve hours later, the same government, which told them 'I rot on you, because you must not be twenty-four people in this square in open space', tells them to go to their school where they will be 30 people in closed space and they will also rip out. I'm sorry about the expression, but that's how the kids do at school, whether they go to high school or go to high school. So it is obvious that these are pretexts, that in fact - fools are not, we know very well, you are quite smart and you have wonderful brains within your potential, great people - so it is an option. It's not nonsense. It's a choice of authoritarianism. Fifth question: what about LARCO? You remember the past 'LARCO'. LARCO informs you that it manages deposits of between 20 and 22 billion, which for some strange favor of luck there are only in Greece. You see, we have deposits, of which 90% are available for our poor, humble country from all over the European Union, according to calculations. Is it not strange, then, that this company should be closed after a lot of mismanagement of boards, from New Democracy, PASOK, recently by SYRIZA, who have clearly mismanaged the company? But the company is a gold mine, it's a vault. That's obvious. It contributed to the annual budget over the years before you had a problem of 300 million net currency in a country that is four times bankrupt. Also, these people are working - I inform you - under inhumane conditions. If you see one day how these people work, you will understand that we should morally never fire anyone - whomever individual gets it - and feed them on the way they work all the years they have been able to work. Also, what tactic is this? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall finish soon, Mr President, although I have one more minute. I've never seen the seller singing his act as a problematic one. I mean, if I want to rent a house and a mess of it to be, I'm gonna hide the humidity, I'm gonna say that these rattles are good here. Here is a Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, who, a year now, ten months, comes out and says that "Larko" is a mess, is problematic, is not saved. Is that a way to sell? An investor will come to her, that is, to 10% of her value. It's not a way for Mr. Hatzidakis to be smart. I don't think it's nonsense. She's smart. I suspect, then, that selling under the table is pre-aggregated, and it must be priced with depreciation so much that it is free of charge - I am sorry again for the market expression - for the lucky man who will find it, who God knows whether to use it as a production company or to make it a vehicle on the Stock Exchange to salvage it. Finally, I will end with my dear colleagues in the broad sense, the technicians and the cleaners, I mean colleagues, those who clean theatres. They're my colleagues too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. You know, I'm surprised. I walked into the platform and I see what you're going to do with all of us, with all of this world. It's a hundred and fifty, a hundred and sixty thousand people in the arts, in all the arts and all the workers, and I found things that are comic-tracted. I mean, I found that after thirty-six years of hypocritical, I have to decide whether I'm an actor in general, or whether I'm an actor of a comedian, or whether I'm an actor of an actor. I was also very surprised that thirty-six years going to all the theatres in the country I have never met one - one for a sample even - of wigs. Do you know why I haven't met a wig-placer in thirty-six years? Because this specialty has been abolished, it has ceased to exist since the 1970s, as has also been the case with these funny actress divisions. Actors are good or bad, experienced or inexperienced and nothing else. A good actor is also a carouselist, he's also a roller, he's everything. These belong to the past. We also saw the terrible specialty "member of a chorus of ancient tragedy". This is all worrying. More worrying, however, is that you start the Athens Festival and the Epidaurus Theatre, our ancient theatres, without any health protocols, without the cleaners, the speakers, the actors, the dancers who work in these two, and without knowing what dawns them, whether they survive this process. Also, there were strife phenomena with the actual directors at the festival saying other than what the Ministry announced, that is, the Ministry said that there would be only the performances of Epidaurus from the state scenes and the directors said privately "adjust it abroad, we will upload it". Eventually, they won't bring it up. It is clear that there is a complete inconsistency. I conclude - and I am closing - by telling you this: one thing that has two feet to demand that the support art workers and it is very clear: they want security, not to die and have no artists or technicians to support artists, not to die from coronary and, secondly, they want an organised long-term plan, which, after seeing and recognising us that we are and are so many people, is to protect us systematically from unemployment. It's necessary. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u114	The next speaker is Mr Stamenitis Dionysius from New Democracy. Here, Mr Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, obviously, Mr Gregoryde, the positive way in which the government and the Prime Minister faced the first wave of pandemic, which took credit from the world's bell - governments, journalists, newspapers - is an important advantage for the next round and tourism, shows us how to deal with all the rest. Wait and you'll see! However, in the first wave, we have done great work and are also worth congratulating the people of nurses and everyone else, but also the government and the Prime Minister for what they have achieved. Today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, which concerns the incorporation of five European directives into Greek legislation, the ratification of the memorandum of cooperation between Greece and Cyprus on issues of administrative cooperation between the two Ministries and, finally, the introduction of regulations relating to administrative matters relating to the administration of justice. It is a draft law which we will discuss two days in plenary, and the Minister described earlier all the things that have been done in the consultation. Therefore, comments on poor legacy fall into the void or obviously want to cover the misuse of arguments or counter-proposals. First of all, I should like to stress that the incorporation of the directives that comes with this draft law has been delayed quite considerably under the responsibility of the previous government, as it is an obligation that should have been implemented by Greece in the first half of 2019. Nevertheless, the legislation incorporating the directives is not dealt with by the government and the leadership of the Ministry of Justice as a mere negligence, which must obviously be settled. On the other hand, it is a key priority, as the whole of the arrangements are dealing with a number of very important issues. In particular, Directive 800/2016 upgrades the protection of the rights of minors who are accused or suspected of criminal proceedings or are subject to a European arrest warrant procedure. Such arrangements shall ensure more and additional procedural guarantees for minors. At the same time, the establishment of the individual evaluation of minors by the Minors' and Social Aid Service is introduced for the first time and the preparation of a report on the economic background, family environment, social profile and overall description of personality. I think what we all agree that these regulations prejudge better the administration of justice and shield the protection of the rights of minors. Secondly, Directive 1371/2017 deals with fraud against the European Union's financial interests. In particular, these arrangements treat the criminal protection of the Union's property as the protection of the property of the Greek State. offences such as cross-border VAT fraud, inaccurate statements or counterfeiting of information resulting in reduced revenues of the European Union, shall be standardised as criminal offences. In fact, here we are trying on the part of the European Union to establish common criminal rules to combat and deal with the loss of the Union itself. Thirdly, the directive 541/2017 attempts to combat terrorism. And as the Minister said earlier, our country is the last one that has not incorporated it. Apparently we're late. The exchange of information, cooperation between the States of the Union, common rules, prevention and a common approach framework summarizes the philosophy of the anti-terrorism directive. In fact, what is being promoted by the provisions resulting from the directive is the creation of a common front against terrorism and a more effective approach to terrorism, which I believe are essential in a global environment that is constantly changing, evolving and conducting technical leaps, by providing tools to the exercise of terrorism. The States, therefore, through international cooperation and the exchange of information and know-how, are shielded against possible terrorist acts. Fourthly, Directive 1919/2016 incorporates the arrangements forming a common institutional framework regarding legal aid and assistance to accused persons and suspects in the implementation procedures of the European Arrest Warrant. In particular, the conditions for the appointment of a lawyer or lawyer for legal aid in civil, commercial and criminal matters are clarified and the criteria for legal aid are laid down for the beneficiaries. At the same time, as I mentioned at the beginning of my position, this draft law ratifys the memorandum of cooperation on justice between the relevant Greek and Cyprus ministries. Finally, it is important that the regulations contained in the final chapter of the bill, which regulate a number of issues relating to the judicial, public and legal matters, with a view to modernising the procedures, decongestion of the judiciary, the more rapid administration of justice, wage maturities, and the correct distribution of public prosecutors, depending on the needs of this House. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my position, I would like to make a point which has been quite emphasised in the committee's drafting sessions. The fact is that the incorporation of directives into Greek legislation should be made faster so that time is not wasted. It is not too often that we have to adapt legislation so that we can align ourselves with European law. It is a given that the incorporation of Community directives creates a common legislative framework that ensures common rules for all Member States of the European Union, thereby strengthening cooperation and providing effective policies. That is why I invite you all to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u116	Mr Georgios Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is important to begin by referring to the whole procedure followed during the debate on this bill, which actually puts us back to normality, after four meetings of the Committee on Civil Service, and two meetings are held in plenary on the principle and the articles, which confirms Parliament's institutional and operational process and now restores things to their institutional paces after the crisis, but also to the last memorandums we have had. I would also like to point out that during the debate on the bill the consensus tactics of the Minister of Justice, which, due to the gravity and effects of the bills produced in the Greek society, wants to receive the broader policy of acceptance by making it as rapporteur for changes and improvements to every creative proposal from other factions. While first of all the title of the bill refers to a simple process of harmonisation with European legislation, it is, however, an important bill, as it concerns sensitive points of social and political life and criminal law. Incorporating the procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings into the Greek legal order of the European Parliament Directive 2016. This is because experience has shown that despite the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, despite the International Covenant on the Individual and Political Rights of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, there is not always sufficient confidence in the criminal justice systems of all the Member States and so common minimum rules are laid down to protect the procedural rights of minors suspected, the confidence of the Member States in the systems of the other Member States is strengthened and the mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters is improved. The draft law ensures that minors suspected or accused in criminal proceedings will be able to understand and monitor such procedures and exercise their rights. This is why there is provision for an individual assessment of minors by the Minors' and Social Aid Service and for a report on the personality, economic, social and family environment, as well as the physical and mental situation of the minor. The incorporation of the second Directive 2017/1371 of the European Parliament is attempting to combat fraud through the Criminal Code against the European Union's financial interests. At the same time, the existing institutional framework under Law 2803/2002 is repealed. Article 17 of Directive 2017/1371 requires its incorporation into Union law, because that Directive seeks to strengthen the criminal protection of Union financial interests against fraud, embezzlement, corruption, ensuring that all Member States have harmonised, effective and proportionate provisions. By assimilating the criminal protection of the European Union's property by protecting the property of the Greek public, cross-border VAT fraud is standardised as criminal offences, inaccurate or incomplete statements or counterfeiting of information or illegal receipt and retention of grants and benefits, all resulting in a reduction in the European Union's budget revenue, reduction of resources intended to improve the level of life of the citizens of the European Union, improvement of economic development and social cohesion, as well as research. Incorporation of Directive 2017/541 seeks to resolve relevant issues relating to the fight against terrorism. Through the promoted arrangements, better criminal protection against terrorism, which is a social scourge, is guaranteed. Thus, by standardising as criminal offences of the organisation or in any way facilitated by travel for terrorism, as well as theft, blackmail and forgery related to terrorist activity, as well as other specific provisions on international cooperation and access to the gathering and transmission of information on terrorism, a common grid of European Union action against terrorism is being created, and specific provision is being made for victims of terrorism, as appropriate medical care is provided for them immediately after the terrorist attack and for as long as this is necessary. Incorporation of Directive 2016/1919 ensures the provision or assistance of a lawyer to economically weak persons who have the status of suspect or accused person or respondent in support of the category in criminal proceedings, as well as to those who have the status of person sought in the context of European arrest warrants. In other words, the conditions for the appointment of a lawyer or lawyer for legal aid in civil, commercial and criminal matters are clearly laid down and the criteria for granting legal aid to the beneficiaries are laid down. It is worth noting that the incorporation of this directive into the Greek legal system had already been carried out with Law No 3226/2004, but with the new provisions, changes are being made with a view to better functioning of its provisions. For example, I will only mention the own-initiative appointment. I will not go into cooperation with the Republic of Cyprus, to which the previous colleague has already referred. I will conclude by saying that, in principle, this is a bill that improves and harmonises sensitive criminal functions of the Greek system with those of the European Union, functions that tend to best defend the individual rights of the citizens of the European Union, the protection of the social whole from terrorism and the transnational cooperation of the States of the European Union. How? By mainstreaming the rules of justice, a fact that indirectly upgrades the authority of justice itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. Obviously, in the debate on the subject, the legal Members are more competent. But today, at the outset, I think it is a positive draft law, and that is why I am sure it should be voted on by all colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Alexandros Aylonite has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. It's bad to talk to very few colleagues. Imagine how bad it was some time ago, when the House was literally failing. Despite the opposing proposals made by the Officerate to operate in the form of summer sections, this was not accepted. It seems to me to welcome how this House works today! But at least I find a very big problem of the democratic and normal functioning of the Greek Parliament. Let me remind you how you dealt with Members at the parliamentary level. We in the region have forgotten. You asked us for the electronic signature, but you never happened to ask us to give our opinion on various bills or sanctions for acts of legislative substance. Since we were in our districts and had more time, we bombed you with questions, but we didn't get answers. And you know, they were questions that were targeted at the core of the problem, that is, at the core of the health crisis problem. I do not like that personally, as I do not like the way in which you legislate today with absentees. It was very much heard of the Conference of Presidents. We agreed, therefore, at the Conference of Presidents to legislate in this House with a few Members, but on bills relating to the coronary, in order to shield society and without getting away from the core of Parliament's functioning. I shall begin with my position because, despite what you have said, Mr Minister, I will once again support the view that it is not right to legislate, along with what I have just said. When we say that there was no proper consultation, we do not mean that there were five, fifteen, fifty-five meetings in the Greek Parliament. Consultation is addressed to the world and the time to be determined is to be able to listen to the people in whose name we legislate. In this sense, therefore, when the draft law is introduced for public consultation with sixty-four articles and ending up with ninety-seven articles, there is a problem in consultation. Does this have to do with the coronary itself, since we are following the urgent procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u120	She's got someone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u121	She's got someone. All over, no. He's in trouble. And the emergency character is so lame. It's too lazy. Furthermore, if I remember correctly - let my party's rapporteur, Dionysios Kalamatiano - correct me, there is not the relevant opinion of the Committee on Quality Assessment of the legislative process. You had established this, if I'm not mistaken, in the law on an official state. Am I wrong? That's what it's supposed to be. So something is not right in this process. The question is not to become a norm, because times are leapy, times are difficult, and I fear that there is a risk that we may be escaping. Minister, I'm a lawyer. All my years in the audience I ate them. I would like you - for the first time - to say a word - if you will excuse me for this word, they are directed at people and the Members of this House - for this reason, by means of teletraining, you will say 'apologies, dear lawyers, who I am leading as Minister and your professional sector'. I didn't hear it out loud. But I didn't hear the most important thing. The Prime Minister came out and said he would give - I, to God, will not get -800 euros. So I ask you directly: Will your government give it to you? When will he give it? And if he doesn't give it, why won't he give it to him? I'd like a straight answer yes or no. Lawyers aren't beggars. They're not begging. Equal treatment is needed by the government. And let us not forget that the government has shown that it supports various social groups, classes or professions - not to say about the media. So I would like to leave next weekend in my village and in Corfu and tell them that, you know, ladies and gentlemen, the government will give you the 800 euros. But that's not all, it's the most basic thing. When something is introduced, it takes a form of repetition and perpetuality. I am referring to the limitations of offences, for which there is a penalty provision under criminal law for up to one year. This tends to become permanent. It doesn't mean that because SYRIZA did it, I'll justify SYRIZA's government. For God's sake! Independent (I am explaining and supplementing: in consciousness) I am a congressman, I say my opinion, as my heart and conscience should say. I'm a lawyer. Here's the ridiculous thing about common sense. First of all, by means of the provision you put in today's bill, all cases which are provided for, as I said before, by a year or so, are being filed or filed. Question: Since it is up to 30-4-2020 to exercise the right to appeal, how long does it end? In three months. Before even exercising the right to appeal for such offences, the government tells the government by means of this legislation "do not testify at all, nonsense". And the other strange thing, the strange thing: To file a complaint against him about the threat or exultation, my suede to go to the record and if he sued me that I slandered him or falsely prosecuted him, his suit will be tried, since the sentence provided for the offence of false persecution or slander defamation is greater than a year old! Do we always have to justify this because the signboards of the one-sided criminal courts have been loaded with many cases? Do we have to accept this all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u122	But there won't be. Delete. How's he gonna sue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u123	Won't there be a slandering defamation? Now? What exactly is going on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u124	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Chiara, do you know what that means? Thirty-five years of criminal law. I've dealt with this. And you come and you say you're okay, to end this story, to get these cases in...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u126	You did it for two years!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u127	What about work? The work of the lawyers, which is huge, the legal material that goes away, that falls all the lawyers, you count that? You don't count it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u128	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u129	I conclude by saying that the political controversy and the crisis that exists in justice is not as you see it here that everything is beautiful and nice and that we are a bit of beautiful flowers and we cut daisies. Problems outside this House are unequivocally more and mainly affect the authority of justice, which is required by law and because of your responsibility to defend it. Tomorrow - and I shall end with this, Mr President - we will discuss the extension of criminal offences to the case of the former Minister of Justice. I ask you straight away - I will not look at this issue or I will not speak tomorrow - and answer from now on: with regard to the leaks from the Committee of Inquiry, from the Members who are participating either from my party or from wherever, have you checked it? Did the Bureau check it? Is there no secrecy in the criminal trial? Why don't you protect the authority of justice at all levels? That is the question, that is what I want you to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Aylonite, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u131	You are confusing a parliamentary procedure with something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u132	It's parliamentary, it's criminal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u133	It's a parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u134	Minister, it's not just a parliament. The Pre-Association Committee has such functions as the D.A. and you didn't do anything. You absolutely didn't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Savvas Snowides from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an important bill that is in the series of legislation that you have brought to Parliament, so that we can make progress on this important issue concerning the part of justice. Is it a big deal of justice? It is of national importance, of enormous national importance, because the incidental consequences of its malfunction have a direct impact on the economy and, above all, on society. It is also important that justice should be in the same sense as Parliament's dealings with national issues, which are defence issues, because justice - I will say self-evident - is the third pillar in order to stand up to a society. If, then, legislative power, executive power is in harmony, so that society will have to function at the same time as justice. This is an issue that, as we have seen from the evidence presented, presenting the Eurobarometer and other international organisations, is not particularly honouring us in Greece and is also reasonable. It is reasonable because there are huge delays, which we are calling for speeding up procedures. However, it is not only the speeding up of cases, it is also the independence of justice a major issue. So we have phenomena in Greece which we are dealing with integrating the directives, so that we can have a Europe that really has a single perception, such as how these cross-border fraud crimes have been punished for years and have cost the Greek public, but also the European Union many billions of euros and which we now face, i.e. self-evident. That's why it's important for minors too. Also, Minister, you were rightly placed and recommended that the peacekeepers continue these lists of people - who waited for four and five years, who were successful, be able to participate as judges at the National School of Public Administration by upgrading them. The main issue, therefore, to put the political dimension on the table, is that in Greece, unfortunately - and we do not know whose responsibility it is - we do not have a constitutional court. We are the country in which the peace judges and the first judges decide on constitutionality. So there are courts, let's say the example of their pensioners' retrospectives and decide whether something really is constitutional or not, a law, or the Minister's decisions that are under this law. These things cannot stand, and in particular we cannot afford to have the most expensive luxury, so that we can hold trials for up to ten years, especially when these arrive at the opposite decision of the two Courts of Cassation, i.e. the Ice Bay and the Council of State, go to the Supreme Court. In a decade society has changed, probably the laws will change. In this sense, it is a major issue which I raise in the mind of the House and the Minister, so that we can see how this House can decide on the creation of the constitutional court. Another issue is the question of essential efficiency and the administration of justice. I want to mention the example of my own province, as we are all usually doing. The Caterina Court does not have a site, as does many primary courts. Will you tell me: 'Is that the problem'? Yes, because the citizen could, but most importantly, the scientists and professionals of the industry, lawyers, have direct information. Does it cost too much? The government did for other miracles, for me very important efforts, for others less, could be more. It is important that we can give an immediate solution to these really easily relevant issues in our time, such as electronic posting of documents, certificates and decisions. I want, anyway, to say that it is easy to stop having the twelfths, where every lawyer goes and can see the decisions in the twelfth, while we have reached a time in 2020. There really needs - and you've already started - an effort. I do not want to blame her, but there are issues which can be promptly and directly legislated, that it is compulsory, anyway, for these decisions to be electronic and for every gossip lawyer not to be able to go and read the books and book manuscripts and say who got what cases, who won, who didn't win assumptions. These things affect our culture and I am addressing Parliament and a ministry and a minister who has shown himself to be decisive and who wants to change the whole thing at all costs. From there on, the economic growth lever - many colleagues have said so - is very important. The United Kingdom exports music, football, education and justice. There, then, is the important part in which we will be able to stand, so that we can get to that level, so that justice can be credible first for citizens and then for others. Of course, I will once again end by ending, Mr President, without abusing your time, that consensus is the main issue. The credibility shown by the government in managing the first wave of the coronary has positive consequences on many levels, economic, tourism. We all hear talk about Greece. So imagine, for these areas, Minister, which you will do, that we can get the consensus of Parliament and move on what a positive climate they will give the economy, society itself! I therefore hope and believe that, because in life everything is comparable, next time, by ending the four-year term of the government and with your Minister, Greece will cease to be in the 71st place. I hope - and they are measurable - that we take five steps forward. I'm not saying we should do much more. I'm sure the faces are of a catalyst. So we see that consensus exists, because there is a Ministry and a Minister - and I do not say that to say good words about Constantine Tsiara, but it does not need them from me - which consent, they deal with so that we can achieve the best possible result, and that is very important. This has proved once again by reminding all ladies and gentlemen that it is the fourth draft law - I hope - because we see that the Ministry has had a good attitude to accept - which will have almost Parliament's overall support. This is an example and it is a huge step in saying that in Greece we are consenting, because we believe that we need fair justice. In conclusion, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the lawyers have suffered a great deal of damage. We had two thousand collecting notes last year in the same period of two months and a hundred and fifteen this year. So there we need to see the collection, and you can see it with your co-legislative ministers. Like also, Minister, I believe that, as there is a reduction in VAT up to EUR 1 000, as much as the limit you have proposed for voting on, for the maximum amount that someone can offer on behalf of the state. These are my thoughts. I believe justice is a major issue. It is a national issue and we must all deal with it together in the same national way that we face military spending and foreign policy. It is a major issue, a great composition, a good mood on the part of the Ministry too, so that we can take steps forward. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u137	Mr Arvanitis Georgios has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a modern rule of law seems apart from the other parameters and from adapting its procedures to the requirements of every time. It is judged and seen by the adaptation of the services it provides for access to justice in the new needs of both the citizens and the officials of justice, which are not the judges, lawyers, notaries, judges. Once again, in her favourite tactics over the last period, the Government has decided to legislate against those who will bear the burden of implementing and supporting the arrangements under this bill. Minister, bring in another bill in a rough and haste, without proper consultation, where you are attempting fragmentary changes in important institutions, such as the institution of legal aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u139	He was in consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u140	What does that mean? The other half that wasn't what changed? At the same time, you had arranged to denounce the scientific branch of lawyers with the famous teletraining. Amid the coronary pandemic the front and back to the support of scientists have no precedent. There is the special unemployment account for which we have been tabling you as a Change Movement for 15 days, and we are waiting for your answers. The question arises, Minister, what was the purpose of this special unemployment account for self-employed persons? At the same time as the alleged beneficiaries, employees and freelance professionals, it is very difficult to enter into the provisions of the purpose of an account. It should also be noted that this special account is charged to pay an amount of EUR 120 per annum as a contribution to unemployment not only by free-of-the-job lawyers but also by the wage-paying insurers who pay 1% of their wages as well as 2% of their special unemployment solidarity contribution. The purpose of the account was therefore not to keep the self-employed in the event of unemployment unprotected. The funds were not supposed to have been used to grant an unemployment aid. However, in the seven years of operation of the special account, according to data from stakeholders and scientist associations, few members of them have been able to subsidise to date because of the very strict criteria. So why don't you make the necessary adjustments and changes here so that those in need really benefit? Why don't you quickly and directly extend the measure of digital signature to lawyers at a small cost? You know very well that the tradition of usb goes with turtle rate. So let go of the communication games. Our lawyers are closing an appointment to the Bar Association for the receipt of the usb and after they have paid the 27 euros, which they are asked for, they are then told that "the Hermes gate has fallen", "Come again", "we see when you will receive". These are practical issues which need to be resolved. On the contrary, you must proceed with the electronic signatures of the judges so that they can electronically issue the judgments, but the performance is now also made electronically. This must be the adaptation of a modern rule of law to the requirements and needs of the new era and the functions of justice. You need to realize that the new data require you to quickly and intelligently make appropriate efforts to adapt to the new conditions. As you must properly adapt to the new data, but also to resolve the huge problems that exist in the institution of free legal aid for our fellow citizens. The most characteristic of these problems is the great delay in the handling of the files and the liquidation and payment of the fees of lawyers who have taken legal action. Almost a year ago you have been indifferent and come today simply to increase the income ceilings for the integration of citizens into free legal aid. This important institution, unfortunately, is malfunctioning and I am afraid that the regulations you bring will certainly result in its practical paralysis. You will eventually succeed, Minister, precisely the opposite result from what you want to face. Unless the result you seek is to use the institution as informal and unpurpose borrowing of legal services to the public. Do you want to build a rule of law and a justice with coupons? If that's your goal, we can't agree. We are also opposed to the incomprehensible and irrational exception from the institution in fact all new lawyers with the completely incomprehensible and unreasonable condition that is put forward, in other words, ten performances before a lawyer is included in the list. We call 'yes' to free legal aid to those who really need it. With a valid payment, but the lawyers who take over these cases. And why not, by giving them free digital signatures, computers, the means needed to carry out their duties quickly and with quality and, of course, with priority to the new lawyers. It is an opportunity for them, a raw material to begin their professional course in a dignified and inclusive manner. Ladies and gentlemen, every science when separated from justice and the rest of virtue becomes panic and not wisdom. That's what Plato said by the mouth of Menexos. It is therefore your responsibility, Minister, at this particular juncture that you do not enter into temptations for tricks and horrors at the expense of a modern rule of law, justice and its contributors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u141	Thank you too for the consistency in time, Mr Arvanitides. Before Mr. Karagunis comes up in Stepma, who is the next speaker, and until the relevant disinfection is made, I should like to inform the House of the following: You are well aware of the procedure in plenary today. It will follow at 17.00 parliamentary control and then the timely question of the Change Movement. There are still ten speakers left. You also know that between plenary sessions there is a certain time needed to make the necessary disinfection. So we're coming from now on. We still have ten speakers. With seven minutes we cannot be consistent with the planning of the parliamentary control which follows at 17.00. The first is, of course, that the seven-minute period must be observed anyway. But even the seven-minute period for the MPs to keep will be longer than the fifth afternoon. There is a proposal to reduce the speaking time so that everyone on the list can speak. I'd suggest two minutes. It must be consistent, of course, in this new time that we are going to decide now. It's no different. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Karagunis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. I'd like your tolerance. I know that a reduction in time has now begun, but I would like your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, the areas of justice in all the countries of the world are seen as a preservative from the point of view of legislative intervention. In justice, whatever legislation you have to think about twice and three times. I say this from experience. For as far as this area is concerned, it is also the prestige of the state. So, in justice you first start with the specials and then, of course, you go to generals. First you start with the little ones and then you go to the big ones. So this bill is precisely part of this logic. It is a law on pending settlements because justice is also an area in which, for the same reasons as I mentioned above, there is no stand-up and loopholes. In addition, this bill has the philosophy that our prolongation over time believes in matters of justice. That is to say, the third degree of independence of justice, the service of everyday life and of trade life in civil relations and civil relations with the State, as reflected in any interventions by political and administrative justice. The third is, of course, the rule of law. A sense of effective administration of the law, as reflected in any interventions in the field of criminal justice. If you look more carefully at the provisions of the bill you will see that these fixed purposes also serve our established philosophy. The bill contains arrangements on the issues of minors, on the protection of Union financial interests and, of course, on the issues of terrorism. If one takes into account all its provisions, the above elements which I have mentioned obviously serve. Just one such bill because of its character, as I described it to you, should normally not have substantial disagreements. Improve ments of a legal nature yes, but I do not see why there should be any. It should also be explained in a sense by SYRIZA and the opposition where these disagreements exist. Adaptation to Community directives? Protecting the procedural rights of minors? To ensure good management of European funds? On terrorism? Although in the latter and in everything related to it, because of your history, you have some instinctive irrational reactions. I have to admit, to be perfectly fair, that it has been less than it has been in recent years. So I think what we need to do is to vote in favour of all the concepts of this bill, because it regulates matters self-evidently and to wish the issues of justice always rotate around it. Sadly, however, even in these self-evident circumstances, we unfortunately have a Disabled Opposition which will not stand up to them either. Of course, it is a problem of the Officerate, because I hope you will understand how cosmic and tragic you have done, precisely because you have total impoverishment, to create nothing on the basis of what Mr Scorchos said. There's been a lot of mention on your part. I would normally not deal with the matter, but you as SYRIZA have raised too much tons, you have asked for discharges, etc. Mr. Scortsos, of course, explained what he meant in his posting. In any case, the main issue about which noise has occurred was for the selfish appearance of objectivity in difficult criminal trials. So while you understand very well what he said, precisely because you have no place in anything, you distorted it. It is a tragic thing - and I must say this - because you have taken advantage of a human history and the pain of those involved, to unfortunately score on the micropolitical stock exchange, but also a comic, because you are also presenting your criticism as motivated by your supposed interest in the independence of justice. Here, of course, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, you obviously do not understand what you are saying. I must remind you - and the Minister of Justice mentioned it - many officials, but also the government - that you are talking about independence of justice, which you did not like. for breached economic rights of citizens, and then you are attacking judges, you speak of independence of justice, which unfortunately became comics in the Greek world when for the first time in the history of the Greek state all judicial associations came out - which was unprecedented, we had never dealt with it - and they denounced the former Minister of Justice for raw interventions in their work. More importantly, you are talking about independence of justice, which, at the moment when this House is talking about investigating the possibility of referral back to the special court of your former Minister of Justice and, indeed, with accusations that standardise disrespect for the independence of justice. And you, who bring and you will bring this stigma for your prehistoric history to the affairs of justice, have unfortunately had the political courage to make the issue of the Topalude case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will propose something: to leave the high tone on justice. There is no reason, especially because at the house of the hanged, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, they are not talking about rope. Start reaching out to the self-evident, like the bill brought by the minister and we're talking about. You will tell me - and I understand you - that you also need a account, because you see the polling and the successful treatment of pandemic and, obviously, you do not have much to say. I understand and repeat that in trying to articulate any reason at this difficult juncture we are going through, leave out the cheap micro-particular rhetoric, as all the favoured states of the West do. I would agree with my colleague, Mr Snowides, that we should leave foreign policy, defence, justice, and special conditions for at least a period of time, at least, and health and let us begin today by voting for this bill. And because Mr Snowides said earlier, I would like to say that the Caterina Court has no site, I will say, Mr President, that since 2005 it had to have, not only a site, but had been digitised and the second phase of the IACC - PSU, i.e. criminal and political trial, was ready, a project that has been cancerd since 2015. Congratulations, Minister, for taking this project very quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Karaguni, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u145	It is a project launched by the New Democracy since 2012 - it is worth saying, because I had personally dealt with it - and we are here where we are. Again, congratulations, because you finally started this project. Mr President, I would like, if we have any time, to make a few comments on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u146	Mr Karagunis, in Thursday's debate you will be able to make your point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u148	Mr Sarakiotis John has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill also comes to put this little bit of it in the further burden of the middle-class for which the New Democracy was so election-making. Indicatively, after you increased the charges on PPC's tariffs, burdening the primary sector, every Greek family, every small and medium-sized enterprise, after you increased the insurance contributions, after you abolished the tenth pension, which was paid last year, you now come to create obstacles, even the right of the citizen to resort to justice. How else could the fact of limiting the number of parties to the group actions be interpreted? In cases where a large number of persons affected have a joint application for annulment, an infringement of the same administrative act. I am referring in particular to Article 56 of this draft law, according to which the number of judges in each document submitted as from 1 June of this year may not exceed 50. And since you are preventing citizens from resorting to justice, you are currently excluding new lawyers from the institution of providing legal aid in criminal matters, by legislating at least ten performances. I wonder whether this measure to exclude new lawyers from the institution of legal aid also relates to Mr Brutsi's multi-advertised 'brain gain' campaign. If that is the way your Government rewards the new lawyers who have remained in the country, fighting all these years of the crisis. Then, even the basic knowledge of the use of a computer, you are also unrepentant of this provision, and despite what is provided for in the Code of Lawyers, you are now coming to question their legal competence. You are blocking lawyers, embracing justice as an institution, an institutional last resort for the citizen, who has no political backs and who is defenceless. This also appeared from the elitist irony, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Scartsos's statement, shortly before the court's decision in the case of the rape and murder of Helen Topaloudi and after the speech of Mrs. Prosecutor, who is causing numerous questions, but also a variety of questions to our fellow citizens. Is it possible for such a high-ranking member of the government not to realize that such public criticism, against the speech of the State Attorney, could possibly affect not only the President's but also the jury's judgment? Why did Mr Scortsos feel the need to give public advice to justice officials just hours before the publication of a relevant decision? On the other hand, because Mr Skersos and Maximos did not feel at any time the need to comment publicly on anything, about the release of Mr Florus, the 'ENERGA', who even damaged the Greek State with hundreds of millions of euros, and not just that. Really, why did the right hand of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, not make a personal view of his personal account, on Facebook, on the case of the Golden Dawn criminal organisation? His pretext is more reminiscent of that prosecutor's phrase in the trial. That apologies that he heard wasn't honest. No remorse, no sincere apologies. And if our government party has used all these years to interventions in the time of justice, this is a very serious case, as it involves a serious crime with a tragic result, the murder of a young girl. The very least Mr Scorchos has to do if he has a trace of ethicism would be to resign. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How, though, will there be emotiveness in the party, which owes anyone who speaks Greek? After all, the recently published accountancy data of the New Democracy is the most convincing demonstration of technocratic adequacy, but also of your unique ability to expand deficits and increase debts. And you're the ones who come to talk about the middle class and the housewives. The householders who succeeded after the party's presidency was taken over by Mr. Mitsotakis, launch the loans to the banks from 214 million, in 2016, to 3008 million today and create deficits of more than 30 million euros in the balanced accounts that you would achieve. And it was a few years ago, in 2016, when today's prime minister announced that he would put order on your party's finances, so that, as he said, you do not charge the Greek taxpayer any additional charges. And I wonder if he is concerned today with the extra burden of the Greek taxpayer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u150	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u151	Immediately, Mr President. What did the current Prime Minister do? Create another zombie, as your Undersecretary, Mr. Zavvos, would say. In closing, we hope that your government will show the same care for our fellow citizens' loans and for the protection of their first residence, which the banks have been showing for all these years and for the New Democracy party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u152	The next speaker is Mr Maravegias Konstantinos from New Democracy. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, starting with I would like to convey the satisfaction of the citizens of Magnesia, and not just, for the new phase that has just begun, the return of society to normality. It is a great conquest that this return is sooner than expected and is a result of excellent, hard work by the relevant ministries and of the consistent effort by all Greeks. It is a management so successful that it has been recognised internationally, not only in terms of protecting the social system as a whole, but also in terms of the upgraded functioning of the public in the midst of the coronary crisis. The consequence of this successful management is the resumption of the legislative process gradually, but stable in the legislative process before the krone and thus bills, such as today, are introduced into the House with all the necessary comfort for processing and discussion, both in the committee responsible and in the plenary. Minister, first of all you deserve congratulations on extending the electronic document service to political trials. Article 67 is a real innovation and I am very pleased, as is everyone in the New Democracy about the generalisation of the use of electronic means in justice, which, moreover, we supported at the very first time in the introduction of the measure when it started with the administrative courts. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to focus on two other key ideas that characterise this bill and are related to the treatment of corruption. The first is to simplify the control where you were, so that it becomes more operational. The second basic idea concerns the increased protection of the European Union's financial interests, which are also identical to the public interest. In other words, the Greek state now guarantees the most stringent management of European money in our country, whether it concerns co-financed projects, subsidies or even VAT collection. Let us not forget that this Union money is also public money and must only be protected with the strictest possible legal weaponry, especially since our country has again been at the centre of controls and investigations by European institutions for mismanagement, such as in the case of European Union funding for immigration for the period 2015-2019. It is an investigation that seems to be inconsistent with both direct assignments to SYRIZA - ANEL for services such as the feeding of migrants and topics where you were going. The OLAF Audit Service, the corresponding ILO, shall continue, in accordance with a recent European Commission document, the survey launched for Greece in 2017. So, as we all understand, this investigation now has very specific items and economic transactions and natural persons. Because of its multi-annual nature, we all understand why, as OLAF says, it is related to matters relating to confidentiality of personal data and protection of procedural rights of those involved. So what was the Greek Government's responsible reaction to this position expressed about a month ago? The immediate tightening of the legislative framework for dealing with fraud against the European Union. It is a serious and responsible attitude, which we must support, by voting in favour of this bill. But what was your reaction, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? No, of course, apologise for the political events of your government nor to make self-criticism as the main partner of the previous government. The reaction of your Eurogroup to the ongoing OLAF investigation was to put a question to the European Parliament asking that the Government of New Democracy be checked on the management of Community funds available from now on for immigration. But there is a fundamental difference, ladies and gentlemen. We're not the same. We are not collecting rents from NGOs for our own apartments, which are paid with European funds, to house immigrants, or to provide direct donations to our friends with whom we can also open bars. However, hypocrisy has a limit and because in the past few days it has been unfair - in my opinion - criticism of interventions in justice in an extreme and blunt way, if you really want to discuss the very serious complaints about targeted and successive interventions by the Minister in justice, we are calling on you to discuss the new offences that have arisen from the investigation by the relevant committee of the House on Mr Papagelopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u154	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u155	And since these complaints do not concern either the style or comments of the former Minister, without fantasy and without distorting a case that has been haunted involves a history of direct intervention of the SYRIZA - ANEL system in justice, you will be forced this Wednesday to vote for Mr Papagelopoulos either positively or negatively. You will have to assume your responsibilities without other sides and balls on the platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u156	The next speaker is Mr Constantine Kyranakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I will speak from the seat to help.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u158	Good, Mr. Cyranakis, thank you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u159	First of all, Mr President, I am very surprised that the opposition had been shouting about the procedures here in Parliament, which, because of the Coronary measures, were not allowed to speak too many speakers, many representatives of the parties, and today, which, for the first time, we have the opportunity to register in plenary for up to sixty, we have only twenty-seven people involved. It really makes me the impression that opposition is choosing to show such behaviour in a bill concerning and the incorporation of the European Anti-terrorism Directive, which is very important. I would now like to focus a little on Article 67, Minister, and I would really like to thank you for having listened to the suggestions made by lawyers who have been asking for various electronic measures relating to economic performance, all that is described in Article 67, which, if I am not mistaken, amends Article 22 of the Code of Civil Procedure. This must continue because it is the fastest, clearest and simple way to speed up the administration of justice. We mustn't stop here. Some examples have already been mentioned by colleagues, and co-population and opposition for courts and protagonists throughout the territory, which should follow examples of good practice that we are applying here in Athens. A number of things have been heard in this House about the independence of justice and it really makes me impression that we are being prosecuted by those who in December 2017 - and we forget very quickly in this Chamber - have pushed the then President of the Council of State, Mr Sakellariou, to speak of raw intervention in the work of justice from the then government of SYRIZA. We forget about it very quickly and we should pay attention to those who are going to be voting tomorrow in this Chamber because their own Minister, Minister of Government SYRIZA, is now charged with seven offences in a case that concerns the creation of an outlawed circuit in their own government. He is a minister accused of blackmail, accused of bribery by a political official, accused of being bribed by an official, of a moral automobile in abuse of power, of violating duty, of participating in a criminal organisation - the case of a gang of Article 187- because it obviously did not work alone. All of this will therefore be called upon, colleagues of SYRIZA, to take a position. You cannot "swing the finger" and talk about the independence of justice when your own Minister is accused of all this. And all this is not denounced by the New Democracy, not by the MPs. They denounce at least four judicial officers who described in the pre-examination committee a specific mafia method on the basis of which attempted interventions were taken in their work. So don't talk to us about independence of justice, especially you, SYRIZA colleagues. Minister, we did not have the opportunity to discuss this bill - but I am sure we will do it in one of the following - the burning issue of the full award of sentences. There are many cases that these days have caused the interest of society and many reactions from Greek society. When we say life, we have to mean life, Minister. I think this will be in line with the sense of law. We have a duty as legislators to pass laws that restrict and tighten up the criteria for existing dismissals. We cannot see a criminal who has been imprisoned in thirty-six children and has been sentenced to four hundred and a half years of imprisonment to remain in prison for eight and a half years. It is not reasonable and fair terrorists - murderers of 17 November to have been sentenced to life and to be released in less than fifteen years. It cannot be done the same as the two first-time convicted assassins of the unfortunate girl, whose story has shocked the Greek society this week, and those people who have been sentenced to life not to serve their sentence. It cannot be done the same in the case of the illegal immigrants who have been punished for life for attacking with such barbarity, Minister, on the minor, then Myrto, who is now seated in a wheelchair. So life must mean life, and I think if you take such an initiative, Minister, in one of the next bills, we will all be with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u160	The next speaker is Mr Biagis Dimitrios from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very hot period of time - in relation to mercury, which has an upward trend as well as political developments, and not only, which come very quickly. We are faced with an unprecedented political situation. From the health quarantine today we are living the quarantine of the economy. And because I come from an island, Corfu, whose main income is tourism, I want to mention that ten out of ten Corfiot citizens are trembling every day - and you see the despair in their eyes - about what will happen in relation to the evolution of the tourism product. This is because, Minister, Mr President, the measures on tourism, at least until now, are not sufficient to cover the huge economic gap that has already begun to be created. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality and it is a reality for every Greek and every Greek woman. While all this is happening, we in Parliament are debating a draft law on justice, Minister. In fact, with everything that has been before, and with pandemic, one would expect to see and read a bill that will really help and support the country's legal order and not this dilemma of provisions relating to directives and regulations. It does not really, objectively, today's problems, and it also contradicts the terms of good legislature. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] When we talk about good legislation, Minister, we should not forget that you, your Ministry, should be a guardian of this correct legal system, a legislature which should not have the elements of the "sucker", but should be an extension of a dialogue with the institutions of justice, with the legal world, with society. Many issues together are seen in this bill, a "sweep" bill, a bill without beginning, middle and end. Minister, as a lawyer, you will allow me to refer to the problems of my sector and the problems that are currently experienced by lawyers in our home country. On 13 March 2020, by a joint ministerial decision of your own and the Minister of Health, the functioning of all the courts and prosecutors of the country was suspended. It has therefore ceased all professional activities, since all the courts have closed down, criminal, political, administrative, mortgage, property and other services which are inextricably linked to the exercise of the profession. At the same time, with all the other measures, this possibility has still been excluded, for lawyers to do some extrajudicial effort. As a result, it was the overwhelming majority of lawyers that could no longer meet their needs. Minister, when we talk about lawyers, about the legal world, we should not have in mind any offices from the majestics of Athens, Thessaloniki or some other major cities. When we talk about the legal world and the legal world, we should imagine a lot of colleagues who really give their fight to keep justice to the level of circumstances, but also to be able to really help and bring money to their families. So, in that sense, you at first promised that you would give the 800 euros, like all the other scientists, to make this known - I will not talk about this in order not to waste time, to speak to colleagues - then you went to their senses to subjugate them with the potential you wanted and well, technically to help them with the money you would give, with the 600 euros, so that you can finally give them the 600 euros through the unsuccessful effort to provide them with technical training and you promised to give them some extra money and that you will keep them in mind. It must be made clear, Minister, that lawyers don't come here to pay. They demand and demand, because their subject matter, their office, does not give them the opportunity to work, it does not enable them to meet their obligations. In that sense, it was also the HR that you made and you gave a minimum number of colleagues, who work through the banks alone, so that they can make some money with the pre-marks and mortgages they have dealt with. We have reached point 18 of the month, today that you have not cleared the matter, that you should come behind the facts. Today you really came to announce the suspension of the auctions for the next few months, when you really saw the anxiety that the 15-day deadlines needed before the insurance measures for auctions were submitted. We got here on the 18th...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u162	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, you have reached the point today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u164	Ten times I've said what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u165	Minister, you'll answer me later. Whatever you disagree, you'll answer me later. So you must answer these colleagues. Why did you allow insurance measures to be lodged, but not those which do not have the possibility of a temporary order? What temporary order would be tabled on the issue of auctions? When did you suspend auctions? When did you announce the suspension of the auctions, Minister? These are the questions raised today by the legal world.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u166	Mr. Comrade, close up. You've become aware. You've said five times that you're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u167	There's a lack of planning! Allow me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u168	No, I do not allow you, because there is a procedure that must be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u169	In conclusion, I would like to tell you that both the previous speakers from the Change Movement, Minister, and our rapporteur, have referred to the articles one by one and what our disagreements are. More generally, however, you find us opposed because the political philosophy on which you rely is a philosophy based on communication logic rather than a realistic approach to politics. It is a logic that has nothing to do with the serious legal issue, with the area of justice. I'm one of them, Minister, who when everyone was separated...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Comrade, look at the clock!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u171	Allow me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u172	No, I won't allow you now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u173	You've all shown tolerance! Give me a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u174	Finish! Not a minute! You speak seven and a half minutes and you need to finish. You knew you'd talk five minutes. The Minister will answer you. If you want anything, say it privately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u175	We were waiting, Minister, for you to show the dialogue on a first element of your policy. Dialogue is currently falling short of your ministry. There is a lack of dialogue with the bodies, a lack of dialogue with the Bar Association, and a lack of dialogue that is an essential part to legislate properly, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u176	Are you watching?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u177	You're done, Mr. Comrade. Mr Chryssomalis from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes. You know that the process should have ended since 16: 00 because there is a continuity with timely questions and a timely question from your party, Mr President. Everything has to go into a classroom. If you consume eight minutes instead of five, how will this be done? Mr. Chryssol, you have the floor and I will ask you to be within five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u178	I'll try it. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating another government intervention that shields justice. And how does he achieve it? It achieves this because the bill under discussion incorporates the suggestions of all relevant and involved bodies, thus resolving timeless organic issues. But - and I would like to stand here - I hear the MPs from the Officerial Vice-President constantly repeat that the authority of justice has been affected and many such chips have been affected. Let's go through this a little bit more. What is the picture of the justice received by the current government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Is this one of the joints of power that you tried to understand and in part did you achieve it? It is. How, in part, did you understand it? Extremely contagious - your most contagious moment, indeed - is your systematic intervention through Rasputin and his system, not only in the NOVARTIS process, but as revealed in a large number of cases. But let me stay in 'NOVARTIS' as a train example. Faithful in your doctrine “or we finish them or end us”, seek to exterminate your political opponents by working part of the judiciary by exploiting its nightmares. Marxists are, of course, at the core of your ideology, the conquest of the joints of power, so you are consistent with your ideology - I recognize that - but you should also be honest with the Greek people and say that in the election. However, your pods have received news and you have failed to give them the rope they would hang with. But do you understand what you did, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Do you realize what you've done? I'll just tell you. You have damaged the disguise of the most powerful citizen, that is, you have injured the law in your attempt to end your political opponents. Did you finish them? Apparently not. The opposite is true. Why didn't you make it? Because there are still some with conscience. Because there are still judges in Berlin. Because there is, above all, the sovereign Greek people who took your ass. "One of the thief, two of the thief, three, and his bad hour," which says the popular rupture. But do you know what people say? Do you know what it sounds like outside? "If they set her up with nothing to Antonis Samaras and Panagiotis Pikramenos, the two former Prime Ministers, then where am I going to go to find my right," says the ordinary world. "What justice are we talking about?" That's what it sounds like. We have received this very justice, ladies and gentlemen, a multi-trained justice, deeply injured. This focuses on today's government's effort to rectify the injured authority of justice. In the same direction is the bill that we are discussing today, which is trying and succeeding in dealing with the most fundamental problem facing justice in our country, that of its delay in awarding it. It moves on to this Ministry of Justice taking close account of the proposals made by the judicial officers and their associations, thereby honoring his mission. We must congratulate the Ministry's political leadership on this. "The delay in the administration of justice is tantamount to denial of justice," he says. Unfortunately, we are living it in our country, where thousands of cases are pending and in order to perfection it takes seven and eight years, so that our country can claim sad foundations in Europe. The new organic positions of judges or their rationalisation, which we are now legislating, are an important step towards addressing the delays, a step that is taking place in full consultation with the judicial and public prosecutors. Equally an important step is the improvement of the scientific level of the new peacekeepers by establishing their education at the Court of Justice. A key body of the bill is the incorporation of four directives on the protection of the rights of children who are accused or suspected in criminal proceedings, the fight against fraud against the European Union's financial interests, the fight against terrorism and legal aid for suspects and accused persons of the European Arrest Warrant, where the conditions and criteria for legal aid are clearly laid down. Finally, the ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministries of Justice of Greece and Cyprus, signed in June 2018, which had not come. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your need to speak in opposition even to a legislative initiative that solves and cures problems of justice. The Minister has made this clear to you during the debate in the committee. The directives were drafted by the legislative committees that you set up. The majority of the other provisions relating to the functioning of justice were proposed and discussed by its own officials. The Government shows that it respects its role, shows that it respects the independence of justice and the opinion of its officials. It demonstrates that it can give those instruments and instruments to judicial officers to carry out their duties and strengthen citizens' confidence in the institution. Most importantly, however, it proves that the executive has returned from the misappropriation of the last four years, when the then Prime Minister was trying to pre-empt judges and then the ministers were asking for information on the course of interrogation by telephone or with an individual presence even in the Areo Pagos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Chrysop, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u180	I shall conclude, Mr President. I understand your need, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to claim that we are all the same, but we are not the Greek people now know. For us, the absolute commitment to the separation of powers, respect for the personal and operational independence of the judge is a one-way path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u181	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u182	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the justice institution must take important steps towards quality, speed and modernisation. Above all, it must enjoy the citizens' absolute confidence and contribute substantially to the instability of their sense of security. This draft law incorporates Community directives into the Greek legal order and regulates a number of critical issues relating to the protection of the rights of minors who are accused or suspected in criminal proceedings, ensuring additional and increased procedural guarantees for them. There are issues relating to the fight against fraud against the financial interests of the European Union through the Criminal Law. Particularly important, however, are the arrangements for combating terrorism. New criminal offences such as organisation or in any way facilitating travel with a view to terrorism are standardised by incorporating the relevant directive. Specific provisions on international cooperation and access, gathering and transmitting information on terrorism are also provided, while specific provision is made for victims of terrorism, as provision is made for appropriate medical treatment to be provided immediately after the terrorist attack and for as long as necessary, as well as psychological support and assistance in conducting actions concerning the compensation of victims of terrorist offences. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has lamented several victims of terrorism and our democracy has been hit by blind violence and intimidation, which, in fact, bear an ideological cave. The technological development and global interconnection and cooperation of terrorist organisations require international cooperation and the modernisation of our institutional framework. That should also be our attention and our essential assistance and support to be given by the organised state to the victims of terrorism and their relatives. And that is not a matter of compulsory compensation. It's primarily a matter of moral obligation. At the same time, Greece, due to its key geographical location, as a gateway to Europe, is a key pillar of European security at a time when new asymmetric threats and challenges from terrorist missiles appear in the countries of North Africa and the Middle East. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill also includes a number of other regulations, which contribute substantially to the central objectives of upgrading and modernising justice in our country. The regulation of performance is a very important regulation and I think it should be a serious one. As a lawyer, let me point out that these arrangements are not of minor importance, but they concern the daily lives of lawyers and are aimed at improving and simplifying them, reducing the cost of recourse to justice, which inevitably affects their remuneration. In addition to costs, a dissuasive reason for recourse to justice for citizens is the delay in its award. Settlement of cases is part of the solution, but not the solution. The crucial thing, however, is not only the speed in the administration of justice, but also quality. And it is true that Greek judges have so far lifted a great deal of weight in very difficult circumstances. The establishment of the pacifist courts already since the establishment of the Greek state was intended to make political justice accessible everywhere and for all, to ensure that every citizen's access to justice is immediate and easy, directly restoring the well-being of the small local communities. This need has gradually led to an increase in the number of pacifist courts, so that the data has now changed. Social and economic life inevitably has changed radically and the nature of the cases being tried before the peace courts and therefore the work of the pacifists. Their role is no longer to compromise a dispute or resolve a legal matter. In recent years a number of responsibilities have been entrusted exclusively to them, such as the trial of overdue households cases or the extradition of European payment orders and inheritors. It also increased the quantitative criterion of material competence and thus increased significantly the volume of cases in the peace hearings. The difficulty of the cases now being handled by the peace judges is now similar to that of the other political and criminal judges. It is therefore now necessary to change the way in which the tender is to be awarded and to provide them with specialised training and training in the same way as other political and criminal judges, which will help them to respond better to their difficult work. Ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is part of the area of justice and will lead to more well-trained peacekeepers, and will contribute to the qualitative upgrading of justice in a large number of cases covered by the peace courts. Because upgrading the quality of justice, modernising, speeding up its award are the great demands to strengthen citizens' confidence in it, to strengthen an independent institution which is a guarantor and a key pillar of our democratic culture, but also a key pillar of stability and development. Because a state must be fair, effective and reliable. So this draft law is an important step that we all have to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u183	May I invite the New Democracy MP, Mr Anastasio Bartzokas. Here, Mr Bartzokas, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all, before I comment on the bill, I should like to make a small statement on the experience of the pandemic we have experienced and continue to experience and the footprint that has so far left us. I too, on the occasion of the Step of the House, wish to address the Greek society and thank all our Greek fellow citizens for their attitude of responsibility and maturity during the restrictions. This attitude allows us to be proud of the way we managed the health crisis. Although there have also been victims in our country, our small comparative number has placed us at the centre of international interest this time with a positive sign. Of course, I would also like to thank the health staff of our country and also all of them - such as our policemen - who, while staying in our homes, worked and supported our daily lives. I would also like to make a separate reference to public administration. We have seen very briefly the Greek public administration, which is often called the great patient of the Greek state, making excessive efforts to be worthy of the circumstances. And, indeed, she did, proving her ability. All these reforms and the digital services we have seen have been implemented by its officials. Thank you, then, warmly. By passing now on to the bill, I would first like to make an introductory comment. The fact is that Greece cannot be proud of its performance in incorporating European legislation into national legal order. In political manuals this situation, particularly in the field of the transposition of directives into national law, is described as a state of inertia. And, of course, a factor in this situation is the absence of strong political will and less administrative insufficiency. I am making this comment because during the elaboration stage in the committee it has been asked how it is possible in the middle of a pandemic to bring the Ministry of Justice to the vote a bill which, in its main body, in essence, incorporates five European directives, as if we were insinuating, in other words, that these are not our basic issues. However, the introduction of this draft law suggests that the political leadership of the New Democracy faces the incorporation of Community directives, thus complying with the Union's, as a major political priority, and not simply as a loose end. This is of political importance, especially since this draft law introduces to national law a common framework of rules that reinforce the guarantees for the protection of the rights of children subject to a European arrest warrant procedure, the fight against financial fraud against the European Union and the fight against terrorism, while at the same time ratifying the memorandum of cooperation between the Greek and Cyprus Ministries of Justice. Furthermore, it is legitimate to stand up to the welfare of the bill, which confirms that the government respects and applies judicial decisions. Provision 61 of the bill recognises the obligation of the State to require the current judicial officers and the main staff of the Law Council of the State to pay the wages and promotions pursuant to the ruling of the special court which considered their freezing unconstitutional. We all remember the sudden way in which the vote on the freezing of special wages had been introduced without any consultation. I would also like to focus on a very important, in my view, regulation, which is provided for in the draft legislation under discussion. It is about establishing a peacekeeping direction at the Judiciary School, as provided for in Article 71. For those who have legal training and experience it is known that in particular in recent years of the memoranda and the economic crisis, the work of the pacifist courts has suffered enormous qualitative and quantitative change. The volume of subordinated disputes, transferred to the pacifist courts, has been widened to such an extent that it makes it necessary to change the way in which their officials are appointed and to provide them with specialised knowledge and training in order to process their judicial material. I therefore believe that the implementation of this provision will strengthen overall the functioning of justice both at organisational level and at the level of more rapid award. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my position, I invite you to vote in favour of this bill. We must prove to the Greek society, which has been tried once again, that in matters of justice directly related to the democratic functioning of the rule of law, our philosophy is inter-group and not micro-political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. We shall conclude the debate at first instance with the Minister of Justice, Mr Chiara. Minister, you have the floor for eight minutes and if you need more to answer colleagues, you will have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in an in-depth discussion on the draft proposed by the Ministry of Justice I personally had the opportunity to make some findings and, of course, to co-operate with some of the controversial issues, which, to a very large extent, have dealt with most of my colleagues, almost all the wings of the Greek Parliament. It is important, however, that I repeat some basic positions, which I had the opportunity and the opportunity to tell her in my first speech, but they were probably not understood by a number of colleagues, whether they were not present, or they did not have the opportunity to hear what we said. I think that the resumption of the position on a non-confidential basis is to a large extent exposing the colleagues of the Civilian Opposition officer. A small return to the recent past can be shown through the minimal comparison of what good legacy means. And because we must at some point be serious about ourselves and stop this repetitive contradiction from invoking a particular issue on the one hand and, on the other, say why we are not doing so, we must at some point set certain terms and rules. My intention was that these conditions and these rules should start from the operation of the legislation in principle concerning the Ministry of Justice, and that is why I am always emphatically returning, repeating the basic same thought that I am here, we are here to co-bodies the bills of the Ministry of Justice. I am not talking about issues that are ideologically inconsistent. That's another matter. However, there are issues relating to common sense. They do not relate to any of the ideological political positions of each party of the Greek Parliament, but to common sense. At least let us agree on that. It will be a very big step and a huge conquest for both the parliamentary process and our political system. Many colleagues understand that they were in the mood to be in the Greek Parliament and to speak and, of course, there is freedom of opinion, but also to hear some thoughts about the bill. Colleagues have gone up - we are not talking about parliamentary representatives, the parliamentary representatives are obliged to speak on the subject of topicality, and that is quite understandable - who have been here and talked about anything other than the bill. And the worst thing is that there were colleagues who came and talked about the bill, but still without paying particular attention to the bill. On the first day of the debate in the committee - I admitted it - I spoke a little extreme and said that this might have been my own expression of a storm that I accepted on an issue that was not there. But, let's see now what's going on to put them in a row. He's missing the dear Mr. Aylonite, who came and told me, swinging the finger, that we haven't predicted procedures and that the defendant will be a suede the next day. I'll tell him again. Did Mr. Alonite read it? He's not here. Did he read it? It is not my intention to be evil or to be smart to anyone, but when someone comes to the Step of the Greek Parliament and expresses a position, it is obliged, as far as possible, to have supported it with real data. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we should always discuss is the reality and not the ones that some, perhaps with reasonable leaps or in association, can create as their position or reality. So Mr. Aylonite claimed that this was the case. I therefore reply to him: Article 63(6) and (7) regulates the cases of criminal cases of false prosecution, slandering and false witness, when the main cases have been filed because of the limitation. It is for this reason - I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - that you will pass it on to him - in order to avoid the person involved and to continue these cases when the basic case has been filed, the postponement, suspension of any further action for them is foreseen. I don't know how else I can say it. Earlier I heard from a approved person, as he himself told us, legal, knowledge of the Criminal Law and the criminal procedure, that we did exactly the opposite of what the bill says. And that is of great importance - and I repeat - because if we are trying to create another image and create another landscape beyond the elements of reality, obviously we are not helping either parliamentary procedure or identifying more points of great value and of course concern to issues and bills of the Ministry of Justice. Another subject which has again made me very impressed is the following. Mr Sarakiotis, a new colleague, came here earlier, told us about the courtesy, told us about legal aid. It was like he hadn't followed all the previous conversation. The question of the homogeneity which has been raised since the first days, I told you that it is not about the labour economic differences that are being dealt with in the administrative courts, and there the justice provides for up to fifty parties together. The question of the homogeneity we come to regulate today concerns the Council of State. It is a request from the President and the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. When there is a result, a decision in the Council of State automatically concerns everyone else. There's no need to gather fifteen thousand people in a document. This is what they ask of the Council of State. So there is no such matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say a lot in relation to all that I have heard earlier, but I will try to give one - two more small answers, particularly to the parliamentary representative of the Officer's Representation, Mr Lappa, and to say that he is right in his observation of the penalty for social work. Indeed, we have been late to bring her back. The reason for this is that since the new Criminal Code described a wide range of penalties relating to social work now, a serious debate had to be held with the CEDEFOP, the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities. Why was that supposed to be? In order to determine the exact number but also the possibility of monitoring social work. And that was a huge issue. The elections prior to local government, the change of the institution, the failure to set up the competent body, which had to come to discuss with the Ministry of Justice until a few days before the outbreak of the coronary pandemic, were the real reason why, despite repeated, repeated my own letters - which, if you wish, I can table in the Minutes on Thursday, which we will have the second debate on the articles - did not restore this regulation, but through terms and rules to be provided for in a modern democratic state of the 21st century. That's just the reason and nobody else at all. Now some issues about whether or not the issue of legal aid existed or did not exist in the public consultation, I think I do not have to answer, because obviously you all know that there was. Public consultation on this bill ended before Easter. The comments were very little and I am sorry about that. If you want me to judge more, there had to be more comments, which means that very few have dealt with this bill. So let's go see what had this bill and why I propose to plenary and I suggest to you all that you vote on it. This bill did begin as an unfinished one. It was an pending incorporation of Community directives, which had been handed over by our previous government, and the signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation, along with the need to amend two specific laws. One concerned the participation of our country in EUROJUST. These loose ends, however, ended up being a priority for the Ministry of Justice, because the incorporation of all these laws was, on the one hand, necessary at that time for reasons described by the European legal order or, on the other hand, the obligation of our country as a Member State of the European Union, and on the other, because we needed a more modern legal framework that is created by the incorporation of these directives. From there on, you can see that there are arrangements that concern exclusively with the Ministry of Justice and that are arrangements that will solve problems. So what's this bill doing? Four directives are incorporated into the Greek legal system. A memorandum is ratified between Greece and the Republic of Cyprus. The Greek legislation is adapted to matters relating to EUROJUST. The framework for legal aid for the first time in Greece is defined in a clear and concrete way. And if you want me to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, it is a product of enormous co-operation with both the House of Lawyers and with the legal world and with the university community and with the judges and the judicial officers and anyone else you can imagine. We have never legislated where we are today, without the result of this legislation being a product of exhaustive dialogue. I say this, so you know what has been distributed so far. Because I know and understand that every fellow Member of Parliament, since he is in a opposition party, will be in Step and will have to say some things. But I repeat, it is very important to know what the reality is. I'm on it. In this bill we give sixty-five new organic positions in the area of judges. This bill gives rise to the wages of judges. Should we not have done this either? Because we didn't put them, because we weren't ready on the side of the State General Accounting Office, so we wouldn't put them in the bill, because it wasn't in public consultation earlier? Is that what you're telling me? In this bill we recommend for the first time a path of peacekeepers at the National Court School. It is a big step, which, yes, was planned by the previous government. I do not belong to this category of people that I think is right that we should not continue and I strongly support it as a position in general policy. This bill regulates service by electronic means at very low cost. That wasn't in the public consultation either. You didn't want us to put it on? Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine you can understand that we are talking many times without what we must ultimately support to find a basic response to common sense. And I repeat once again, I appeal to all of you and please: let us make a test effort, in the field of parliamentary debate and legislating on bills relating to the Ministry of Justice, to leave this micro-group approach on several occasions that may enable each Member here to come and talk about what happened 15 years ago or about how much each is today viewing a political and social reality, and to deal with issues critically and essentially which we must promote if we really want to have the justice that most of you rightly described earlier. That is my personal view. For all the rest, and in relation to two issues which have been raised, I will tell you that I have been asked by a colleague to make a comment on the Committee of Inquiry. The Ministry of Justice does not deal with a parliamentary procedure. I want you to understand that. This is a separate procedure for Parliament, the House. What may have been the case in the recent past, considered to be trumped or given, is not today. We want to keep justice out of any suspicion or shadow of interference not only in the functioning of Parliament but, more generally, in matters or issues that raise questions that cause questionable, reasonably often in the whole of Greek society. On the issue of auctions, which was also heard as a comment earlier, I think most colleagues are making a mistake. They are confusing the issue of the protection of first homes. It may not be you, but many other colleagues do it. I say this because the protection of the first residence on the basis of a statement by the Prime Minister is guaranteed at least until 31 July 2020. The issue of the auctions relating to other procedures is not only about the first place of residence. It is an issue that can be procedurally opened on the basis of what is envisaged by this MFF, to which the Minister of State has referred earlier since the beginning of June, but to see the auctions we will have to arrive in September and later, on the basis of the time described and envisaged, with the closure of the entire procedure in August and on the basis of the time that may be a precondition or need earlier until we get there. This is just to clarify, not to say any, and there is any question or any desire to direct one's thinking or what we will send in another direction rather than in the real direction. With these considerations, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the draft proposed by the Ministry of Justice, believing that in this way we are all taking a brave step together in a direction described by the past, yes, by the previous government, but of course it is improved and completed in a very specific way, with provisions that are strictly necessary, with provisions that improve the operation of justice overall and of course give us the opportunity to judge that justice can now have a completely different picture for the whole of the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2016/80, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/1919, 2014/57 EU, ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments to the Act. 3663/2008 (A' 99) to implement Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions.’; We are entering the vote at first. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u188	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u189	The positions of the parties as reflected in the vote on the electronic system are recorded in the minutes and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u190	The draft law of the Ministry of Justice was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-18-S1-commons.u191	With the consent of the House at 17.17 the sitting for today, Monday, 18 May 2020, immediately after the required disinfection, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) a debate on topical questions; and (b) a debate with number 32/2/5-11-2019 on the topical question by President Fotinis (Photos) Genomes and Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, on the subject: "The government of N.D. will continue. The same policy of SYRIZA, maintaining the mortgage on the Public Property in the Transit and the commitments it has made to lenders or will renegotiate the terms and conditions of its exploitation, as proposed by the Change Movement."
