ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 4-12-20, its minutes with its President, on Friday 4 December 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of Spatial and Urban Law and Other Provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that all the questions scheduled for today will be discussed. So we shall immediately start the debate with two topical questions on the same subject, namely: On the ninth, under number 217/30-11-2020, a topical question by SYRIZA MEP B' Western Attica - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Tsipras to the Minister for Civil Protection on "Questions about the EVA algorithm used in the opening of the country to tourism" and: On the eighth Question No 218/30-11-2020, by MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Criminally the coronary control algorithm at the gates of entry". These topical questions, which deal with the same subject, will be discussed at the same time without affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, in application of the provision in Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question, as you know, concerns the issue of the EVA, the algorithm, which, according to the press releases of civil protection, was also used to open up to tourism. The problem of control at the entrances of countries was not only a problem for Greece, it was a problem for all the countries of the European Union - especially tourists - and nowhere was used with mechanical learning software. Various types of algorithms, software or simple sampling procedures were used. Here in Greece, according to you, a complex model of artificial intelligence designed by an excellent team of scientists was used here. This is from the press release on July 28th. This algorithm, as mentioned in the question itself, and its authors themselves, has not been published in any scientific journal until today, despite the fact that more than six months have passed - the period, as you know, is about three to six months to be published - and there have not even been pre-published on their own site or another, as usual, so that it can be evaluated by a third member of the scientific community. He hasn't been evaluated anywhere. However, it has been used in an extremely critical area, because it concerns public health, and today we are, unfortunately, going through a very tragic period. We're talking about a field that, according to Mr. Vlachoyannis, one of the groups, you could not make any mistakes in this project: "With one error in the data, we would have killed half the country. We'd bring people into the country we shouldn't have brought in. It is absolutely false that at worst the algorithm would simply not improve random sampling. I would remind you of the case in Bergamo, where it is now known that the gross error made was precisely the choice to control only those who came from China. So even random sampling was much better than what was applied in Bergamo." I'm bringing you one example. Besides, the criticality admits her as well as a member of the group, as I said before. Software, therefore, has created algorithms and tools in various countries of the European Union. It's dozens so far. However, little was used through pandemic. Why were few used? Why were these few better than the others? Oh, no. Because those few were definitely safe. They had been evaluated as safe and were most, in their overwhelming majority. That is why no new tools were used, despite the fact that many of the new, unlike the EVA algorithm that was used here, were published scientific tools, they had been evaluated, and yet there was no confidence still to be used. The first example is to bring you the German 'Covid Strategy Calculators'. There is a publication in this regard. It was a serious scientific work that was funded - it was not done within a week because it was requested by the Maximos there - and yet it was not used. In fact, its creators in the relevant pre-publishment mention characteristics that this article is a pre-published article, there has been no evaluation and should therefore not be used before an official evaluation is carried out. I'll file it later in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u4	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The ECDC, the competent scientific body of the European Union, has issued another simpler algorithm that has been used in many countries and we could go there. Of course, there is also the evaluation of this tool by the 'automation Society', which is also a well-known European agency, which speaks of each country separately. Coming to Greece, it states that from the description of this tool, EVA, that is, on the official website it is not clear how the variables are linked to the country of origin and the country of residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Colleague, this is not the case. It's four minutes. You've been...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. So the question, Minister, is this: Who has approved this tool? It's Maximo's scientific team, as we learned? Is this Mr. Mitsotakis? Is that you? Is this the infectious group? Is this Mr. Kikilis? Someone must have approved it. We don't live in Uganda. It's a tool that doesn't have any publication anywhere. Mr President, I am tabling the document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Comrade, thank you. I will immediately give the floor to Mr Arseni. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we reach four minutes for protology, we will take twice as much time throughout this process. Please. We started with Mr. Tsipras, understandable, but from now on we will enter the framework. Mr Arseni, please, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we are currently experiencing the consequences of the fact that in Greece the government has chosen to open up tourism without strengthening hospitals, but also not actually taking action at the gates of entry. Precisely, it seems, to say 'yes' to multinational tourism, which did not want a test, because they did not want any controls and delays, you covered the freedom - in practice - to enter with an algorithm that had not been tested scientifically, that is, it had not been passed through the Peer review. They took all the important data and models before they were applied in society, but we actually applied them experimentally. It was an experiment that didn't work, but it wasn't meant to work. The aim was to unconditionally open up the country to tourism, so that some multinational tourists would not be dissatisfied, even though the revenues were small and the costs were enormous, at the same time as opening up the country to tourism undisturbed, you did not support public hospitals for what it would be following. In practice, with your choice to open the country to tourism, you put it in the krone for the first time, as Greece in the first wave had little exposure to the particularly polluted countries, while with the opening to tourism it actually gained its great exposure to the coronary and we also see the results. Because you do, leaving the health system uncovered, and so for all of us. We really want you to answer both the EVA algorithm and why you combined the EVA algorithm, this experimental model with the total abandonment in practice of the National Health System, what we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, we understand that you have two questions to answer. You'll speak with a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that it is wrong to do all the work we are doing as a country to parallel Bergamo data and at the same time, a criticism that says of any evaluation that has been made by Maximos or anything else. Nevertheless, I will avoid any reasonable, I think, my objections to both the style and the essence of the two topical questions, and I will be content in presenting in my prototype the technical details of the PLF EVA system, the scientific evaluation procedures, as well as the ex post analysis of the effectiveness of the system applied to the management of the country's gateways from 1 July to 1 November 2020, in the evolution of the global COVID pandemic -19, how it emerged and how it was assessed at an initial stage, in order to be chosen. After what is necessary during the first wave of the Lockdown pandemic and in line with the European directive on the unrestricted movement of citizens between the countries of the European Union and third countries - because it was - as defined at European level every two weeks - I present to Parliament the relevant document - starting on 1 July, the global scientific community, the National Committee of Experts, as well as the Epidemiologists' group since March 2020, was planning a strategy for opening borders. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Different countries - Member States of the European Union, respecting the Community directive, have established different epidemiological protocols with key pillars: firstly, the control of border travellers, the so-called'screening' measure, ex post preservatives by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, secondly, the requirement of a negative PCR test result or the creation of a travellers' quarantine, rather than universally, based on the published epidemiological data of each country and, thirdly, the completion of a form of travellers' data. Before 1 May the National Committee of Experts in cooperation with the General Secretariat of Public Health, given the need to open borders and because of the green epidemiological situation worldwide defined as basic axes - based on the safety of citizens and travellers - the following: firstly, random sampling of 10-15% of incoming cases based on domestic laboratory testing, as defined by the General Secretariat of Public Health; secondly, the weekly adjustment of health protocols based on published epidemiological data, i.e. the fourteen-day sum of cases per 100 000 population, the rate of positiveness and the number of tests. On April 30, Drakopoulos, the head of the EVA team, contacted the country's Prime Minister, offering assistance from his and his team, given his prior investigation into the field of Applied Mathematicians with emphasis on the fight against epidemics. The Prime Minister responded. After a 30-minute discussion, the Prime Minister forwarded the contact details to the Scientific Panthology Group of Epidemiologists, composed of Professor of Pathology and Litology, Professor of Health Sciences of the University of Thessaly, Professor of Health and Epidemiology, EKPA Medical School, and Professor of Epidemiology at the University of Harvard Mr. Pagonas Layu, Professor of Health and Epidemiology of the Health Sciences of the University of Thessaly, Mr. Hatzistodou, Deputy Professor of Epidemiology and Medicine of the Medical School of EKEPA Mr. Dimitrios Friday and Assistant Professor of the Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology of the Medical School of EKA Mr. At the first meeting on 1 May, EVA proposed optimising the sampling at the entrance gates, following the following steps: the creation of the electronic form for the identification of passengers, the PLF, with the aim of ensuring timely and effective traceability of the positive controls, the immediate implementation of the changing sanitary protocols at the entry points of the country and the algorithmic optimisation of the available tests, as defined by the Secretariat-General for Public Health at the country's gates. The target was obvious. Firstly, using travellers’ data as submitted to the PLF to identify the highest possible number of carriers of the disease and, secondly, the timely risk assessment of different countries. This scientific question was not before and the solution was designed from the start by the EVA group based on at least a decade of well-known tools of Applied Mathematics and Statistics. The problem, due to the targeting of the epidemiological situation at global level, required the use of methods from different fields. In particular, four different axes were required: Firstly, the modelling of epidemics and meditationary processes. Mr. Drakopoulos has been conducting research in this field since 2012 with the emphasis on optimising the distribution of limited resources in epidemic control with a series of publications in the field. Drakopoulos was first introduced to Greece at the National Technical University and graduated second. His doctorate conducted it at the U.S. MIT and is now an assistant professor of Data Science and Operations at the University of South California. I'm filing Mr. Drakopoulos' CV. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Moreover, given the liquid epidemiological situation of each country and the huge number of combinations of characteristics, each traveler was required a second element, which was the dynamic targeting optimisation with sparsely high-dimensional data. Mr Visal Goupta has been conducting an investigation into this problem since 2010 in a series of publications. American citizenship Mr. Visal Goupta graduated from Yale and MIT and is now an assistant professor of Data Science and Operations at the University of South California. I'm putting down Mr. Gupta's CV. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Then the decisions had to - and I want you to emphasise this - be taken every night between 0.00' and 0.01', in a minute, so real time optimisation was required as a third element. Indian citizenship, Mr. Hamza Bastani, is conducting research in this field on a series of publications. Mrs. Bastani graduated from Harvard and Stanford and is now an assistant informatics professor at the University of Pennsylvania. I'm filing Mrs. Bastani's CV 11 pages. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Citizen Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Finally, as a fourth equally important element for the good functioning of the overall new technological ecosystem, safe, rapid and reliable communication of the digital governance platform with the EVA server was required. In order to make this possible, the group's fourth Mr.Giannis Vlachoyannis designed the EVA database, optimised the implementation of the algorithm code and implemented the necessary communication protocol, the so-called "application programming interface" between the two systems. Mr. Vlachoyannis is the founder of two highly successful technological companies in San Francisco and Los Angeles, USA. In the period from 1 May to 1 July, when the scientific method was implemented, the approach was assessed on a daily basis by the Scientific Panel of Epidemiologists. Operational and technological design was evaluated daily by the General Secretariat of Public Health, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Digital Governance. The algorithmic solution that has been designed has been based on globally known scientifically based mathematics and decades - I stress it - proven to be effective methods and adapted to the needs of our national planning. In other words, the forty points of entry, the availability of tests at each point of entry, as defined by the General Secretariat of Public Health and, finally, the conservative risk profile decided by the political leadership. In other words, a profile based not on facilitating travellers from countries with a large share of tourists in the country, but solely on the protection of public health. Globally, the technological contribution, the electronic form PLF combined with algorithmic target sampling, the EVA system, was not submitted to be assessed. It is recalled at this point that the EVA team was not paid either for the offer of the software or for the servers used on the Amazon Web Services platform. Following the scientific evaluation phase of the results from the subgroup of epidemiologists and the operational potential for implementation, approval for the operation of the system was granted on 15 June, subject to continued monitoring of the system and the distribution of the tests and results from the epidemiological subgroup. In the event that the system at any time yielded less than with regard to random sampling, the possibility of a direct conversion into the initial complete randomisation plan was implemented as back up and could be applied immediately in one day. The technical implementation of the platform was carried out by the Ministry of Digital Governance after that decision and the platform was ready on 28 June 2020. The problem, which the EVA has solved, therefore, required the use of both scientific and technical tools that only scientists and engineers with deep expertise could develop and implement with caution, accuracy and the greatest possible safety, especially during a pandemic that does not give us the luxury of time. A few teams in the world - you said this too - can combine the necessary specialisation in all areas and the offer of such a group was a happy time, especially by noting that the planet is still waiting for proposed health protocols on travel between countries. Fortunately, once again, science has not been disproved. Border management through the PLF and EVA have been entitled to the wider scientific and operational team that has been working uninterruptedly during the summer. The business results allow me to present them at the end of my protology or in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u11	In dentistry better, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u12	Just please, I need some more time. I think the Members will want it too. These are very important and I think they are not just addressed to the House. It is good that all Greek citizens become social... How did each body get involved? Involved by the Secretariat-General for Public Health set by the EVA the number of available PCR test per gateway on the basis of laboratory capabilities, the number of tests required for the epidemiological observation and internal needs of the country, while the Epidemiologist subgroup assessed the technical solution of the EVA group as well as the country-by-country risk assessments. The PLF database was developed and supported by the Ministry of Digital Governance. Finally, the IRI database was and is still under the technical supervision of the Ministry of Digital Governance and the supervision of the General Secretariat of Public Health and returns ‘animated’ aggregated data to the EVA algorithm. What is EVA algorithm? Many analyses have been carried out especially lately. The algorithm code is freely provided on the GitHub website in the context of free access to the software. I present the main components of the proposed solution. I apologise for the use of English terms but both the optimisation methods and the analysis of the data still do not have a satisfactory translation into Greek. For the presentation of the algorithm, we use a typical example of the distribution of seven and a half thousand tests at forty gates of entry controlled by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection through the EVA system. I'm starting by presenting the subroutin of the risk profile evaluation. What's the risk evaluation routine? Historical data shall include the characteristics of each examiner and the outcome of that examination. So for each collection of features - let's take an example from Catalonia, Spain, a traveller's twenty-three-year-old man - historical data provide a positive assessment, that is, positive for the whole, by category.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Undersecretary, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u14	Such an assessment would have been extremely inaccurate and unstable for the two reasons: the actual rate of positiveity of the asymptomatic population considered at the gates of entry is extremely small, resulting in the data being fully inaccurate. The number of different profiles, if not carefully defined, is exponentially large. For example, forty countries, five regions, eighty years of age, possibly sex, equals forty-eight thousand categories. With seven and a half thousand tests a day, it would take a week to perform only one test on each profile. In the routine of estimates, in order to address the problems of the rat data of the exponentially large number of profiles, cross-country learning was used and, most importantly, internamic features extraction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Undersecretary, you'll tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u16	I'll move on a little quick.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Undersecretary, you have a lot of dentistry. You'll tell your dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u18	In any case, however, I would like to focus on something, Mr President, with your tolerance, because there has been a great debate on whether some countries have implemented or evaluated this. I would like you to give me two minutes, with the tolerance of the honourable Members and to say this: during the tourist months, namely from 1 July to 1 November, Greece, like most countries worldwide, has experienced great uncertainty about the protocol on opening the borders. Different countries have used - you have said so too - different health protocols on the treatment of visitors. And let me quickly - and close - set out examples of countries with great tourist traffic and their health protocols. The strictness of health protocols is different. For example, in Croatia all visitors had to have a negative PCR test for for forty-eight hours, otherwise they were offered fourteen days quarantine. So the outbreak in this country started early August and was much more pronounced than Greece. In Spain, no actual restrictions were introduced, resulting in an outbreak immediately after the borders were opened. And in the United Kingdom, with a proposal from fourteen days' quarantine and a small scale of certified controls, much smaller, Mr Tsipras, from our own, the outbreak started in early September. At this point I would like to make a practical response to some of the issues you have raised. I'll look after my dentistry. In any case, however, I would like to say that the contribution of the EVA algorithm to the effort to safeguard public health lies in maximising the effectiveness of controls and in warninging the epidemiological situation of the authorised areas in time. I don't want to abuse your tolerance. In any case, however, I would like to ask that in the second instance, whatever information is involved in the EVA in relation to tourism, should be raised and submitted. If there really is evidence that the EVA algorithm has had a negative impact on the opening of tourism, I would ask that they be submitted here to the House to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u19	Look, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Twice a year you understand that it is not in favour of Members because when you use the two minutes and become four, it uses seven and it becomes fifteen! Please, Mr. Tsipras, be on the line. Come on, if you'd like, step in and talk. You normally won't allow it, but if you want to speak without the mask, come on. Mr. Triantafylides, if the road is opened, you should come to the Step to speak without a mask, what should I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u20	It's too hard to talk with a mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u21	That won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to ask for a very small tolerance. I will try to be extremely brief. I want to start with Mr. Chardalia's last question. Mr Chardalias in a press release as Deputy Minister of Civil Protection on 28 July, says: "To ensure that the opening of tourism does not jeopardise what we have achieved, we have created a special algorithm, the EVA". Whether the algorithm had a hole in the water - which is the good scenario - or damaged, that is, its application has had a negative effect on controls over random sampling, this can only be seen if, even now, the algorithm is given publicity. He knows all the scientific community who the algorithm is and even now that we're talking about has not been published. You didn't answer that. Why don't you and the scientific team go public together? And secondly, along with the data used by the algorithm. So we will be able to answer the question of whether or not he has damaged it. This is something that remains to be learned, but you have the moral and formal obligation to make it public. Mr. Hardalia, you did not answer the questions I raised. So, what did you say? I keep this: From what Mr Mitsotakis said, he contacted Mr. Drakopoulos and recommended that the Committee on Infectiouss check, see this algorithm. First of all, let me tell you that infectiousists are not a specialty that can control a mechanical learning algorithm in terms of sampling. It's not, unfortunately. But let's say it is. Do scientists, who simply recommend, assume the formal responsibility for the application of the algorithm? They're taking over to do a scientific suggestion. Who has finally approved an algorithm and a scientific tool, which - I repeat - has not been published and has not been evaluated. Nowhere has a system been applied, which has not been published anywhere scientifically. You have said a lot about the past, the curriculum, where they have studied, whether they have succeeded first, etc. First, others may have succeeded first and second. The question is: Since it is such a terrible instrument, why has it not been accepted in any other country of the European Union? It wasn't accepted anywhere. Mr Drakopoulos himself appears to say that he was also proposed to other countries, which were hesitant. Those are his words. I personally want to see with my eyes that it was indeed proposed and that the countries were hesitant, if there is any answer, whether there is a negative answer and not even a hesitant one, but it was not adopted by any country of the European Union. If it is such a great scientific team - and it is not my subject, the scientific team - and it has produced such a great deal of work and the tool is so sure, why has it not been adopted by anyone else? It's very simple. The basic question, however, is another: Tool, which has not been assessed and cannot Maximus assess, nor five infectious scholars to assess, why has it been implemented and no other tools that exist throughout the European Union that were certainly safe? I should like to tell you here, because you probably don't know it, and Mr. Drakopoulos didn't tell you, perhaps, that, especially in the health field, software, which is used worldwide and throughout the Western world at least, needs special certification. Of course, much more when tools are used, which are not published and have absolutely no evaluation. I also expect you to answer these questions and, above all, to make the algorithm and the data it uses public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Tsipras, for keeping time. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, are you telling us that Mr. Chiodras and Mr. Mayorkin, with all due respect for the two doctors - infectious doctors, that they examined the mathematical model? Is it not obvious that the committee examining an algorithm must have mathematical, statistical, self-evident specialties? You mentioned the people who participated in the implementation and application of the algorithm to explain that it had been examined by people. But obviously the one who applies it cannot be the same as the one who examines whether or not the theory stands. To cover all the unauthorized ones you mentioned so many times the word "Harvard". You know, I've studied in Harvard, but first I finished Greek elementary, high school, high school and polytechnic. It is not something that impresses us to stop here. Let's go a little bit. You need to tell us who the mathematicians and the statistics were, who approved the algorithm. Generally, this idea that someone sends an e-mail to Mr. Mitsotakis, and then it goes through that he thinks it is a very good idea and sends it to the Committee on Infectiouss to approve a statistical algorithm you understand that it shows a great pathogen in the functioning of the government. Greek scientists didn't mention. Why didn't you invite well-known mathematicians and statisticians from the Greek universities to participate in this examination of the algorithm? If it is scientific, it is generally published in scientific magazines, otherwise it is an experiment. And we don't have to go far. I will refer to the statements by Drakopoulos on TVXS, where - as described in the article - Mr Drakopoulos argues that the rest of the European Union were hesitant about the adoption of the EVA, and admits that it was impossible to determine in advance the level of contribution of the algorithm to the protection of Greece from any incoming coronary cases. In this sense, EVA was a Greek experiment. And the article continues by saying that the contribution of EVA to public health was not measurable when the system was implemented and no one can count it or now that it has ended its implementation. You're really asking us to bring you evaluation data when you don't have these evaluations. I would like to return the question to you: Where are the evaluation elements of the algorithm? For me, the quality assessment is currently in our hospitals. It is, of course, combined with your health policy, but tell us what your assessment is. And not to talk in general, to see another country, a very poor, developing country. Let's see how Cuba manages its visitors' waves. I am rereading relevant articles from the Greek newspapers. They say that all luggage is disinfected, they all test, thermometer, and then they wait for quarantine hotels for one, maximum two days. They pay a 30 euro insurance for those who need to be able to cover any health problems that may arise in Cuba. This is for poor Cuba. We in Europe have left Greece undisturbed today. You left it because you do not want to negotiate with the tourist companies, because you do not want to negotiate for this country and leave it double-handed at the same time, if you do not want to strengthen the public health system, do not want to displease the clinical authorities, do not want to put any obstacles to your privatisation plans. The essence of the debate today is that we invite you to admit the mistake in the EVA. Reinforce public hospitals before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u27	When it suits you, invoke the World Organisation. When it does not interest you, invoke Cuba, where the World Organisation - indirectly but clearly - is talking about sub-declaration of cases in the wider region. I understand the need to ideologically cope with this, because your model is Cuba, in relation to all the rest that we do, but I will not go into this process of ideological controversy. We have a system which has proved that this model would ensure with seven and a half thousand targeted tests that it would be possible to obtain fifteen to twenty-five thousand hails of haunted tests. And that is clear and proven by its own application. In any case, the issue of publication is not about the government, it is about the scientific team itself, which, in the time provided for and within December - from what we know and have informed us - will proceed to a publication. Unfortunately, however, I see that even now no real given fact is accompanying any of your opposition krone - you will allow me to say - they are heard of the responsibility of tourism and I am obliged to come back. The question is simple. Is it the EVA algorithm for tourism and is tourism involved in the epidemiological outbreak in the country? The facts are as follows: The analysis team of the Ministry of Digital Governance, combining the estimates of the EVA and the destination data of the respective tourists, defined every week the regions of the country with a comparatively higher incoming load. The KMHs each end of the week carried out targeted checks on these destinations to professional tourism. No statistically different from the rest of the population was observed in these interventions. Also, throughout the summer the aim of the system was to make the necessary interventions to keep the incoming epidemiological load stable and minimal. In order to do so, we have made difficult decisions that cost professionals tourism, but always - something you cannot understand - our approach was to minimize the epidemiological risk alone. This has actually been achieved, as during the summer the variation in the incoming load - and I challenge you to read the statistics - is practically zero. Clear evidence of this is that the domestic cases remained stable until the end of September. Since through the system we have an image of the exact true positiveity and therefore of the difference in the community of any country other than Greece, the spread begins five to thirty days before the exponential phase of each epidemic. At the beginning of the exponential phase in our country around 11 October, the spreading into the community began between 11 September and 6 October. During this period, both tourist arrivals and incoming loads are the minimum during the whole summer and indeed at a downward trend. And returning to some strange periods of Greek history, I would like to reply to a comment that was made through the timely questions. You say: 'Because it's possible that the only criterion for selecting the composite model of intelligence, an excellent team of scientists, is the acquaintance and access of this group to government officials...'. So I say to you that Mr Drakopoulos, unfortunately, has to share with the Members of SYRIZA and Mer25 who ask questions, political convictions. Mr. Drakopoulos assures you that he had no relationship before 30 April with any members of the Greek Government, let alone the Prime Minister himself. Mr. Drakopoulos comes from a family with ideological references to the Left. We never asked him about his political opinions. However, he has never been associated with any political party. He is missing from the country for eleven years and ideologically himself confessing and being in favour of the social state, in terms of education, health, minimum income and the free market. I am saying this about history, which, unfortunately, you are still reluctant - in terms of ideological obsessional aids and awkward unreasonable positions, regardless of the substance of a model algorithm that has finally been implemented in our country, one step ahead of all the other European countries. And one last thing about the style of your question, Mr Arsenis, with absolute respect for parliamentary rights, is that you blame us as criminals - because that is what you say, you speak of a 'criminal algorithm' - in normal practice. The unfounded criticism, and as far as the limits, will allow me to say - populism, without real proposals and solutions, and the constant trend in braking of all progress, has for years kept the country back and has thrown hundreds of thousands of young people from two of whom are also part of the EVA group. So now you are trying, a hostage of any micro-party and micro-political searches, to discourage a group of people from reworking with the country. I heard the question: 'Greek scientists have been used?' Aren't they Greek scientists? Are they not people who have Greece in the heart and who are away tens of thousands of kilometres? Personally, no surprise is causing me. You choose against science, against progress itself, to operate in terms of absolute middle ages. And I know what I'm saying. You baptize "magic" what you don't understand and ask to burn on fire. You don't know what the algorithm says. You don't know who's been evaluated. Mr. Tsipras reasonably, structured and formed asks what exactly. And you, before you know all this, call it "criminal," without knowing what it is. You're asking what it is, but you've decided before that it's criminal. As modern Ludites - I will say so - you are baptizing excellence and innovation and ultimately making progress as a "crime" and you are simply trying with various - I'm sorry to tell you - flammable and communication extremes to structure your argument. Finally, we will not follow you in these barren controversy. On behalf of the Greek state we want to thank the EVA for its offer to the country at this difficult time. In the summer of 2021, next summer, if the pandemic has not expired and the number of tests is still limited in relation to arrivals, we inform you that we will use the exact same system. We also hope that other foreign scientists, who have lost over recent years - or even in the interior - who would like to help to formulate a national strategy on all fronts, will come forward. We will support them in any way we can, because that, in the end, is what times stress, our responsibilities vis-à-vis all Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u28	We now move on to the debate of the third under number 200/26/11-2020 on a topical question of the First Cycle of the MP Drama of the Change Movement Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Health, on "The situation at the General Hospital of Dramas because of the pandemic". Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening to all colleagues, Minister. It is true that I have been very concerned about the tabling of this timely one. The time imposes a lot of work and a few words, and my thought is whether a timely and so many other references and questions, which have precedented, can help to reverse the current borderline situation in the only public hospital in Drama, which is still working thanks to the superhuman effort and self-determination of medical and nursing personnel. From your answers, it remains to be seen whether or not it made sense. Our hospital is subordinated. You'll tell me you don't hear it for the first time. We are 50% under the staff provided for in the establishment plan. We have had a shortage for years both in human resources and infrastructure and in this whole dire climate, we have also been called upon to raise a pandemic without any aid. We were all aware of this, I think, that without infrastructure and staffing we would not be able to cope effectively. We also knew that in this second wave we would have increased needs. So we arrive in December and have already measured human losses. A hundred fellow citizens have lost their lives, a hundred other people, workers in the hospital, been hospitalized or quarantine and, unfortunately, this sad first of our aerospace patients is the one that showed - and it is the tragic proof, if you like - the hospital's limiting function and the inability to care for ever-increasing incidents. And this is a reality that no one disputes, except Mr Kikilia himself, who, in an interview with what he found to say? That the Hospital of Drama has no problem, that the city of Drama has the problem and that the hospital has sufficient staff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a moment of your tolerance because the question is very important. I have to tell you that, following a series of persistent communications I have had with all the institutional actors for a month now, I have first made sure that I am informed and then informed in good time about the borderline for the General Hospital of Drama. Unfortunately, however, there was no real solution. But what's most worrying about it? That at some point - and I thank you very much - I was forced to contact you and we spoke, as with Mr Chardalia who has just left, I found that the way in which we understand and live certain things in Drama is not the same as the image you have here in Athens. The truth is that if Mr Metius had not intervened - and I also thank him - and the Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, had not come to Drama, the problems would continue to be hidden under the carpet until we have the first airlocks and no longer the matter could be left behind. So I ask you: why, Minister, did the situation have to be avoided so much, we have to lose people, and that is the inability of the system to respond but also from the lack of basic information, organisation and sound planning? How is it possible for the Ministry not to know that at this critical time this hospital had to serve a whole prefecture? How can you let the hospital administration act spasmically and improperly, opening up other ICU beds without having the ability to do so and leaving other very critical incidents either not to be served or to be in danger of sticking? So I ask: what about the hospital now, even if it's late? What immediate steps will you take and what measures will you take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u30	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kefalidou, thank you really for the communication we had. But let me put things in place as regards the situation at the General Hospital of Drama. Yes, I'll repeat it - we always say - we've received it subordinated. It wasn't subjugated from one day to the next. And, of course, gaps and shortcomings are not covered by one day in the next. And during the pandemic we took advantage of it in order to cover lost ground and to a large extent we did it. Let me remind you that, since our original plan for two thousand ancillary recruitments, we have exceeded seven thousand recruitments right now. Already permanent doctors are all over the national health system, service and crises are completed, especially in intensive care units, in order to strengthen the health system. I shall mention, for example, the communication from the 4th Health Region, which describes recruitment. It is ten specialist doctors, thirty-nine nurses, thirteen for staff of other specialists, as well as the approval of credit for another twenty-three people. At the same time, six-month contracts were concluded with two private doctors in the anaesthetics and pneumonology specialties and were carried out by health centers. I would also remind you that we were the ones who legislated to extend all fixed-term contracts, i.e. ancillary staff, until the end of October 2021 in order to avoid losses to the national health system. You're aggressing us for the management of the pandemic by saying we didn't have a plan. That's not true. Of course it's not just a matter of people. Yeah, they've been hired, there's got to be more, cover up all the gaps. Our design is normally implemented, under very difficult conditions and Drama - like many other areas in northern Greece - has been in the eye of the cyclone in the last few years. The powers and capabilities of each hospital are specific and not inexhaustible. We have had a huge outbreak of cases, and it makes sense to accept this pressure that all hospitals received. It is logical that a provincial hospital needs the help of a larger hospital in order to respond to increased needs. And with the hospitals in Thessaloniki, that's what happened. This has also been done with the EKAV crossings in other hospitals and with the aerospace facilities. Here we see that other countries are transporting patients to neighbouring countries. At the Hospital of Drama we proceeded to the necessary restructuring of its functions in order to be able to respond to too much pressure on the incidents of coronary patients. And we have put in place a specific plan on the one hand to protect the staff of the hospital - which we must do here, and it is important not only for us to get out of this crisis, but also for the health staff who are fighting the front line at this time and who must provide health services not only to patients with a coronary but also to all other patients who have various health problems - and, on the other, to serve the care of coronary patients. Let me remind you that visitors have been banned from relatives and friends. Surgery decreased, regular surgery. Adequacy ensured in personal protective equipment. Over forty beds were developed, yes, in such a hospital, for coronary patients and twelve ICU beds. Yes, indeed, a small hospital like that of Drama - and not only that, but other hospitals - exaggerated themselves in order to respond to these difficult circumstances. And especially for exclusive patient clinics with COVID -19 I have to tell you that there are very strict protocols that are kept out of range from nursing and medical staff. These protocols impose clinical conditions for coronary patients not to treat patients with other diseases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Undersecretary, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u33	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, co-existence of coronary patients with non COVID cannot apply. And a report, allow me, oxygen adequacy for the hospital. We must all think about it - we say it and we understand it, and we admit it - that the increase in demand not only for oxygen but also for other services has been slashed. And Drama Hospital was specifically invited to raise a large weight disproportionate to its size and it has done so so far. Let me remind you that the oxygen supply needs for the patients doubled from 3.4 litres per minute to 25 to 30. Once again, we have responded immediately and adequately and in cooperation with the Department of Health and Health, and we have carried out work on upgrading the substation, and we have ensured the increased oxygen supply needs. I'm going to continue on secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr Secretary, of course, you have your dentistry. Mrs. Kefalidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, I listened very carefully and I follow closely what is being done at the General Hospital of Drama, the efforts, the time, the measures taken naturally. I accept that whatever planning you had, the reality would go beyond it. However, what we did not have to achieve in today's tragic image and in the bad state of the hospital to see now what we should have done and which you had to know from the first wave of pandemic. Because if we accept that you knew the real picture, then we're talking about the greatest negligence. If you still did not know her, the serious problems we are facing, then you certainly have a problem with your administrative base and with the information and communication channels. What I'm describing may be something that doesn't scare the public administration, to accept it. But when we are, as the Prime Minister says, at war, you must be to the greatest degree of vigilance and you must control your administrative base and have an image for every hospital, even for the most distant, because there are people struggling to save their lives and to save their lives and no complacentness. No one claims that in this war we will have no losses. Your job, however, is to do everything in order to limit them and our job is to highlight and highlight the shortcomings and failures, especially those which can be corrected immediately, having the experience of the first wave. Either way, there should be an organisation and a plan to upgrade infrastructure and strengthen staff. I want to tell you we're the hospital that didn't have a molecular analyst. Not even requested in the first wave of the pandemic. The samples are going - until a few days ago - to the DIMMOCRITATE with four - five days late. Fortunately, there are also social media and we have learned that the fellow Member of the New Democracy went and took one from the IPAE of Thessaloniki and brought him to our hospital. Also, our hospital, you know, made this extension to the forty beds with a horizontal arrangement, not vertical, such as the international standard. And, of course, this has extended the problem known since last March and is the availability of oxygen, in which you have done very well and referred to it. We are talking here about the fact that a few days ago there was consultation with the region - and that is the positive one, that local government at least appears to have reflexively - and there was a guarantee of funds to enable an infrastructure upgrade to the hospital and only on Thursday there were sixty-five bottles of oxygen from Italy. But I would like to ask you: does anyone know if all this meets the needs of the hospital? Because anyway, the image of the administration's announcements is that 'we control the situation completely', before these actions even take place. And, unfortunately, I would like to tell you that there is a shocking statement here - confession of a nurse, which I will then present in the newspaper 'First Theme', which says exactly what happens with the lack of oxygen at Drama Hospital. We are the hospital with a hundred and a half people on the five hundred workers who are struggling to save themselves, because they are either hospitalized or quarantine in relation to what is being done in the hospital. He's a pneumonologist - you know that very well - and an adjunctive, four pathologists of which two are ill, and what have you done? You did very well. You seconded two more from neighboring hospitals for one month and one volunteer from Henry Dunnan. But this, you know, in a world that works nights with constant overtime...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u36	Madam Colleague...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u37	Please, Mr. President. I said from the beginning I'd need some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u38	I get it, but you've been through four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u39	It's not easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u40	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u41	Well, without protective uniforms, with continuous on-calls, with terrible mental and physical fatigue, these people have to operate three CIVID clinics, actually set up at the last minute of the guilt. In fact, the administration also wanted a fourth CIVID clinic to set up, but without being aware that it is far beyond what the hospital itself provided it. The situation at some point, as you can see, has come to the unprecedented. And here's what I'm going to tell you, because we're talking about temper and administration, which should have all these features. Don't confuse temperament and analgesia. Temperature in order to have a sense of responsibility, a good picture of the situation, a timely mobilised, a plan and an organization, a fair and reliable and not a patient and a staff at risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u42	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u43	That's why I want to tell you. It would be preferable to be the Ministry's greatest care for medical and nursing staff, how it will effectively cover the shortcomings in the elementary infrastructure, how it will facilitate this organization of the three clinics, so as not to risk patients and staff, what care it will give all these people who, on time of service, have lost their lives, whether they are nurses, whether they are auxiliary personnel or doctors. And when will you finally realize that this is an elementary obligation of the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u44	Madam Colleague, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u45	Finally, when will you decide that local government and institutional bodies must be officially informed - why is it a link in the chain of national effort and can contribute the maximum - instead of trying to justify the unjustified beds for the ICUs, where are four doctors with seven ICUs and now with twelve are also four?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u46	Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u47	And for the oxygen you said, so far we don't have a picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kefalidou, you mentioned that we have hidden the problems under the carpet and had to intervene and that Mr Chrysochoidis had to go up to the area and that there is no elementary information and planning. Let me say that the only thing that is not missing is regular information, planning and direct response to the issues that arise. You know very well - I said, no one disagrees - that he accepted Drama Hospital, like other small hospitals in the regions of northern Greece, a pressure disproportionate to their capabilities. And our aim is to protect these hospitals, to protect the population, to inform the population that it must comply with the measures, so that we do not have the hospitals that we have, to protect the health staff, to keep the cases low between the health staff by complying with all the protocols and procedures that are laid down and, fortunately, to a large extent there are. In health staff, in relation to international indicators, yes, we have losses in terms of coronary disease or quarantine, but fortunately it is still low, and that is what we are trying to do. There has been no personal protection and we are taking immediate action to resolve these problems. I told you: there were shortcomings, there were distortions. We've covered important gaps. We are there all the time, not only in Drama but in surrounding areas. We are constantly meeting growing needs, trying to strengthen the hospital with additional nursing staff and with volunteer doctors, with private doctors, who come to help, in order to strengthen the hospital and successfully cope with this critical situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. We continue with the first with No 202/27-11-2020 topical question of the second question of the Greek MP, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Most imposed by the final solution on the issue of the four thousand employees of the OAED, as well as all contractors and adjudicators of all specialties in the Greek Ministry of Health. - Permanent solution, permanent employment relationships in the National Health System (NHS)". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, some time ago relatives, friends and colleagues, said goodbye to the thirty-seven-year-old evangelism, technician - radiologist from Naoussa. Eight sanitaries have lost their lives and ten are struggling to the ICU. Two thousand are in illness. The Gospel that "leaved" was written on August 19th: "The temperature at some point went up, I sweated very much, but I didn't take the mask off. You know why? Because I'm tired and I want to finish with the virus." And I read that because, you know, Minister, Mr. Contozamani, you don't answer me, answer those who are noblely up there somewhere. You answer if you need them. You have said so and I shall now refer to this. Answer the guard and the cleaner, answer the radiologist, the physiotherapist and the haematologist. Answer the nurse, traumatizer, cabin assistants, food and pharmacy. Precious rings of a life chain called the National Health System. The title of my question says it all: "The final solution to the question of the four thousand employees of the OAED, the contractors and the adjudicators of all specialties - a permanent solution, permanent working relationships in the ESS". Or, to define it on the contrary, no worker in the ERC without a permanent employment relationship. Do I call them? No, Mr. Contozamanis says so. This is the fourth time I have come before you, Minister, and I put the question. I want to read out on the three previous ones what you said and fill out with what the Prime Minister said. "The needs are enormous. No one's left over from the National Health System. We need them all," you said, Mr Contozamani. "The necessity and safeguarding of these positions is indeed vital to these health structures, because no one is left with it," you said, Mr Kontozamanis. "All contract workers will remain in the ESS," you told me on 30 May, "why all of them need it." You said below to me on 30 May: 'We are in discussions with the co-legislative ministries in order to ensure the best possible solution. I am sure..." you said at that time that in a very short time we will have an answer on this matter. You told me that on 30 May. It's been six months. You have clarified in my next speech and said, Mr. Kontozamanis: "We have given a solution for a year and we are trying to find a solution to this matter permanently. And because you have spoken of permanent solutions and said that there must be permanent solutions to the national health system, yes, Mr Triantafylides." Mr. Contozamanis, you need to be clear. When the Prime Minister told you on November 26, speaking to the PESYarchs, "is a commitment that we had made to all the nurses who were hired during this crisis", what did the Prime Minister mean? Did he mean that the doctors and nurses who have now been hired will be permanently simulated in the time of the crisis? That's all?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u52	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u53	Since it is clear, as you said, and I do not know if you are disagreeing with the Prime Minister, that everyone needs, that no one is more, permanent solutions, no worker without a permanent employment relationship. Mr Contozamani - I'm ending with a phrase - we're not managing. We've got a pandemic once in a hundred years. The moments are historical. And I'm not here to make an opposition. I'm here to participate in the forehead of life, along with all parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u54	Please, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u55	I'll be done. If I may, Mr President, because it is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u56	It's all important!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u57	That's a matter of life. That's what we're talking about. Along with all the parties on the forefront of life to decide that here and now all the contractors, all the assistants, doctors and nurses, will be permanentized.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u58	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u59	It is the least we can do toward those who play crowns every day - letters of their lives and flee from life, Mr. Contozamani!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. You can say all you want in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Triantafylides, I'm thinking about how much I'd like to be in your place. From the security of the post of Congressman, you are calling for the permanentisation of the four thousand employees of the OAED programme to bodies of the Ministry of Health. However, since you thought about it better, in order to avoid graying, please fill in 'and fill out all contractors serving in the National Health System'. I've answered you before and I'm answering: I'm with you. I fully share your request, because it is also a request that the current government wants to implement. However, there are certain issues to be resolved, which you as government did not provide solutions. Why didn't you just let them in and leave these issues? That's what you tell me, I'll tell you the same thing. These are issues on which we are working and looking for solutions. The four thousand contractors benefiting from the OAED programme are in the health system, Mr Triantafylides, right now. Nobody's gone. And the only thing for sure is that we cannot go on with more than twenty thousand staff hired from one day to another, which you assemble. And I think you know that and you understand this, because your government has also dealt with it. All political forces are required to strengthen human resources in the health system and thus to fill gaps in organic positions. We are all on the same side, and we really want workers with fixed-term contracts to permanently cover the gaps, shortcomings and, more generally, the needs of the health system. But I repeat that the way is not simple. There's no magic wand. We can neither tomorrow in a week nor in a month all of them to join them. We need time. We are working in this direction and we have also taken concrete measures. We also extended the OAED programme. We have also extended ancillary staff contracts until the end of October 2021. Can I tell you something? I'll say it again because you're telling us. If it was that simple, why didn't you last them in the four and a half years when you ruled? And you referred to the point in your question in a phrase that I used in my earlier answer to a similar question: "You people of the SYRIZA have passed on to us a problem". What did I tell you? What's got to be an impression on you? What did I tell you it wasn't true? You hired them the benefit of the OAED programme. We have arranged for them to remain in the National Health System today and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the OAED, twice at the corresponding prolongation of the programme. It was something that had to be done. We have been able to do so and we have implemented it. The status of subsidiary is your creation. Good, we've said it's a useful tool to cover emergencies. With all honesty and I myself and the Minister, and we have all been told - we have not hesitated - that thanks to this tool we have been able and hired to the National Health System to deal with the needs of more than seven thousand subsidiary doctors, nurses and other staff. So I am quite accurate and I am aware of what I have at times said from this step in the context of parliamentary control. There is a clear political will of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to launch all those interventions that will determine the way in which the National Health System will be strengthened to permanent staff. At the same time, subsidiary and other staff with fixed-term contracts - serving and serving in hospitals and health centres - will be allowed to claim the permanent posts they will be called upon. Finally, all the government's commitments, such as those concerning subsidiary nursing staff, subsidiary doctors of intensive care units and other similar services, are assumed to be implemented to the full. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u62	Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor. Please be within time, not a minute more. You took three minutes in the previous process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u63	Mrs. Kefalidou took ten minutes. Leave it, Mr. President, please! I'm from Thessaloniki. You're welcome. Mr. Contozamani, I've told you from the outset that I don't want to make an opposition. Why are you oppositioning the opposition? I come from the carved Thessaloniki. You have huge responsibilities for what is happening in my city, for every neighborhood mourning a man, that he is in the "red" since 16 November and emit "SOS" doctors, nurses, nurses. Why are you doing this? I also answered you last time and told you that you owe Blonde and Paul - to Paul and Blonde - because they were able in these ways - the contractors and the subsidiary - to keep the National Health System up, the four hundred thirty ID to make it five hundred sixty. They thus managed to overcome the rifty break of the troika and the memorials that said "five retired, one hired". Now we come and tell you all the parties, all the political leaders - recently spoke to the Secretary-General of the JRC about this - about the four thousand and there is no vote or nothing! Forget it, we're talking about lives, about lives that lose first of all these people! At the time when you're the extra-parliamentary, I as a MP, the lawyer, the civil engineer, the civil servant is at home doing teleworking, the nurse, the radiologist, the traumater, the hematologist must be there, and they must fight face - a card with the coronary. You know they're sleeping - look me in the eye! - on the chair, why are they afraid only of the idea that if they return home, they'll catch up with their child and their husband or wife? What heart do you have? What's your dirt? The House tells you that you said four times that 'they' - they are from the Minutes of the House - 'We need them, the way we find them'. Three articles of the Constitution, 21, 5, 7, say that supreme good is the public good of health, which can overcome when we have forced law, as now. Once do not do and do not apply a law that restricts freedom and democratic rights! Do it for the benefit of the citizens! Overtake there, at that level, with the agreement of all parties! Let your Prime Minister call the four political leaders and ask them directly, see which Member, what party he will say that those who fight life must not be permanentized and are next to the Greek citizen! In conclusion, Mr President, I call on the four thousand and the adjuncts following your reply - which is 'flying the ball in the cradle', 'why didn't you do it?', opposition to the opposition - to wear black bracelets, to mourn a government inappropriate, which cannot, weak and incapable of responding to the historical responsibilities of a people that is plundering, a people facing a face - a card for survival.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u65	Wear four thousand and all of you black bracelet to mourn this incompetent government that cannot respond!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I have said it before, I will not repeat it and I will be very brief, Mr Triantafylides, because you are very upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u68	Am I too much?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u69	I'm upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u70	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u71	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u72	I come from Thessaloniki, I tell you, don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u73	We are there all the time, Mr. Triantafylides, in Thessaloniki and we know what has happened and we fight like all the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u74	Colleague, you've said what you had to say. Calm down now. You're documentary. Good. It's over now. Mr. Secretary, please, there is no dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u75	We're not here for us. We're to transfer what they're telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u76	You're right, Mr. Triantafylides. Everyone does what they think. Please listen to the State Secretary now. You said what you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u77	We know better than you, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u78	I'll tell you, Mr. Blondie who's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u79	And to remind you of the recent statement by your former comrade, Mrs Constantopoulou, about what would happen in the country if SYRIZA ruled with the pandemic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u80	What do you say, man?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u81	Please, Mr. Triantafylides! But please! You have the ability to say what you want. Let the Undersecretary say it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u82	I say what people say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u83	But please, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u84	When you talk, don't you say what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u85	Excuse me, Mr. Triantafylides, have I stopped you from saying what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u86	Good. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u87	No, it's not "end". We're not on a TV show. We're in the House. You spoke in any way you wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u88	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Triantafylides, there's no such thing here, at least me. You spoke and I didn't interrupt you from respect. Just the same way you'll respect me. Colleagues, we move on to the debate on the seventh under number 213/30-11-2020 in the second cycle of SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need for convincing responses to publications that affect the credibility of decisions by a scientific community and a state". Mr. Andreas Blondos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u90	Undersecretary, the issue of the current question is how does the government, the Ministry, respond to "skies" that have been in recent days from non-responsive press releases about the data they are made public, with the databases they operate, with the information that scientists have and the data they have in their hands to properly assess the epidemiological image of the country. We're at a very critical point. There is a tragedy in Greece. Let's not hide. There is a huge burden on the social climate nowadays and especially on the areas with a high epidemiological burden, such as northern Greece. I think the least we need at the moment is to have a climate of doubt and mistrust in society over the elements collected by the state, the state, about the image that scientists have and therefore the correctness of the appropriate measures that they take. I think it's obvious that there's a problem. What comes back and is calling for transparency. This is not an obsession of counterpopulation. It has been proved, Mr. Undersecretary. I was reading at the "VIMA" yesterday a reference to "BLOOMBERG" which says that the ten best world-wide countries in the management of the pandemic are those countries that have chosen a policy of transparency, public access to data and systematic information for citizens and not a policy of coercion. This is a crucial term for having social and political consensuss that are absolutely necessary for public health measures to be effective. So here we have a huge issue. We've been telling you for a while. I am not just saying now about the allocation of recruitment, as you have promised us about a semester now that you will give us the new data on their distribution per public structure. I am talking about other critical daily indicators that need to be presented and not to be silenced, such as, for example, the relationship between cases to the tests carried out. This is a critical link, a critical term. We have asked for precisely which of these tests are carried out in public laboratories and which in the private sector by private payment, what are new imports on a daily basis, what are the new intubations, what is the proportion of the human potential of the health system that is suffering and being put out of battle, how many of them are hospitalized or even imported into intensive ones? I think that this is critical information, such as, of course, crucial information on how CIVID is managed, with what personnel and what specialties, medical and nursing, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u92	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are asking to know how COVID is managed, with what specialties, with what proportions of personnel, medical and nursing, so that we can understand whether safety standards are respected for the patient and we do not have a problem of preventable deaths, namely those that could be avoided.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, your party's attitude to all the topical questions concerning the management of the pandemic, like your topical question today, unfortunately confirm a sad conclusion. While all over the world political forces are fighting the pandemic together, in Greece, opposition is considered an enemy not COVID but the government! Evidence is that so far you have not tabled a realistic proposal. For eleven months now, the opposition has been absent from the attempt of thousands of front-line fighters, and while it finds nothing good for the many successes that everyone recognizes, it is trying to invest micro-partners in the few unfortunate moments that may exist in such an unprecedented process. Often, indeed, your party is devising false facts in order to build a false account against the government. But that is how you zero a national effort, and that is how the image of not the government, but the country, is being tampered with. Mostly you sow the doubt among the citizens at times when they demand unity and strife. This is a mistake because the blind opposition opens the way and blind reactions to the scientific data against the pandemic and brings back, in other words, populism and conspiracy theories from the back door, and unfortunately this time not in the squares, but in our hospitals and homes, public health itself. You know very well that the government and I and the Minister, the entire Ministry of Health and all the relevant bodies, are open to information. We give the House the presence, as well as regular intergroup contacts and regular briefings. All data on the pandemic are published daily in applications available to each citizen. It is unfair to ask us today to answer questions that have already been answered and to oppose the truth not in facts but in myths that are either based on journalistic scenarios or on your ideas. Once again, I would like to make things clear. First, since February, seeing the pandemic approaching, the government has not only slipped but has not hesitated. He immediately established the Special Committee of Experts from internationally recognised scientists, which was extended in the course with more specificities. Its recommendations have been based on government choices since. In fact, I would remind you that these were bold without ever meeting any serious counter-proposal. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I will take time from my dentistry, Mr President. Secondly, from the outset the recording of all epidemiological data is a unique, unique number, a system and is carried out under the responsibility of the National Public Health Agency, as the sources that feed it are many. The data may enter short-term differences, but this in no way changes the result. This result, which is at the disposal of every Greek citizen, is also our guide to our movements, but also the one that the European Health Agency and all the international bodies monitoring the pandemic. Thirdly, you, as an organized political force and you as a doctor and a MP, are coming to the House invoking not some of your unspeakable arguments but publications, some of which, in the meantime, have been revised by younger ones. Journalists, however, must do their job and we must do ours. So let me refer to facts. Have we doubled record time for intensive therapy beds? Yeah, we did. Did we amplify with thousands of doctors and nurses all the health structures? Yeah, we did. Did we ensure adequate personal protective equipment to medicines and health material? Yeah, we did. Do we carry out at least thirty thousand tests every day? Yeah, we do. Do we have an innovative tracking system? Yes, we do. So this is the truth about the situation today, what we have received, what we have built in these last few months, giving battles at the same time - to remind you - on the fronts of Evros and immigration, but also of national challenges, which should make you think, as they all do, what would happen if your own government were called on to manage such simultaneous and difficult crises. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u95	You got all your dentistry, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Xanthos, I'm the last person to deny any problems. However, this pandemic - you recognise - has neither a precedent nor a ready-to-date solution, and it has, of course, occurred at a time when the national health system we received was not at the best. Last week I was in the heart of the pandemic, Pella, Pieria, Halkidiki and Thessaloniki. I spoke with all staff, with doctors, nurses, traumatists, and we did find problems. The reaction, however, was immediate. Clinical and doctors and private scientists were recruited and with government inducement they were directed to hospitals where the situation is marginal. The identification of any problems, however, is something very different from the catastrophe of Antipoliticism, the one that reminds of Mr. Polakis' performance outside the new beds of the "Saving", which were not working and which collapsed within a few minutes, through the testimony of the administration of the hospital, the President of Parliament and of life itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u97	Please, Mr. Undersecretary, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u98	I shall conclude, Mr President. By the way, think of something else, your party silences and whispers teeth when things in the country go well, but it appears hailed as soon as even the smallest misfortune appears. It is a policy which I would describe as a hyena policy, which attacks when there is a difficulty. However, at these moments Greece is not worth such a policy. That is why we will avoid the micro-political cliffs, while remaining firm in what I have said at the outset: our priority is to protect public health, in the service of which all the forces - state and private - are placed - and our aim is to get the vaccine and the pandemic overrun of the pandemic to find the Greek standing and the society united, with an even more modern and effective National Health System and with the economy ready to re-enter orbit recovery and prosperity. I shall therefore close by asking you to make an honest and positive contribution to the joint effort, not with empty slogans, not with the reproduction of fast news, blind complaints or inexpensive auctions, but with realistic evidence and the disposal of consensus. Because I will say it again: there are no enemies and friends in battle with the coronary. The challenge is national and winners we all have to go out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Undersecretary, you have also taken your first speech from the next time question. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Undersecretary, I'm really surprised. I'm surprised, because I didn't expect this guy to come up with the answer. At the time of the crisis, you are talking about hyenas of counterpopulation. It's a disgrace! You have no idea what is happening right now in society, in the health system and in its people. You cannot respond to a universal demand for transparency in this way, say that the opposition seeks death and rubs her hands off when things go bad. We have shown our seriousness and responsibility for months now, in tragic contrast to what you did when you were opposition. We've explained them a thousand times. Leave the numbers now. The question is simple: Is there a question of transparency, yes or no? We are told 'no'. All good burned up, then. For laughter, it's the COVID patient record. The whole scientific community knows. Its figures are incomplete and inadequate. They do not function with the EAFRD databases. The four critical 'crisis', EAEC, Political Protection, Ministry of Health and Committee of Experts do not have systematic communication and coordination. There are documents, correspondence from the Secretary-General of Public Health and the President of the EGE, as if it were a question of parliamentary scrutiny. The Secretary-General of Public Health is addressed to the President of the EGE and says to him: "Explain exactly what you are doing." We ask that the minutes of the Committee of Experts be made public, so that people know what the limit is and what is distinct from science and politics. What have the experts recommended for the critical pandemic rings in the community, for public transport, for the opening up of tourism, for entertainment, for sports activities, for churches, for the outbreaks, for closed structures, for refugee camps, for prisons, for the camps that are taking place at this time? What exactly has happened? What have been recommended and what has the government decided? All European countries have analytical databases and every citizen can be informed of everything and not try to seize some answers through questions from the parliamentary authors. I really don't understand why you don't move on to these moves of transparency. Is it your arrogance and arrogance? Is the risk devaluation? Are they data-based power games? Are they intra-government contours? What exactly is going on, so we can finally understand? You are intolerable both in the public health system and in transparency, but as was demonstrated yesterday and in democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u101	Thank you. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I will once again say that safeguarding public health is unnegotiable for us. I would like to make it clear and stress that all the epidemiological data and data required are at all times and at the disposal of the Committee of Experts. Let me say a word about these members of the committee. Scientists have gathered from all over the scientific community and from the first meeting to date more than a hundred meetings have taken place. For almost ten months practically, the committee shall meet every two days at long teleconferences. For the first time, an instrument of thirty - one scientist has held so many sessions. The members of the committee shall submit their scientific knowledge and opinions not only during the committee but also 24/7 through an exchange of views. It is dangerous to underestimate the validity of this committee with sporadic reports that have another objective - and let me say - and other motives. Members shall be free to speak. Most decisions have been taken unanimously and some of them have been votes and the majority opinion has been followed. On a stable basis - and exceptionally if necessary - members shall be informed by EGE staff as well as scientists from other bodies and associations. You're talking about transparency. Of course, we are in favour of transparency, but let me tell you something, the confidentiality of the committee's practices is the necessary and appropriate treaty for the independence and openness of members, so that they can express themselves freely without having a sense of fear of external pressure. That's what's happening in the courts. The secrecy of the conferences of the courts is the one that ensures their operational independence. Even with the picture presented, our country is in a much better position than the majority of other European countries. You need to recognize that. In no case will we retreat to matters of good information. I repeat that there is a whole application in which each Greek citizen can be informed every day. There are epidemiological reports from the EGE. There are reports, reports of Members' information and whatever is necessary, in order to have the necessary information at our disposal, so that we can make the right decisions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u103	We move on to the debate on the fifth question number 39/10-2020, the cycle of petitions and questions, of the MP Pella of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need for the preparation and implementation of a specific local action plan for the institutional armour and strengthening of P.E. Pellas, which presents in a single day 25% of the country's coronary cases." Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, we do not have a noisy Minister who is prepared to say proud of the fact that we already have more than three thousand deaths from COVID in our country, but certainly less than Belgium. They now rank us into one of the first positions worldwide in terms of losses per million population during this second wave. We have a mathematician who, if I may say so, does not see so much its rigour in terms of definitions and numbers. Mr. Secretary, to have a good question, what exactly do you mean, when you keep talking about successful management? You repeat it often. You did it today a little while ago. You did it the other day on your visit to Pella. Where exactly do you set the bar of your successes? Four thousand dead during this year? The five thousand dead right after the holidays? Imagine what you would say to me when I tabled this question on 5 October, if I had talked to you since about three thousand dead, that is, ten times dead in two months. Of course, you come here today to far lower tons than other colleagues - I have to admit that - but I have to say that, because of a degree in fictitious numbers, you are aware of the factual game of numbers, you are determined to repeat the same lies. What do you mean? That you are successful with three hundred victims and you are equally successful, Mr. Secretary, with more than three thousand victims recorded today. Mr. Undersecretary, of course you only answer to the Prime Minister who appointed you. You are neither accountable to the Greek people nor controlled by the media, because the media in this country do not control anyone and above all terrorize and scare only the numbers of polls and not the number of deaths. I am sure, Mr Secretary-General, that you are no longer prepared to tell me where you are setting the bar of your successes, and most of all now that you are also showing this delayed sensitivity - to say it in that sense. While you are trying to hide the responsibilities of the perpetrator under his face and the mask of the mourning victim, I will tell you how things have been in central Macedonia and Pella, which is supposed to be at the heart of your prolongation, the New Democracy and you have a crown on your head. The scenes I described to you, Mr. Undersecretary, do not come from the future and you know that very well. It is already present in central Macedonia and Pella. We've paid ten times the blood tax, and we're still paying. You are, of course, continuing unreasonable. Instead of excluding us from your successes, instead of saying 'yes, we have achieved something other than northern Greece' - you do not dare say that - what are you doing? Depending on whether you choose the right term. You tell us one thing about the average, the other about the median price. You tell us one thing compared to the previous ones, and you tell us the other as compared to the rest of the world. You say one thing about the regional level, the other at national level. One you tell us about the autumn wave, the next you tell us about the first wave of spring. You basically incorporate creative accounting. You are essentially - if you remember him, which I think you remember him because he is a great star of your prose - 'the Horseman of the pandemic' on the ground. You are a mathematician who falsifies both the elements and the interpretations of the facts, which bring us to our minds the saying that "as prosperous the numbers are miserable".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u105	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u106	Look, because I think in your ministry's diploma with the good and evil, you have chosen to play the second role, and because I think, Mr. Secretary, it is your own uncovered authoritarian commands to the hospital administrations to filtrate effectively and implicitly to the sanitary staff that is boiling, I would invite you to be informed, because you will never be informed by the domestic media, by the 'Spiegel', by the 'New York Times', by the Euro News, by the videos of the 'Reuters' that show the graves of Thermi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u107	Madam Colleague, please. You have your dentistry, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u108	Because if you're expecting to be informed by the domestic media, I think you're not gonna get anything at all, and I think you know it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u111	Madam Colleague, it can't be! You've been talking four and a half minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, you have all shown tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u113	And Mr. Blonde in four minutes I gave you tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u114	I haven't asked him yet, Mr. President! What's he gonna answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u115	That's your business. The question is a question. If you wanted to say all this stuff...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u116	I would like to finish, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u117	Please ask the question. Just the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u118	I would therefore like you to tell the National Representation of the regional and legal data of the victims, of the losses and not only of the cases mentioned to us every night, to report to us the percentage of patients who ended up outside the ICM, the recent mortality of the ICMs per region, the exact number of stays for hospitalisation in ICMs per week and per region, how many ICM beds you opened since July and then in Pella - and I mention it because it is a point of reference for your inability and the most affected at the moment of the country - and which specialists you have recruited.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u120	And also tell us about the daily prognostic of the EGE, of September, when you posted it on the EGE website and then downloaded it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u121	Mrs. Jackrey, you've been in six minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u122	From October onwards... (Noise)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u123	Mrs. Jackrey, please, you've been in six minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u124	Tell us about the results...(It doesn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Jackrey, you've reached six minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u126	And for the victims of Thessaloniki who then showed that the COVID free Thessaloniki is a... (It doesn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Jackie, please! Please! No, you're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u128	...military, volunteers from other hospitals you hired and don't dare...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u129	Mrs. Jackie, you're done. You don't sound. You don't sound!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u130	...(Don't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u131	Mrs. Jackie, please! You've reached six and a half minutes! Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I'm obviously not going to answer what Mrs. Jackrey says, because she's off the question. It's a question for itself. Ask us a question, answer it. But let me tell you something, Mrs. Jackie. So many memorials you have voted and so many parties you've changed, an ITH in Pella you didn't make! As far as your question is concerned: we have said and recognized it, we all know that northern Greece has been under pressure and, in particular, the Pella Regional Unit. What are you saying that we do not know and that we do not know the situation there? We know the great pressure in both the hospital and the number of cases and the spread of these in the community. As you quite rightly said, measures have been announced since the beginning of October and, unfortunately, they have not been blocked to the extent that we expected the pandemic to be played, which is clearly due to the large spread of cases in the wider region. From the first moment, however, the National Public Health Agency has attempted in the municipalities and regions of the Regional Unit of Pella. For example - and I hope we have the opportunity to answer another question, because you have asked me a number of questions - that five mobile groups have taken four thousand samples of production units, health structures, prosperous structures and public structures, such as the Almopia Municipal School and the Town Hall in Ardea. No, that's not in Pella. It is, however, the number of mobile groups. At the same time, traces were carried out in too many cases and since the beginning of the pandemic, EOH are present in all areas, which have strings or have an increased trend of COVID cases -19 and, in collaboration with local bodies, supports the effort to mitigate the disease. We have visited and visited not only the Pella Prefecture but all the regions of northern Greece, so that we can implement a special local plan for the armouring, protection of the health of workers in the hospital and of course the protection of the population, recognizing the great epidemic burden the region has. And to repeat once again that the special steps of the EGE attempt in the prefecture and perform free detection samples, so that on the one hand we can ensure the maximum number of samples and, of course, have the results that will help us to have the real epidemiological picture of the region, so that we can prevent the hardness of the wave that has hit the Pella Law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u133	Thank you. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u134	Minister, the way you have answered my question, I think it is perfectly justified to justify the criticism I have made in my prototype, because you appear completely unrepentant. If you recognized the children's mistakes you made in northern Greece and in the Pella Regional Unit, which you didn't even have on your map until last week, you would have no problem recognising that both in central Macedonia and in Pella are currently carrying out a health and humanitarian disaster and you have to deal with it in a similar way. Mr. Secretary, if you calculate that we have around a periphery a hundred, on average, confirmed COVID cases and if you calculate that there are double and three times the cases of asymptomatic or unsymptoms that do not resort to the hospital and if you take the dozens of deaths into account, you realize that you have converted Pella and Central Macedonia into a local herd immunity experiment. And I am not only talking about the tragic delays and the cowardly steps you have taken and the use of military infrastructure and the use of the private sector. You haven't even dictated the private sector to Northern Greece, Mr. Undersecretary. Even Mr. Sarafian forsakes you. For the complete non-use of volunteering, I will tell you the simple incident that demonstrates your apathy and monumental analgesia as far as the citizens of northern Greece are concerned. You didn't even do what you said before, which is self-evident, what? Globally free reliable tests throughout the population. Increased cases have been recorded in Pella since summer. A day two hundred incidents were recorded in one industry and the next two and three. What do you want to tell us, Undersecretary? You were trying to hide the problem under the carpet, not block the development of the pandemic in Pella, so you wouldn't spoil your image. You didn't ask for help from anyone. Not to say, of course, that you humiliated, in your view, money for the ICUs, that in practice in the tourist season you were budgeting the sacrifice of lives consciously for the foreshadowed gains...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u135	Who said we dropped the money?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u136	You were talking about it. Mr. Pechas said it. He said it's the money for the IFs in the summer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u137	Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u138	I'd like you to see it. Even the press writes it. You systematically lie, you use two meters and two weights, you ruthlessly worked on the tragedy, in order to obtain political benefits and accuse the Civic Opposition that gave you the help hand in the first phase. And you know what this is, Mr. Undersecretary? It's like being on the edge of the cliff, giving you someone's hand, and you kick it. This is your stand against Civic Anti-Civilization. You're so miserable. And now hide with cowardice behind the committees, being able to tear down even your own account that you supposedly followed the mandates of the Committee on Infectiouss. And what did Mr. Zakynthian say the other day when he resigned? He resigned because instead of recommending the members of the political committees to the government, you used it to legitimise your own policies and choices. You're not just a loser, Mr. Undersecretary, you're completely immoral! So there is absolutely no value in the quality information you mentioned, which was not very serious. Even a health - care employee, just thirty - seven years old, who died practically helpless out of the ICU, was enough for anyone who has a little bit of honor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] My compatriot, Mr. Undersecretary, who was from Edessa and died the day before, trying to help other people, asks today in this Chamber and not me. So take good care of your answers. Mr. Secretary, when in an area - to have a good question - such a patient in the health field is supposed to not find a position in an ID, then who finds? It's well known that in my area four out of five dying, dying out of the ICM, Mr. Undersecretary. I directly ask how this fifth is to be chosen. When my compatriot, thirty-seven years old, the most sustainable case, stayed out, who comes in? Who decides this, Mr. Secretary, and on what basis? I want you to tell me. What instructions have you given? Inform the National Representation immediately because you confess that you have double books on it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u140	Do not attempt, Mr. Undersecretary, to turn it to the scientists you trust. Absolutely no doctor seeks such therapeutic privileges. Nothing else, clear forecasts and procedures guarantee health risks to vagueness and opacity and of course defend citizens' confidence in the ERC.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u141	But, my colleague, how long do you need to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u142	Now reveal the selection criteria to which you make and do not lure everything into your curse.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Jackrey, you're in confusion and ignorance, and I'm really sorry that you're coming here and saying that the government has ordered us to stay our fellow citizens outside the ICU. Fortunately we doubled - and even more - the intensive care units in the country, and this is collected by our fellow citizens. Fortunately, we didn't build intensive treatment units with mustamads, like the projects you did when you were government! And I'm sorry that you're talking about deaths and you're smuggling into the pandemic, and you're saying what the government's target is on deaths, so that it's a success for the management of the pandemic. Our goal is more credit than hospitals, from beds, credit cards from intensive care units, best care for all citizens in need. We haven't left any of our fellow citizens behind, nor will we. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u145	We continue with the fifth under the number 212/30-11-2020 topical question of the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP B2' West Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Dimitrios Vitsa to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Provoking the silence of the Government in the matter of workers of the Greek Shipyards S.A. (GENA)’. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. I submit to the Minutes three documents. First, the Communication 2019/C 247/01 of the European Commission on the recovery of unlawful and incompatible State aid. Furthermore, the decision of the Monomele of the Athens Court of First Instance to subject HSY to the special management procedure of Law No.4307/2014 and the invitation to carry out an independent auction for the divestment of a single operational set of assets of HSY. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Vitsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, three months ago the Prime Minister said for word - it is a transcript from the Prime Minister's speech at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition - the following: "Scaramaga Shipyards are entering a strategic investor with job security". I want to ask you directly this. Mr. Mitsotakis was always lying? For there is no other explanation, since it is clear that what the Prime Minister said at the IGC is not done, but rather that there is no provision for the workers in particular. When SYRIZA took over the government, four and a half years from the hundreds of independent Greece and the hundreds of eighty where there is a relatively elected government - I am not talking about the last forty, I say for the 19th century - the shipyards were abandoned. The submarine program was emptied, and the workers were unpaid for over two years. And then in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy and Development, we managed to bring the shipyards back to life. Submarines delivered. Workers get 65% of their earnings from the Navy and with full rights to claim their jobs, but also to have their working future secured. The former rolling stock workers are recruited with fixed-term contracts at Salamis Shipyard. So you guys catch the thread from that moment and you have to do - you'd say - the contest procedure. I would remind you that we have also had two judicial successes, the trial at the International Diet Court with satisfactory results and the trial, which I mentioned earlier, where the Scaramaga Shipyards are being managed. I hope you don't deny these things. Now we're going to the right questions, beyond the question I asked you. First question: is the assets being sold? Is the workers in active or passive? It is an answer you would say that it is about the international economy, about the economic theory, if the work - I mean - is active or passive. Second question: We know that you are making this contest and now you are making a competition concerning the brand name and the name of the shipyard - not now, in the next period. With the other area that concerns the tank number 5 and the area that is currently the refugee camp and which is currently owned and after the exchanges with the EBRD, what are you going to do? Let's know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u147	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u148	I'll be done in a minute. Thirdly and last of all, what will happen with the workers, after this process has been completed and since either Mr Pronovos or Mr Xenokostas take the yards? There's nothing in the contest. And what about the about 120 million people currently owed by HSY to workers? There's nothing going on here either. In my dentistry, I have to tell you, to 'warrant you', that I will make specific proposals for what you can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Vitsa. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, Mr Vice President, you said that we're catching the thread from where you left it. That's true. So, basically, there is no reference to your question that we are acting without guaranteeing the public interest. Because if we did that, you didn't guarantee it either. So it is contradictory what you say about the content of your question. Secondly, I hope that the competition for the military arm of HSY, which was published on 9 October and was extended by an amendment we discussed here in Parliament until 11 December, that is, on Friday, so that in the middle of a pandemic, the potential investors can be given time. We don't know them. At least I don't know them. You referred to two. Why shouldn't they be more? I wish there were many more people, and that was the objective of an extension. I will therefore repeat that I wish the competition would go well. It is also crucial for the maintenance of jobs. I will repeat that it is a commitment and a strategic choice of the government to reorganise the defence and shipbuilding industry and to armor through this national defence. And I know very well that you have a special interest in that. So we seek the Scaramaga Shipyards to become a strategic business for our country. For this last period of time, you know very well that together with the special management of the Ministry of Finance we have done a great deal at legislative and administrative level for the competition to succeed. You're right, you're saying HSY's competition is one piece. Indeed, as far as EBRD is concerned, we have now entered the final straight ahead for the publication of the tender for its assets in Skaramaga Shipyards, following the completion of the EBRD and HSY exchange of land and the launching of its implementation procedures. In particular, it is a real estate of about thirty-three acres, including a pool of five hundred thousand tonnes of capacity. At the Legislative initiative of the Ministry of Finance and with the cooperation of the parties involved on the basis of estimates, HSY acquired an area of old hayalus and thus access to the new hayalus and marine space, and the EBRD acquired the necessary vital space to improve its ownership for the benefit of the public interest and the orderly functioning of the largest Mediterranean tank. The two-pollution tenders, HSY and EBRD, are estimated - and we expect - to show a strategic investor who will, on the one hand, restructure the shipyards and, on the other, create the production capacity needed to support commercial and military work. Obviously, the success of this complex project is also linked to the maintenance of jobs. As you may know, however, finding a solution for workers requires parallel harmonisation with EU state aid law and compliance with the conditions and criteria to ensure that there is no economic continuity. I will not repeat the texts you have given. Indeed, the story started in 2008, we went in 2010, we went to 2018, a fine was imposed, a penalty was imposed on it. The fine has already begun and has to be paid. There is evidence of the Athens Court of First Instance. You filed it very correctly. Under the scheme - this is the substance - the total assets of the undertaking should be sold in open public tenders on strict terms. Thus, after the sale process of the commercial part has been completed, the tender for the sale of the assets of the military arm of HSY is completed. After the conclusion of the tender, a notice of the creditors will be followed in order for the European Union to consider that the recovery has been carried out. As set out in the 2019 European Commission Communication - I believe that it has been tabled - the lack of economic continuity between the aid recipient and the new owner of the company's assets must be ensured in order to put a final stop to the fine and avoid any obligation to recover the amount of State aid. Mr President, I should like to close by saying this: as has been pointed out in previous times, the law allows the transfer of assets, rights, claims, the company's goods with a view to the resolution of HSY by means of the forced sale of assets, and then the satisfaction of creditors through the auction. The employment contracts are not the subject of the transfer of the assets under the provisions of the existing law and are therefore not transferred to the new investor on a fair basis. On the other hand, contracts of employment, according to the letter of the Deputy Minister for Development on your own days to the European Competition Commission, belong to the company's liabilities, since they mainly result in obligations for the company under special management and cannot therefore be subject to a transfer clause in the new company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. The floor is raised by Vice-President Vits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u152	Now, look, we're being watched by the Scaramaga Shipwreck workers. Do you think now, after the answer you gave, they know what will happen, what will their future be after the competition? What did you tell us about? What you know anyway, that the payroll account is in the pass of an operation. That doesn't mean that the employees are also in the company's liabilities. What are you talking about? Secondly, the economic continuity of a company - which requires that this does not exist - is just the workers. Isn't everyone else financial all the time? Financially, I understand that it's the transfer of shares. That's why we did what we did and what you know. And it's the transfer of the name. And so says Commercial Law, what do we do now? You come here telling us things that remind me of the Indian in the "The Dead" project - if you haven't seen it, see it - whose name means "the man who said a lot, without answering anything". That's not right. So I'm telling you, we've heard what's going to happen with the tank number five. And I remind you that by your law it had been passed to the shipyard. But since you are thus legislating, you did not understand that you are not legislating correctly and now you are taking her to it. Secondly, you make a narrative that appears - hear what you said - that in 2018 was fined in Greece. That's not right. The fine in Greece entered the government of Samara. But I come to something else because I think we need to have a serious debate. What's my opinion? To withdraw immediately the current tender for a ‘x’ period, not too long and to commit investors to two things. One is the viability of the industrial unit and the second is the employment future of the workers. Let me do it more. Once in Scaramaga Shipyards were five and a half thousand workers. Now they're less than eight hundred. The one who gets it, what's he gonna do? Is he gonna keep these people? Is he going to make new contracts? What exactly will he do? So you need to ask him. Secondly, there are the arguments of the workers. The workers' arguments say that - and this is always the case in France - you also know that - public participation with 10%, with 20%, in the new shipyard operator. He's making sure of them. He's making sure other things are done. Because if you go to give the Navy direct assignments, we'll have other problems, I don't want to get into this. Thirdly, to bring the government to bear in this period - I understand that it is not until Friday - a regulation which says: we have a debt of 115 million, 120 million to the workers. We'll pay them back that way. I'm not suggesting what I'm going to tell you, but there are techniques. You say - I know - that from 115 million so much will be repaid in 2021, so many millions will be repaid in 2022 and we're done. People get their money. These are, in the opinion, very specific proposals which resolve all three issues, namely the business plan and the working future and how the workers will get their money back. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the First Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] And from there on, I hope you will do so - an extension of the submarine programme which expires on 31 December. And if you don't bring it, then until these procedures are completed, people will be unpaid, in fact fired. Let me only 15 seconds, Mr President. There is a problem with regard to industrial policy in relation to the shipyards. I don't know how much he's interested in shipbuilding policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u154	I'll be right over. Five ministries are involved in shipyard issues. So I say to you, set up a General Secretariat for Shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Vitsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u156	Now we're wasting time telling me "please" while I'm getting done. Create a General Secretariat that combines all this. And...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Comrade, please. You've spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u158	Yeah, okay, I get it. In the twelfth minute and tenth seconds, to say, unify and codify all the legislation on shipyards and industrial policy. Because we say that we are a maritime country, we have the largest shipyard and the largest tank in which it can enter, if the bay goes out in front of the shipyards and even airships.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u159	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u160	We too have managed for various reasons to have them in this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u161	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, I must admit that I am a little surprised that what you say is not in your question and does not express SYRIZA. I'm explaining. First of all, you are expressing opinions that you did not support them either as a government in the past. I have here the letter from 6-9-2018 by Mr Pitsirla to Mrs Westager, nothing to do with what you have developed today. That's why you rightly said in your prototype that we got the thread and we're going to finish a procedure rationally. Today you are changing what you have been supporting as government. Secondly, I will repeat it, you have not been placed. You say, I will use a very mild word, 'without guaranteeing' the public interest. We ensure the public interest after following the procedure we have found from the special liquidation by you. Thirdly, what are you talking about in here? SYRIZA has demanded that the competition be cancelled and reopened by the government. Can you get me SYRIZA's official announcement? The head of finance has not made such an announcement. Can you tell me? Because you said your personal point of view to be cancelled. Here you say that SYRIZA... You can tell me SYRIZA's position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u163	Will you give me any answers, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u164	Please, as I have not said, how you will be expressed, and I am speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u165	I make suggestions and you tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u166	You're saying SYRIZA has demanded...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u167	The Maritime Department has issued specific proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u168	You say that SYRIZA has demanded that the contest be cancelled and reopened, and I tell you directly that there is no such announcement. So you say more here and you say more orally. On November 29, 2020, the newspaper "DOCUMENTO" writes: "New Scaramaga Shipwrecks from 2021 with the competition taking place. A new start shall be made with the competition." As you understood, you are probably left alone in both the party and outside of the party with these views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u169	What about the workers? You should intervene, Mr President. The questions are specific, and the Minister says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u170	Please. I can't force anyone or you, the minister's answer. The Minister knows and will answer the way he knows. I won't force anyone. You've been Minister for some time. Please have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u171	As you can see, so far I have invoked points of your question, so how do I not answer? It's your question. I'm using your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u172	Can you read my questions, please? Three questions are...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u173	I would ask that none of this should be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u174	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u175	You know very well that I have incredible patience to listen to you as much as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u176	This isn't just you and Mr. Vitch. There's a process here. We've got to get this over with. It's still nineteen questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u177	Because I have to point out your contradictions between written and oral texts, between your positions and the position of your party, I do. The success of the tender is the best way to ensure the company’s viability, to reconstitute the industry and thus to maintain existing jobs and create new ones. In the second part of your question - in the first answer - it is noted that the public limited liability company is under bankruptcy and therefore employment issues with its staff are governed exclusively by the provisions governing the bankruptcy of public limited liability companies. In any event, it is stressed that since no decision of the Supreme Civil Court has been taken in this respect, HSY is not linked to these workers as an employer. At the same time, you are aware that part of the due requirements of the employees - accrued and indemnities - which relate to the period prior to the position of HSY in a special management will be met by the liquidation product of the special management through its classification in the list of creditors. I answered that, too. And along with the measures taken to preserve jobs in Scaramaga Shipyards under a new property regime are being examined with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the fast-track Ministry, alternatives, such as the implementation of training and resettlement programmes for workers and the facilitation of pensions for those who are very close to the pension thresholds. I also answered your question. If you wish, wish that the competition succeeds on Friday in the interests of the workers and the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u178	The Standing Committee on Civil Service Administration presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection "Confidentiality Regulations, Provisions on the Social Welfare Fund for Security Services and other provisions on the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection". The fifth will now be discussed under number 199/25-11-2020 in the first cycle of the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sofia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Definition of an Integrated Development Area of Water Culture (POAY) in the Municipality of Xeromeros Itolokarnania'. Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, Minister, there is a decision of the City Council of the Municipality of Xeromeros Iotolakarnania on the establishment and establishment of an Organised Rural Development Area (OHA). It's number 87, 17-8-2020. The Municipal Council fully opposes the establishment of PDOs in its area, contrary to the establishment of new farms, as well as to the extension of existing ones. The institutional planning of the municipality promotes the coastal zone of Astakos, Myticas, Marathaki and Kalamos as an area of natural beauty. The decision of the Municipal Council, Minister, to stop the establishment of the environmental integrated development of water-growing islands and Ioannina, in order to protect the marine environment and tourism - you know, I mention all that up to now - to transfer the existing units to areas without tourist interest and to shield the municipality and the area by drawing up a local spatial planning plan. But there's something else. The legislative framework in force does not allow the PDOs of Equinean Islands and Eotolokarnania in the region concerned. I am referring to Decision 31722/4-11-2011 (VAT B 2505/4-11-2011) setting out the specific framework for spatial planning and sustainable development for aquaculture. In this context, therefore, there are two areas of aquaculture: one in the southern Echinades with three areas, which has been implemented, and one in the central and northern Ehinades, which are again with three areas, but which have not been implemented. Today, however, we see an Echinada Islands and Eitolokarnania region being promoted with ten zones, including the coastal part of Eitolokarnania. However, this part of the A3 area referred to is not included in the institutionalised specific framework. I must also say that on this subject I had also tabled a protocol number 2777/16-9-2020, which unfortunately did not receive any response. So the question, Mr Minister, is: What are the government's intentions to lead the establishment of a PDO in the area of Xeromeros Aitolakannia in the coastal zone? We have both the legal and the essential facts. We also have the expressed opposition of the local society to decide. And I would like to ask you, Minister, whether the government will nevertheless insist on its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u180	Thank you for the time, Madam President. Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to start with an introduction to aquaculture, what is this issue that we are discussing? Aquaculture is an area in which Greece has a great comparative advantage. By about 2010 there were increasing investments and then it was decided and finally adopted in 2011 the specific spatial framework for aquaculture, precisely because there was significant investment interest in getting a class in the locations of this activity, not to do anything anyone wants to do. This specific spatial framework of 2011 passed by consultation, passed by the National Spatial Planning Council, consulted all actors and, of course, had a strategic environmental impact study, which was again its own, separate consultation on the strategic study in 2011. Within the text of the specific spatial planning is explicitly and clearly provided for and the area of Echinades, which you mentioned to me, as the area of placement of water farms. I don't understand why you guys told me there was a south and a north. Behold, it's this part of the west coast of Atolokarnania. I don't know if you're seeing it from a distance. Looks like it's a black one. You can see it in person too, if you want. Anyway, it's published, it's nothing weird. This entire section is characterized as an area for the development of aquaculture and type I, that is to say, from the areas of particular importance and appropriateness to this activity. Also, on the basis of the same spatial planning procedure, the procedure envisaged is, since the spatial planning process puts such areas throughout Greece, within these areas, the PDOs you mentioned must be created, namely areas of organised development of water farms. These are narrower belts in which the units enter. To make these PDOs, there is a procedure again from the Special Spatial Planning. We started from 2011, then, and we asked all companies to follow this process. There were about thirty and thirty-five specific applications and not even one year ago until a year and a half ago. In other words, for about eight to nine years, we had been unable to approve one of these applications, even though these applications existed. A consequence of the non-approval of PDOs was that many plants collapsed, that much of this activity went to Turkey, where there are no rules. We have lost a very large part of the world market for an activity that for Greece has a great comparative advantage and all because we have not been able to go to aquaculture. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] May I have a minute now or may I continue then, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u182	Keep going for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u183	Thank you. I would also remind you that aquaculture is not tourism and I remind the House last week. We are talking about a new development model, which is not just based on clay tourism, etc., but every time an activity comes, which is not tourism, everyone is being raised and, above all, local players, so that this activity does not settle in their region. Let's go somewhere else where you like, but not here. With 'no' here, however, we are not going anywhere. So if we want to develop an economy that does not only have tourism, because it is good tourism, but it cannot be monoculture, we must also have industry, aquaculture, we must have logistics, these things, these activities must go somewhere. There is therefore a specific procedure. National planning since 2011 and compulsoryly organised location. From there on, the objections that exist could only be in relation to the specific procedure followed in this WEU, that is, whether something went wrong. It could be... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall then proceed with this, Mr President, so that I do not take any more time now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u184	Thank you. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, I would like to ask you a minute, perhaps a little more, and I apologise if I may delay you. First of all, Mr Minister, you referred to a procedure in relation to the 2011 landfill, which came out of a CFD, as I remember very well, on the eve of Mr Papandreou's resignation, and it was this decision in breach of the 2014/1989 Community directive, whereby the country committed itself by 2021 to prepare a maritime landfill, which he has not done. There was a study by BSE, which you well know was a group of entrepreneurs who are interested in this entrepreneurship. No consultation took place in 2019. Apparently, the city doesn't know if he got or didn't get any updates from you. Well, she never answered that. In any case, there have been all the things you mentioned before and there have been some more, which I would say, excessively, areas in such a region. But, Minister, I have to say that I am honestly wondering why you did not mention in your speech that you have a previous personal involvement as a scholar, as a group responsible for the environmental impact study on this previous placement? I don't think that's bad. But that means that you also have more full knowledge of this subject and I sincerely want to believe that this fact does not affect the development of the whole case. Unfortunately, Mr Secretary-General, we are once again in the face of the well-known pattern of service of specific interests, to which I referred earlier, of economic interests, which you are allegedly baptizing as development planning. We must accept that both existing laws and local societies are always wrong: the laws, because they have not provided the right conditions for local societies, because they are reactionary always and cannot understand their real interest! That's what we always say in this Chamber. This is where the implementation of a plan to overthrow the current specific framework is being promoted. It also overthrows the city’s development planning, as well as the spatial planning of the Region of Western Greece. Why, Minister, are the designs being cancelled, but also the institutions which have prepared them and established them? It promotes the implementation of a plan which ignores and the implications for local society. Tourist farms in the region will simply be destroyed. We are not talking, of course, about the large installations to which you have referred, where they exist, but also about which you are respecting and protecting them. Unfortunately, however, it turns out that you refuse to take account of those small units that yield income - you will allow me to say - survival to their owners. So there is another question about the impact on the local economy. The maximisation of the expansion of the aquaculture industry will not result in the destruction of each farm in a competent territorial radius of distance from their land? Let us not talk about the immediate negative effects on fisheries. I wonder what is on the other side of the balance, in order not to take account of the ecological impact or the conditions of survival - I stress, Minister, the word'survival' - of the local population. Unfortunately, it is well known that the environmental effects of the aquaculture in Echinades and Agios Panteleimon are well known. However, I would ask that we do not stand by the false argument of new jobs. One side is that no one should be proud of the fact that he is performing the local economy as an achievement that those who will be deprived of the resources of their incomes will necessarily resort to work in aquaculture, because here I have a letter from the Labour Union of NETHERA, who are wondering about jobs, are talking about the two-month contracts that they hold in business colleagues, about incomplete staff, about the nature of work and its over-intensiveness, which results in workers being overcrowded, about the absence of an operational contract, about the work of the departments. They also wonder whether there is a legal commitment to the identification of workers. I shall put that before you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They will therefore necessarily resort to work in aquaculture, without any specific provision or commitment to their employment. [[At this point, the ending bell of Mrs H' Vice-President of Parliament's speaking time is ringing.]] On the other hand, it is well known to everyone that the situation of industrial relations in this sector is totally problematic, as I said before, and that expression is very diligent, Mr Secretary-General. The two-month work contracts, the incomplete staff who are forced to exhaust their capabilities, are only some of the aspects of reality. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you. In any case, Mr Secretary, I believe that the government should not confirm the most negative forecasts on this matter too. You have an obligation and the government has an obligation to rethink the issue and to overthrow the implementation of the destructive new project in this region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, you have said several inaccuracies, obviously, not intentionally. I will mention them one - a very brief one. You said that the placement of water farms is linked to maritime planning. They're not connected. One more, the other one. I know something. When marine spatial planning plans are to be made, they also incorporate aquaculture. It doesn't mean that it's above aquaculture and they're doing something opposite. On the other hand, I would remind you that maritime spatial planning projects are regional projects, the specific spatial planning is a national level and they are overrepresented and regional planning is in line with this. In any case, maritime spatial planning is a matter that will take account of aquaculture. It does not mean that until then we will not have aquaculture. Alas. Second inaccuracy. You said that in a large radius, if I understood correctly, around the land segment of the aquaculture units cannot be carried out agricultural activity or something. That's incomprehensible. The terrestrial part of the units is minimal, something very small and does not affect at all what is going on further. Why can't he? I don't understand that. The land piece is a very small facility. Why cannot rural activities be carried out in the rest of the region? Thirdly, you said that the design was overturned. No design is reversed. The planning, on the contrary, provides for them. The design is the specific spatial framework for aquaculture. It is the regional spatial framework for aquaculture, which also provides for the specific aquaculture area, and there is also a local planning that does not say anything opposite. Let's go to this activity now. I had wondered whether I should say it first or say it in my dentistry that I had also participated in this activity in 2015. I did it for a test. I would say that, of course, it's not a secret, nor is it something I'm ashamed of. I'd be embarrassed if I was useless. I'm not ashamed because I've dealt with all kinds of spatial planning and town planning. So I was involved in 2015. This operation has now, in this particular case now, made this application that I told you in 2015. I had dealt with many other scholars. In 2015 the application was made, in 2018 the Spatial Planning Directorate, i.e. the agency that I am in charge of now - but then I was not - completed the processing of the spatial planning section of this application. In aquaculture three different services are involved, the planning services of the RIS, the environment services of the RIS, where I am not the head of the Ministry of Rural Development. In 2018, therefore, the Ministry of the Environment completed the spatial processing and was sent to both the Ministry of Rural Development and the Department of Environmental Licensing, for further processing. From us, that is, it was gone a year and a half before I went to this ministry, and since then I haven't been involved in this process. He's gone from us. What happened next? On 2 February 2019, the Environmental Licensing Directorate took a strategic environmental impact study into consultation, because there is such a one-off environmental impact study. So all this became 'by the book', just with great delays - according to the Greek custom - but 'by the book'. This investment didn't trip anywhere, nor did anything illegal or anything irregular. The strategic environmental impact assessment has also been consulted. There was no reaction from the municipality. However, everyone else who had to give their opinion, gave an opinion and no one said anything negative. So the process goes on now: this address is being prepared, with which - I repeat - I have nothing to do with it, to carry out the final evaluation of the consultation. If you see the consultation - because it's public, it's no secret - it was positive, it's positive, it's positive, and the municipality didn't say a word. The fact that in a process that is completely legitimate is dragging an investment for five, six years and suddenly the municipality wakes up and tells us false arguments, such as overthrows local planning - it does not in any way overthrow him - that we must stop this process of the legitimate placement of the investment, because it does not like the municipality, that is absurd. Of course local societies and regional and national authorities have a say in these things, but in a coordinate way and at a certain stage. We cannot all, when we remember, suddenly say "a, I had not received any news", for something that all of Greece has heard and suddenly asks us to stop a process for which there is not even an administrative way. How are we going to stop this process today? They're on their way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u188	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u189	So we can't do anything, and it's quite legitimate what has been done so far. You will allow me a minute, Mr President, because that is important. There's another story that's been going on lately. I won't mention the name unless you ask me. I told the local authorities about the same things I am saying to you, firstly, that I cannot stop it, firstly because I am not competent and, secondly, because there is no administrative way of stopping something that is being done legally and I was told: Firstly, that the special spatial planning 2011 was a transaction product - which, I don't know, it may have been, it may not have been, I can't know - but, in any case, to use one such argument, I have to have some presumptions, not because someone tells me. If it was a transaction product, they should have or even now come some evidence to be judged. Because, however, someone says that on their own, without proving anything, it does not mean that this particular design transaction product does. Then what everyone says is true. Secondly, I was told, on the other hand, that there were false attestations in the file. I asked them to bring me the false assurances, because then I'll have some way to stop it. Indeed, if there's anything false in the file, you can stop. Then there's a tool. They have not brought me anything in this particular case, however, which we are talking about, they have brought me nothing. So what else can we do? It's another process, it's dragged and it's progressing properly. Thank you very much and apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u190	Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor for a word. The Undersecretary won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u191	I don't want the Undersecretary to answer me. First of all, Mr. Undersecretary, I didn't ask you for that. I barely said, on the contrary, that it's not bad. Before you became a State Secretary, you existed somewhere you worked. That's for granted. What I want to say, though, is that they say: Since 2018, when the information was supposed to have gone to the municipality - the municipality was never informed - in 2019, when they started and understood what had been done, they entered the process. Here they say that twenty-six thousand square meters, the proposed PDO, which consists of ten zones...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u192	Mrs. Sacorafa...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u193	I am informing the Secretary-General, Mr President, whether or not he will help the situation. It affects a very large area and the squares of thirty - five become four hundred fifty. If it doesn't destroy the area, what is it destroying then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Undersecretary, I don't think it's necessary. Answers were given. There was...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u195	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u196	You are right, but the Vice-Presidents are always overrun, Mr Barcas. We must recommend to you, Vice President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u197	You've only done it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u198	I was overreacting. That's a reality and I'm saying it. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u199	We should be happy to discuss this more specifically. There's no way what they're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u200	Thank you. We continue with the fourth with number 838/21-10-20 question, of the cycle of petitions and questions, of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Application of new objective values in the calculation of the special arbitrary fine'. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, we have a specific issue. The calculation of the fine other than squares shall also include the assessment on the basis of the objective values. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. The 2016 Act provides for the adjustment of fines by Ministerial Decisions. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The question, then, is specific: Fine which will be calculated after 2017 and which is in a period when objective values have changed, should it not be calculated with new objectives? Because the Ministry of the Environment has not adapted the new objectives in force, in which areas have subsequently been in existence, in order to make it possible for the citizen to assess his fine at the same time on the basis of the new objectives and to proceed with his payment. That's the question. It's specific. I don't want to delay anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u203	Look, the question seems reasonable. It doesn't seem absurd. It has two sides, one legal and one real one. The legal aspect is as follows: the adjustment of the objective values which are made every so long as values change. As the market changes, values change. The adjustment relates to taxes, charges and fines, in particular, taxes and charges, which are levied per year. In so far as they are imposed each year, they must be applied on the basis of the data of the year in which they are imposed. The market changes, the values change, the fees change. In the case of arbitrary fines, however, we do not have the same situation. It's completely different. The arbitrary fines were imposed at a certain time, with the data of that time when the objective values were of 2016. So they said that those who have arbitrarily done so far should pay fines on the basis of this price. It's not something that's changing. We are not talking about new arbitrary payments made in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and these should provide for fines based on the current objective value. The fines are a photograph of the moment in which the fines were set. Think of something else. Apart from the fact that there is a legal aspect and a clear opinion from the Legal Board of the State, which has made it clear that we cannot change the basis for calculating the fines, there is also a practical issue. If we changed them, it would mean that for the same kind of arbitrariness in the same area, some would pay less and more, just because in time later the arbitrary took place, values changed. That would be unreasonable and unfair. Therefore, although it seems reasonable at first sight, as I said, I repeat that it is not, in fact, legally correct or reasonably correct. It is about a specific situation. It was appreciated that way. Whenever arbitrary people decide to pay the fine, they will pay it on the basis of that data. They cannot choose the time when they will pay the fine to pay it whenever it suits them, whenever the cheapest values are cheaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Undersecretary, there's the other side. We have in the administration the principle of leniency, which is a basic principle. The citizen is treated by the administration on the basis of the most urgent provision. I'll say it very simply, because it's not exactly like that. It's a whole theory, a whole start. If the reduction from one year to another was at 50%, it does not mean that it is only a change in the market, but it is also a mistaken estimate of the previous year. When, from 2016 onwards in 2017, we have ten municipalities in which objective values have great differences, this does not mean that within that year the change was made, but that perhaps the previous year there was no objective definition of the objective value, which can be derived from various factors, but within one year it could have a huge difference of ten municipalities in the country or only four or thirty of the three hundred municipalities. In this sense, I think that the system should, of course, take into account, because it does not say "with the ministerial decision of 2016", but it says "with the calculation system of 2016". The 2016 calculation system says every year for adjustment. You need to change the law and say "with the ministerial decision of 2016", so that you do not take into account changes. In other words, I think that even as the law is formulated, it is not right and is in line with the law which is going on. Another identification system and another one is the objective. Article 100 talks about the calculation of the single special fine on the basis of the objective values and the system applicable to the law of 2016. I therefore believe that this treatment should be carried out at the Ministry and whether many municipalities in the country have actually been reduced and for those who have been calculated with higher objective - why not? - there's a correction. If, in other words, values fell sharply to 10% theoretically, would you still have the high fines at that time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u206	For those who've grown up?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u207	So for those who have been imposed with high in 2016, that's exactly what I'm saying, they have set 100 doses. The last instalments are to be deducted from the above amounts. If the price of the property has been humiliated, where and how far will the fine stay the same? When the fine imposed on a property such as HOPI - which is reduced, because it reduces the value of the property - the fine that goes with the property does not go separately. It cannot, in a property of EUR 100,000, impose a fine of EUR 50,000, and at some point the property will go down to EUR 50,000 and be the fine itself. It can't be. It has to be 25,000 euros. I think that's the beginning. Many times laws are passed which have similar application and say that there is no refund for the payments. There is this injustice that there is no refund for the paid. I'll show you dozens of laws, but in this particular case we don't have that. What for? Because it is done with doses that last many years and so the state, if it wants to, has the power to regulate it. So I say to you that you need to look at this, because they pay too much money - in areas where the values of property have fallen sharply - people who, if they knew of this fall, may not have taken care of them, but in any case, cannot remain at the same level as the fine imposed on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u209	I will repeat what I said earlier on the legal issue you raised at the beginning of the interpretation. There is the opinion 63/2016 of the Legal Council of State, which says that fines should be imposed on prices then. In other words, the interpretation of this wording of the law is that of the Legal Council of State. On the substance, I think you have mixed two different things. ENVIRONMENT is a capital tax and the current value. The value is changed and the tax is changed. The fine isn't the same. The fine is because once you made an arbitrary, once, you have been fruited with the benefits of arbitrary for years when others, those who did not arbitrarily, have not been fruited. At some point, then, we say you'll pay so much. Whether you'll pay for it in doses or not, it's another story. You have to pay so much for what happened to this day. It has nothing to do with future market price developments, the fine you have to pay. The same logic would have to change the fines imposed years ago for illegal parking, say. They should be differentiated - I do not know - perhaps imprisonment on the basis of how the conditions are evolving in society. So this is two different things. In the case of fines, the ratio with the HOPIA shall not apply. And I'll say the following. Assuming that we are doing this, we should also in the areas where the basic price has been increased to increase the fines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u210	Why? The principle of obedience?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u211	There is also the principle of equality, though! My view is that, if we have any possibility, as a state, to make some such burdens, to give some money, the most reasonable and correct, it would be to give a bonus, a subsidy to those who did not arbitrarily. Why not make it easier for the arbitrary and not give the surplus of the above that the arbitrary ones will pay for, who have been ruining the landscape for so many years? I therefore propose - if you will - that you bring an amendment - that I am not a Member - that we take these fines and give them to those who did not have the intelligence to do arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u212	Aren't they going to the Green Fund for this job?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u213	The Green Fund is not to reward those who did not arbitraryly. The Green Fund is for something to be done to tackle to a certain extent - because it is treated to a certain extent - the consequences of arbitrary construction. It destroys the residential environment, the natural environment, something you'll do there, but that doesn't save the others who didn't arbitrary. Those who didn't arbitrary are the suckers who stepped on her. They can't be fools all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u214	If they're ruining, why don't you take care of them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The first question under number 389/12-10-2020 will now be discussed, the circle of petitions and questions, by the MP Preveza of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Finance, on 'Eligibility of expenditure from the Recovery Fund for the building of public health structures'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the public health system, despite its undermining for decades of theoretical neoliberal approaches that sought to shrink it, responds adequately to its mission. Doctors, nurses, administrative staff upgrade and remind the importance of the public health system in our society. It is a great pleasure, Minister, that the management of the coronary pandemic has brought into place neoliberals who have been cutting that - my own - the market solves everything. They come and say now that only the public health system can care and can lead to the exit from the crisis in society due to the management of the pandemic. It is a pleasure, Minister, that one of these neoliberals is you, who are happy to hear your new position now, that the public health system, the ESS, must be supported to give a solution to the exit from the crisis. Over the last few days, we have heard about this notorious Recovery Fund, namely the money that the European Union will make available to the countries on a pro rata basis, which has been hit by the coronary. We hope, Minister, that the extortion of countries in a particular way will not pass. We will see that, however, then. The European Union, Minister, has created the Recovery Fund, which will obviously finance the recovery of the countries struck by the coronary. In this process, therefore, the question I would like to ask you is this: in Preveza we have an elderly hospital, perhaps the oldest hospital throughout the country. It is a 50 - year - old hospital, a public district hospital, which serves a vast area of population of about seventy thousand inhabitants. His situation, Minister, is unfortunately a bad one. So, Minister, I would like to ask you this: will the Recovery Fund be used to support health and education structures - I am interested in health structures - which have, on the one hand, been supporting the public system for decades and, on the other, are in a very critical situation? So, because it is imperative to create a new public prefecture hospital and because the European Union will also finance our country through the Recovery Fund, I ask you: Does it fall within the government's policies - that is, if it is eligible expenditure on the Recovery Fund - the building of new public health structures and so on, a new district hospital in Preveza? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skakakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thank the honourable Member for his question. It's a good opportunity to clear up a lot of things. First of all, I must tell you that it is generally acknowledged in health finances - and this is a purely scientific approach and a liberal and social democratic approach, I do not know what the Left is saying - that the market cannot solve health problems alone. It's a long debate because this is happening. A large part relates to so-called forced demand and asymmetry of information between the patient and the health provider. There are systems such as the American, which are extremely expensive, precisely because they have taken this route. The provision of health services with the help of the ESS is a strategic option to which we agree. The key is how this strategic choice will be effectively served. I will not go into the debate on where the health system is today, who is responsible and why, because I do not want to confront this kind of thing on a subject that we agree on. The serious investment in the public health system is necessary and in the coming years we will have an increase in health costs due to very expensive treatments. A piece of these treatments we see in the vaccines, but this is the cheapest one you can imagine in relation to what's coming. That's where we'll have to find a way. High technology is mainly produced by private enterprises. I would remind you that countries around the world have been on a complete deadlock when they have been in need of buying something very simple, as are masks. The State cannot effectively produce high-tech products. But this is completely different from the provision of health services. It's another thing that the magnetic tombographer is bought by a private body and another that the magnetic tomograph you use in the health system. In our case it is mostly public or is based on the insurance funds. So we need this serious investment and the Recovery Fund to make serious investments in the public health system. These investments cannot yet be described in detail, because we are in negotiation with the European Commission. Before this debate is over - if you don't say negotiation, tell the debate to be more precise - we'll have finalised what's going on. I can't get into details. The sure thing is that we will have investments in infrastructure, we will have investments in organisational systems, such as the e-mail patient. It's a crucial issue. The second example is the therapeutic protocols. It is a crucial issue, so that hospitals can monitor the very same things in the provision of health services. But not just hospitals. We will also place a great deal of emphasis on upgrading the primary system and prevention, which is the "great patient" and the Greek health system and the European and global. A very small part of prevention is vaccination. There are too many other things that are very important and prevention is decisive in the years to come, because it will enable us to reduce the cost of new treatments. But we'll say more in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u220	Minister, I have one comment to make first. You're very badly involved in the government headquarters supporting the New Democracy. Move to the left. This "suit" generally does not suit you, according to your past and the fans of the action. I'm afraid the action fans will turn your back. You are a collaborative minister of neoliberal cutting. We know that in the past, we have heard your views. I am pleased to see in the minutes of the Greek Parliament that Mr.Skillakis, after the dreadful asshole "we don't need the thirty-seven billion and why you packed them" but now you are the ones who use them, said today that the market cannot solve problems alone. Congratulations, Minister! You have found the solution to the problem of the political or political defeat you have suffered in previous years. In the summer there was a meeting in Preveza, in which the head of the hospital, as he has said in public - and the presence of the other Member of our prefecture, the Vice-President, the president of the Medical Association, the institutions of our region, told us that there was a meeting in the Ministry and said that there was a possibility that the Recovery Fund could join the building of a new hospital in Preveza. There the deputy mayor in collaboration with the mayor - he was also the mayor of Preveza obviously at this meeting - said they would try to check whether or not they were actually eligible for expenditure. Minister, I had to ask the question - first of all it was a simple question, but you did not bother answering me, so I turned it into a timely question - because it is necessary to build a new hospital and it is a single request from all the actors in the Preveza Prefecture. Unfortunately, what I have heard, what you said in general, is that we want a clear answer: Is there a request submitted to you in order to join the Greek side of the Recovery Fund's package in building new hospitals and, in particular, the new Preveza Hospital? Do you, Minister, intend to accept the unified request from all the actors in the Preveza Prefecture to build a new public, prefecture hospital in Preveza? I would like you to reply to that, Minister, and I think that this answer from your lips, from the government's lips, awaits her too many people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u222	I will start by saying that the demands and positions between ministries are not publicly announced until government policy is completed, especially on an issue in which we have also the added complexity of the involvement of the European side, with which we are moving very quickly, there has been no detailed debate on the issue of health. It will be within the next few days, because as I say, the Recovery Fund is moving very quickly. Therefore, as I do not give information under any circumstances, I cannot, I fear, give you this information. When the government presents its plan, then we can discuss it. After all, the time will come when there will be a debate in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u223	Your intention, Minister, what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u224	I'll tell you. There is one condition in the Recovery Fund, which is that infrastructure may be available, there should be permanent expenditure. All this should therefore be taken into account in relation to the Strategic Plan for the ESS. So I cannot answer every region in question, because you realise that there are many areas that each one has for the needs that are perfectly understandable, as are many needs for modernising infrastructure, as you have presented in Preveza. What solution will eventually be chosen by the Ministry to promote it is not my responsibility to answer it. But it is worth answering for my views. I fear that many times we are following the views of others from such a distance as if they were the other 'political Chinese' and all the Chinese look to us themselves. My own views on the health system, what I have been telling you about the provoking demand for asymmetric information, have been stable for decades. After all, I don't change my mind easily, I think you understand that. So there may have been other friends in the political area I find who have had the views you have described, but my opinion has always been the same: I believe that in the health system there must be a strong public part, but it must be checked very effectively, so that the final beneficiary is the patient and the taxpayer rather than the system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. We continue with the second with number 569/15-10-2020 question, of the cycle of petitions and questions, of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Greek Defence Systems (ESA)". This question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Skylakakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u226	Minister, the question concerning the Hellenic Defence Systems is essentially a set of questions from unanswered written questions to the Ministry of Finance. They are essentially about the lack of a strategic plan and the viability problems that the company has. There have been many decisions for a long time on problems relating to liquidity and the economic situation. The Occupied Accountants’ Report to the General Meeting, held on 29 September 2020 to the Ministry of Finance, shows that there is substantial uncertainty about the company’s ability to continue its normal activity in the future and points out that the company’s capital is negative and that the conditions for the solution of the company or other measures are met. This is why the administration has asked for financial support of 18.6 million in order to enable the company to meet current contracts and to proceed with the implementation of programmes already undertaken, but the Ministry of Finance has refused. We want you to tell us if you have any specific operational plan. You don't have approved, but do you have a plan for NSAs? What do you intend to do with negative liquidity and the need for capital support? Will you pay the receipts from the Iraqi conventions? It is incomprehensible that the Ministry of Finance withholds payments from Iraq to the company and that the company at the same time cannot obtain bailout letters to implement "current" programs to ask for aid and not to take it. Is there any possibility of liquidating the company? What decisions have you made? Are there any thoughts to make the company a military factory? Are there any thoughts about divesting the company? In addition to the plots of Elefsina and Mandra, are there any thoughts of divestment of other land? Are there any thoughts of transferring business or activities to third parties? These questions arise when there is no administrative support. Command makes a struggle, but its potential is limited. The Ministry does not seem to support the administration to deal with the company's problems. Will you finally grant the institutional opportunity for the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work? A similar arrangement has been made for ODA by the Ministry of Finance and the NCA is pending. You only brought one company arrangements for the other, why not? You are well aware of the risk and the tests and work and the production of ammunition. Munitions produce, not veils! Will a collective agreement be concluded? Is it in your intentions? Will you support the administration in order to move forward? Finally, what do you know about the re-introduction of the two or three that have been left out of the nine who have been made redundant by the previous government? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u228	Questions are more than the time I have, based on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u229	Share them in your protology and dentext, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u230	I'll try to split them. This House must first be informed of the reality of the NSAs. It's a very good opportunity. I start with the State's expenditure in the NSAs from 16-10-2015, based on the relevant Office's note, up to 29 September 2020. Aggregating the State has put EUR 832 million in capital increase amounts. It is a horrifying amount if you estimate that this company has a sales cycle of 30 million in 2019 and 13 million euros in 2018. We are therefore talking about a huge amount that has been allocated to NRAs in recent years, to capitalise old debts and loans and to continue to operate, which is, if you put the average of two years, around 25 million. It is thirty times the turnover of this company's business. It is true, yes, that this company has negative own funds. It is therefore a serious problem that needs to be addressed. To say one aspect, the management of the company is making an effort and we have financed it from the Ministry of Finance. Consider that we have, in 2020, put EUR 14 million, that is, we have set about as much as the administrative costs of the company, which are 18. Nearly the administrative costs of the company have been borne by the state. After years the administration begins to open up foreign markets, but it is small amounts. There's been an attempt to exploit the company's property. The company does have a worthwhile real estate and must be rationally exploited. And from there on, it is clear that there will be a different perception, because the Greek state cannot pay back EUR 800 million for the NSA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u232	I will not call into question the data on the payment side, but it needs a broader analysis of what is involved and what has happened to the money from projects collected by the Ministry of Finance, from land and from other projects. Let me say this: Today we must not see what was previously given to cover loans, gaps or anything else. We must make a crucial decision, given that the Greek Defence Industry in general can play an important role, not only for the Greek Armed Forces and the strengthening of their deterrent power, but also as a field for the development of economic activities that will bring new wealth to the country. It is one of the areas we have the potential to develop, we have the prerequisites, technology and know-how, and we have to do it with a plan. So we need an operational plan first of all for NSAs, which does not exist. The second thing we need is to guarantee them the conditions for them to be able to operate for their contracts. And I will give you an example. To sell the materials from third countries, such as the United States of America, in order to implement already existing contracts, the company needs to pay money, a guarantee letter and more of them. He has to make a guarantee to testify to the equivalent. If you take care of this, a state-owned company for the guarantee letter which commits it resources and in particular brings back the implementation of the programmes, will not be inconsistent, i.e. it will be consistent with the implementation of the programmes and will be able to generate revenue, because soon after that, given that the process of production of the munitions is completed, there is a flaw. So, while there is a imperfection of the final product, you say 'give a guarantee letter until it is done'. He doesn't want any money. That doesn't want money. He wants you to dismiss the bureaucracy, which requires that a guarantee letter be lodged by the state NCAs. I have also told the Finance Minister too many times that 110 million is NSA money. So I am not saying that this money should be taken and go to management, but through them, we should implement Armed Forces' armaments programmes which are not implemented because of non-financing. The 110 million, therefore, with six-monthly instalments - I think they come - will be a significant liquidity boost for the company. But you're holding it back to the Treasury. You don't even give them the guarantees. They are therefore matters that can be dealt with directly, but also in the long term on the basis of the government's political will to do what it wants to do. We, therefore, as a Change Movement, which we have tabled the proposal for the development of our country's defence industry, not only for the Greek Armed Forces, but also for it to have contracts with other countries and for it to implement programmes in the context of its competitiveness, we believe that you must immediately deal with and draw up an operational plan for the company, with the cooperation of the administration and experts, and at the same time resolve the individual issues relating to direct operation, at least bureaucratic. You don't give money? Give her own, which is Iraq, and solve the bureaucratic problems. Solve the issue of industrial relations, the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work. See what you're going to do with the collective agreement. Take a look at the issue of the abusive redundancies made by the previous government. They're two-three more people who haven't been hired.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, the reality is, of course, that we are giving money. I told you what we gave, the 14 million, cash. I did not tell you that the Treasury paid for this year - I speak only for this year -19 millions of guarantees from the NCA loans. You are therefore aware that, at this rate of advances of guarantees, Iraq's money will be consumed in about five-and-a-half years. It is much more than the payments from the relevant contract, which is signed between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Iraq, with the beneficiary of the Hellenic Republic. The truth is that we need a defence industry, because we have defence needs that are independent of our will, very important. But the defence industry, to exist and succeed, needs a radical change of attitude. This is promoted to other industries, in the case of ELVO with the entry of a strategic investor. The same goes for Scaramaga Shipyards. More generally, there is a structured effort of the government, and the time will come to present its plan for the NSA very soon. We can't do this today. All I can say to you - because that is my responsibility, expressly - as regards the allowance for unhealthy work, is that my view is that those who do unhealthy work must receive this benefit. There is a Memorandum of Understanding from the previous government, which says that a committee needs to examine all unhealthy work allowances objectively. Because of the coronary this has been postponed until April. The NSAs, as far as I know, pay unhealthy work allowances in some ‘from the flag’ way, as you know better than I do. I repeat, therefore, that my view is that those who do really do dangerous and unhealthy work must always receive the relevant allowance. What cannot be done is administrative or other reflective to receive relevant allowances. When the time comes to legislate - to get the relevant CSM out, we probably don't need legislation - after April and when the pandemic is over, we will proceed in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too, Minister. We enter the debate on the second question by No 215/30-11-2020 on the second time question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Strength of agony by businesses, professionals, farmers and workers'. Mr Ioannis Vroutz will reply to the timely question by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the second lockdown - there are different views - was necessary as the conditions were, but it was not inevitable. Regardless of this, however, it is certain that it has a huge impact on business and work. The Ministry of Labour is - let us say this - the Ministry that accepts the problem that this whole situation is causing, either because of the restrictive measures decided on or because of the consequences which come then as a chain reaction. We have an area which, to a certain extent, has been dealt with by October in terms of work, either by suspending either EUR 534 or by strengthening it in other ways. Since October, there has been a major problem first of all for people who have not been able to complete the fifty meanings in foodism, but also in many cases seasonal workers in tourism and hotels and in other businesses. These people in the next three and a half months will have a problem with the unemployment benefit for seasonal workers. However, we also have a problem with those who have so far received the EUR 534, which obviously was not a suitable wage for the survival of their family, and therefore there is no room for Christmas or after Christmas, provided for the payment of unemployment benefit, to be able to survive. So we have a problem that everyone, others more strongly and others less strongly, because they have so far had the support. In this sense, we want to know whether it is in your opinion that it is up to you to pay aid until Christmas to all these people who will not be able to obtain the aid of the unemployment fund. And for those who manage to take her - they may be paid later - it is not enough for their family to survive. Do you intend to draw up a proposal to pay a 534, say - in symbolically 534- to all these workers before Christmas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. At the extension of the question tabled just before Mr Kegeroglou and because we, together with the Minister for Finance, tabled our proposal on how financial aid will develop in December, I would like to inform the House in this respect through the text which is the decision of the two ministries and the government more widely. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour shall announce the extension of financial aid measures to address the financial impact of the pandemic for the month of December 2020. In particular: First, workers of enterprises, employers throughout the territory affected by the expanded list of SMRs in April may be suspended on a temporary basis and are beneficiaries of a specific contract of employment proportionally for the period to be suspended on an amount of EUR 534 per month. For the above period, the full insurance contributions calculated on the nominal salary by the government budget shall be proportionately covered. Undertakings shall, during the suspension of the workers' contract of employment for the period after the withdrawal of the suspension, retain the same number of workers. For undertakings which close by a public authority, the employment contract of workers shall be suspended and for as long as the suspension is applicable, redundancies shall be void. Secondly, for undertakings which are suspended by a public authority order within the month, the possibility of suspending payment of the instalments of regulated tax and insurance liabilities payable in December and of reimbursing them shall be transferred to corresponding instalments at the end of the applicable arrangement. Thirdly, for workers who end their contract of employment and who are suspended, the possibility of suspending payment of the instalments of regulated tax debt payable in December and their repayment is transferred to corresponding instalments at the end of the current arrangement. Fourthly, the suspension of payment of bank loans on the basis of the extended list of SMRs in consultation with the Greek Banking Association by the end of the year continues. Fifthly, as announced and already implemented, all unemployment benefits ending in September, October, November and December by two months are extended. Sixthly, compulsory teleworking throughout the territory is extended to at least 50% of the staff in the private and public sectors, with the exception of activities where there is an objectively weak teleworking. Seventhly, all enterprises affected by the enlarged April SAR list are entitled to a 40% rent reduction in their business properties and in December. The same applies to the principal residence of workers who are suspended from employment contracts and to the residence of dependent members. For owners who lease property in these enterprises and the above employees and in December 50% of their losses will be paid to the beneficiaries and credited to their bank accounts. Eighth, the repayable advance 5 will be granted in January 2021 on the basis of the drop in turnover September-December 2020. 50 % of the aid is not reimbursed subject to maintenance of the same level of employment by the end of June 2021. All companies will have the right to participate if they meet the criteria for the drop in turnover. A further right to participate will also be given to new businesses that opened in September and October. The amount of aid fixed by the mathematical formula to be applied will be taken into account for the entire period September to December and adjusted according to the amount received by the undertakings in advance 4. This enables those who have not been able to apply for the refund 4 to receive the aid for the whole amount and to make the necessary adjustments to the data recorded in the previous declaration. Ninth, the payment of the traffic charges of 2021 by two months shall be extended until 26 February 2021. Furthermore, Madam President, I should like to inform the House that the Christmas gift - the necessary ministerial decision will be signed tomorrow at the Ministry of Labour - will normally be paid by all companies, in accordance with the existing legislation, on 21 December for the section on the real wages paid by businesses. For the part concerning that portion of payments granted through suspensions of contracts of employment or special purpose permits, the State assumes this and the payment of the money of the Christmas gift will begin on 21 December. One small detail: The part of December, due to failure to calculate the companies which are open, affected or open, this month's section will only be made in terms of state payments at the beginning of January 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u240	If I understood correctly, Minister, because you announce them, I believe, after their signature - you are extending the measures of November and including for the Christmas gift the provision that they will be paid by 23 December and the part concerning the public. You said you'd start on December 21st. The first thing is that. I want us to focus and see what's happening to seasonal people. Because the seasonals, as you know, are three categories, and the first ones are the ones who have to work since last October. These have been supported in various ways, with the extension of the allowance etc., but now it is impossible to support them. The second category is those who have worked, but have not been able to complete the fifty trademarks, most of which are in foodism and need at least the unemployment benefit. The third category is the ones with 534, while they worked, cannot and will not be able to get unemployment benefit until January until Christmas. So, I would say one thought, to address the problem of those who do not complete the fifty marks, so that they can receive at least two months of aid. You're giving them these two months to those who already get unemployment benefit because you're expanding it two months, if I understand it correctly, and I'm fine. Those who have not been able to work because of the crisis obviously and not because they did not seek or complete the fifty meanings because they have reached thirty, forty, or only for the purpose of sporadic cuts, will have to receive support for Christmas for one or two months on unemployment benefits. Finally, you should consider giving a 534 extra to those who took it by October. Look at it, because there's a problem. Of course we need to see the budgets, but at the same time we need to see that all of this world, because it is not possible to strengthen it from another source, it has families, it has children and it must survive. See if this possibility exists so that in the next few days decisions can be made to support themselves and their families. The seasonals are at the worst of fate. Of those seasonal people who didn't fill up the fifty badges, but the others are not in a better condition, of course. We're talking about who's in worse shape than the other one. In any case, care is needed for all these workers and, of course, especially for those seasonal workers who do not have this total support, which you have announced. See also the issue of those who will receive the three months unemployment benefit after you have extended the benefits of those who have received two months until now, if you will extend it for them by one month, that is, the three months being four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u242	Madam President, in order to remove any misunderstandings in the debate we are having on the Christmas present in what Mr Kegeroglu has raised, I would reiterate that the Christmas gift will be paid by businesses, as provided for by the current legislation, namely on 21 December, while on the State side it will be paid from 21 December. Watch what I'm saying. I say this because many times, while we pay it on 21st of a month, as we want, and we consistently do so on the date we say, because of the 'DIA' system and because thousands of entries are being delayed to the recipient one or two days. So our intention is to be met by the end of December. Today we say more specifically that the money will be paid from December 21st in the afternoon through the account that we have in the Ministry of Labour in the "DIA" system, so that the amounts corresponding to seven of the eight months that are the suspensions of the contracts, the gift of Christmas, can be reached in the accounts. In addition, I should like to add briefly to Parliament the suspensions of November concerning the affected enterprises. Because for those who are closed with a government order, the money has already been paid to our 328 000 fellow citizens, which exceeded EUR 210 million. The second ones, which I am referring to now, concern the firms affected in November, and first of all we said that it would be by the end of December, we have done our utmost to make this money available from 12 December. So we are trying, Mr Kegeroglu, within the specific possibilities we have, to do what we can to bring forward payments. It is simply worth saying sometimes that what is being done in Greece is not being done in any other European country. Because in Greece we have the privilege of having the "ERGANI". If there were no "ERGANI", it would be quite different in terms of pay for workers. The "ERGAN" has given us the right to record with absolute clarity the workers, their employment relationship, their wages. The 'ERGANI' was created - on 1 March 2013 for other reasons, on the one hand for reasons of reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens on businesses, and on the other hand as the ultimate electronic shield in the EIA to combat undeclared work or abuses. Mr Kegeroglu, I have a list here - but time has passed - with too many initiatives that we have developed as the Ministry of Labour in recent years to support all our citizens. I agree with you - and it would be absurd not to agree - that the enemy of good is the best. Of course we should support every citizen. Even those who will receive the unemployment benefit - which you did not mention - in an extension of two months, even those who take the 534, I wish we could give more. However, we are slandered, with responsibility, to the extent that we are allowed to do so by the budgetary strength of our economy and you can be sure that no fellow citizens will be left uncovered by the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, too, Minister. Will the second question of the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Rodopi - Progressive Alliance Mr Dimitrios (Takis) Charitou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Would you protect the households from the power cut imposed by PPC and other providers in the midst of pandemic?' The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr Colleagues and Mr Minister, I would ask you to try to be in time, because we still have very many time-consuming questions to finish and the time has already passed. Now we should have finished the topical questions and we have eight more left to understand. So please be consistent in time. Thank you, gentlemen. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, we are admittedly in the most critical part of the pandemic. The vulnerable households are struggling to survive, they are unable to pay the debts to PPC and private providers and they constantly accumulate debts. And the organization that you head and pulls down the power switches comes in. The incident in a mountainous village of Rhodope, which shocked the pan-Hellenic, is only indicative. The words, Mr. Undersecretary, "please cut the current, but once the children's lesson is finished" are very heavy and will follow you as a blue stigma in your politics. Only, unfortunately, this is not the only incident. It is experienced by tens of thousands of our fellow citizens, closed in their homes, without access to electricity, possibly without heating, students without access to telephony, because the current has been stopped in their homes. Such an incident of one parent family became known, not far away, but here, in the center of Athens. If you think that I am exaggerating, think that in the first days of November they were issued only in Rhodope over six hundred fifty commands of electricity disruption. Four hundred agricultural currents were cut in a two-month period in Rhodope. I can assume what's going on all over Greece. You increased PPC's tariffs to consumers by 8.33% in the first half of 2020. You have reduced the debt threshold from EUR 1 000 to EUR 400, and you have taken no substantial measures to protect vulnerable households in real weakness and despair. If you were aware of the seriousness of the situation, you would have accepted the relief measures of the affected groups that we have submitted to you. Measures, such as the free supply of electricity from 150 to 300 kilowatts a month for the pandemic period and their inclusion in the social invoice, such as the ban on the dismantling of electricity, such as the free reconnection of cut-off benefits, and the adjustment of dues due from 1-1 to 2022. Your refusal, Mr. Undersecretary, shows that you are far from what Greek society experiences. So I ask you: what specific emergency measures will you take to relieve affected social groups? Will you proceed directly to the reduction of the electricity tariff by PPC?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Haritou, I also read the parliamentary questions that were put to the Ministry and answered by the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, but also by the then State Secretary for Energy, Mr Thomas. There is no disagreement that we are living in a situation that is unprecedented, as is the need for special care for citizens and especially for vulnerable households. The issue we have to deal with needs responsibility, a measure, but also an understanding, as you have rightly mentioned, of this difficult situation. For vulnerable households, there is a protection framework that we were expanding in the midst of a pandemic. First, the social tariff with special discounts for those who are part of it and fulfil specific income criteria, as well as the environmental domestic tariff applicable to the households of the areas charged by PPC's lignite activities and which is maintained in force. Secondly, the special account for the reconnection of electricity to vulnerable consumers with overdue debts, which prove to be unable to repay. This is a policy that was launched in SYRIZA and which we continued with the joint ministerial decision adopted a few months ago. An amount of EUR 5 million was allocated through this instrument to reconnect benefits to more than a thousand vulnerable households. We continue to apply the same initiative on a special line from the state budget. Thirdly, the framework for the universal electricity supply service imposed by European legislation. This tool ensures that households and small businesses can request their electricity from the universal service supplier, PPC, that is to say, if they do not find any company to power them. But we didn't stop there. The Ministry of Environment and Energy has shown understanding from the very beginning to households with problems and because of the pandemic. In this context, we urged all electricity supply companies to support vulnerable consumers, each in its own capacity measures. PPC, the largest electricity company in the electricity sector, was the first to respond to the call by applying two special packages for vulnerable consumers, one for the period from 26 March to the end of June and one now, from 1 October to the end of December. Among the measures are free of charge for households with low voltage, 8% discount for households and professionals with a consumption of over 2,000 kilowatts and 8% discount for customers of category B' and C', i.e. for elderly people over seventy years and other special categories. Initiatives in this direction have also been taken by many private providers, thereby supporting citizens in practice. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Because of time limitation, I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Madam President. I have listened very carefully, Mr Secretary, but I cannot follow you. The tops came down in people's lives, almost ten months now, and from what I understand, what you describe as being a normal situation, as if nothing happens, you feel about everything going well, almost satisfied. One hundred and twenty thousand of our fellow citizens were found without work. Three thousand seasonal workers don't have a cut. Professionals and small farmers accumulate accounts under shop doors and in village cafes. And I realized you're satisfied. Why? As far as I can tell from what you said, obviously, you mean the 8% reduction in a specific provision. As well as the fund you mentioned, you have concealed that it is only a thousand hundred and fifty vulnerable households. Is that how you're going to deal with the situation? At the same time, last September, you increased electricity tariffs by 20%. 11% is more expensive in 2020, a pandemic than it was in 2019. Minister, EUR 28.4 is the wholesale price of electricity, and the retail price is EUR 110. Party is done, dance, speculation dance on the back of vulnerable and affected households! And you, instead of this profitability that both PPC and providers have to make use of it to satisfy the vulnerable social groups, you feel that you are satisfied, you feel that everything is broken. I would therefore like to believe that there is a great need for you to proceed with the regulation we have tabled with the amendment so that the vulnerable households can actually be relieved. It is necessary for society itself to have it, for those who are affected today in difficult conditions, in the crisis of our pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Madam President. As I mentioned in my prototype, I would like to say, Mr Colleague, that they are certainly difficult times and we are doing our utmost to meet this problem. Of course, any move does not cover all needs and always for that and benefits and improvements and corrections continue. I would like to say that since last March, when the country entered the difficult phase, we have clearly said that no human being will be unprotected. It is true that there are also mistakes, that what you mentioned is happening alone, and I agree with you. That is why the government is coming corrigendum and where such a problem arises, it comes immediately to intervene and give a solution and a way out. That is what the previous government has done in the past too, and that is what we are doing today. However, I would like to tell you that this cannot be generalised, as requested by the fact that there are no general reductions of power supplies, because we are reaching the other end, that many and a wave of strategic malpractices are created, and that has led to - not to lead again! - PPC in new adventures. Because we know that PPC's unpaid debts exceed EUR 3 billion. We are in a transition from an old era to a new era and all these measures must be taken responsibly, efficiently and with priority to the weak and vulnerable populations and inhabitants. In fact, there are no two ends, on the one hand the good ones and on the other. We simply, as a government responsible, need to find the best solution to the possibilities that we really have to cover a sensitive area, as you have mentioned, and, at the same time, to stop side effects on the energy system in the country, because it has had many changes and many costs. As far as the rural population is concerned, because I and you come from the prefectures of farmers, PPC has been fully respected in the sector and the specificities it offers farmers a special set-up programme that will strengthen what has been in place since October. PPC's farmers have the possibility of joining a favourable regulatory framework, with the payment of a small part of the due amount as an advance. For those who receive after-years - and we know that many of the farmers for many months do not collect until they arrive and receive income - the possibility of suspending the issue of accounts for the period from May to September at the request of them is given. Finally, I say that all of this is part of a plan to combat energy poverty in our country, since it is not just an obligation to adapt to European legislation, but it is a priority for our state to respond to its role and to protect those who really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We move on to the third question under number 1229/30-10-2020 of the cycle of petitions and questions, of SYRIZA's MP II Thessaloniki - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The Government has also decided to privatise the management of water and the loss of property of OTAs?' The question will also be answered by the State Secretary for the Environment, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. We wish you many years, even late, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Madam President. And since I have wished for many years too, I would like to point out that this is a question addressed to the Ministers for the Environment and Home Affairs, which was written on the occasion of the statements made by the Secretary-General for Waste, Mr Grafakos, who, at a conference in Yannina on 24 September, had spoken of the Government's intention to reduce the number of JHAs and privatise their functions. I would like to say, Mr Tagaras, that the first thing you need to answer is why you did not reply in writing, why he did not choose the Environment Ministry to tell us what his opinion is. Why don't you want your place to be written? Do you have a plan you're hiding? Because what emerges from the Secretary-General's statements is a serious matter of changing self-government powers, reducing the assets of the municipalities, privatising their functions at the expense of both the municipalities and the citizens and businesses, and while another project has been established and implemented by agreement between the European Union. So, you're choosing something that makes everyone losers. The whole society will lose out of this, hiding that with Europe we are implementing another project. And to be more specific, Madam President, with magnificence of the kind 'we will break eggs' and 'cooperation with private individuals must not be taboo', Mr Grafakos mentioned the fact that the government intends to apply the PPP model for JHA and unite them. As an excuse for this unacceptable and incomprehensible sloppy statement he used not to go ahead with the National Solution Plan. So you must now and tell us whether or not the Government is aware of the existence of a National Lyon Plan, which has been signed with the contribution of the Directorate-General of the Regions, the 'DG Regio', that is, Europe, and the CEDEFOP and the Union of Regions and the Union of the JHA and the relevant ministries. Is this plan being implemented in accordance with the schedule? Do you know that this plan was intended for the country to meet all the needs of wastewater infrastructure based on the European directive, so that it would not be in danger of a fine? Either you don't know or you delay it to have a fine and have a pretext for privatisation. Do you know that there is a Lyon Technical Secretariat, which resolves all the issues, supports the municipalities, helps synergies between the JHAs, and does the JHA Union know this, and self-government, so that we can have wastewater and sewerage infrastructures everywhere, not just processing, in accordance with Europe's legislation? Do you also know that the Leather Management Plans have been completed, but also the invoicing regulation that was heresy? So, we found snipers, weaknesses in the country to implement funding, we undone them, we made plans. They had been stopped by the government in which you participated, Mr. Tagaras, until 2015. We had no water plans, no threat of flooding, no pricing plan, a regulation. All this has been undone, and now there is a plan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I shall conclude, Madam President. So why do you choose as a government to create a climate of precariousness in JHA, to question their feasibility, role and function, and we have a national plan with them to implement the projects as Europe wants? So you're rescheduling European planning too. I think you should answer us today if you have put the property of the municipalities in the eye and if you intend to merge the JHA with "so I want" and privatize the functions. I shall return, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Famelle, first of all, thank you for your wishes. Be well, you and everyone! You have nursed as Deputy Minister of the Environment and you are well aware of the management and water and sewage issues. You, too, have tried to intervene and improve the institutional framework. Reality is not good with regard to urban waste water management. Of the four hundred two settlements I’, B’ and C’ category, that is to say the settlements with a population of more than two thousand inhabitants, the settlements that are not in compliance with the requirements of European legislation on waste water management infrastructure are two hundred eighty-nine, based on the latest data available in October. This, while the country should have complied with, as you know, the Community Directive 91/271 and its forecasts for these settlements since 2005. It cannot be left-wing or right-wing that reality. It's just a reality that we need to change. The same applies to the warning letter, which you yourself referred to, addressed to Greece by the European Commission on 14 May 2020, because in these settlements the urban waste water is not properly collected and is not properly treated as regards its disposal. There is a dramatic delay in infrastructure development, there is a risk that the country will be fined. But we have no reason to hide a reality. In any case, of course, we are not talking about privatizations in water. Because of the non-compliance - in fact I am referring to - certain settlements are not complete or do not work properly, so waste water treatment is not properly carried out. At the same time - and this is perhaps the most important one - there are no integrated waste water management infrastructures. In particular, this is a hundred and eighty-five cases, which have integrated the projects into funding, but have not been completed, ten cases with studies, but without integration, and thirty-seven cases without integrated studies. In relevant expertise from the European Commission in twenty-six settlements with infrastructure which had been financed in the past, but which were not working, which we received in June 2020, a number of issues were identified which led to this situation. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. That is how a great debate has started between government and government - what you have also mentioned before - in order to have structural changes, because this cannot continue, this reality must be changed. So to proceed with the projects, the country will succeed in adapting to the directive I have read, and it will be able to impose it - unfortunately, Mr Famele - the lowest possible fine, because it is a development and a real situation. Because of the time I'm going to continue with more detail in my dentext.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, I tell you in advance that the question remains, whether you will proceed to a JHA merger and whether you will proceed to privatise JHA functions. With regard to what you mentioned about the plan, you are well aware that on my own initiative, but also on the initiative of the SYRIZA Government, the National Solution Plan was completed which was not in place by the previous governments and all the optional conditions set by the Commission were completed to free the money. So we have also agreed with the Directorate-General for Regional Policy that there will be no fine for Greece if the projects are made in accordance with the National Plan. So if you are now asking for delays, it is a revelation, Madam President. The Government admits that it is delaying the National Lyon Plan and we will have a fine from the Commission, which was not on the Greek agenda until now for Directive 91/271. We knew and which settlements are pending - you left them, about two hundred as you said - and what settlements they cannot afford and we found a way with the CEDEFOP and the JHA Union and the EIA to solve the problem. But there is something else here that you are exploiting a problem that has been solved, delayed and at risk by the country with a fine to unify JHA to get the property from the municipalities and privatise functions. But here, Madam President, I have to say: the New Democracy Government rejected the constitutional review which protected the good of water and energy. One of the prisoners. Secondly, you came later, with the September 2019 decision and increased the cost to the municipalities by 20% in energy, which affected all of the JHA. You are creating a matter of sustainability with a second decision. You come at the same time as you took over the administration and abolish the Special Secretariat for Waters. So you are also abolishing the state’s final body that would help the municipalities to implement the National Water Plan. Stop programming recruitment and have left 3K with serious problems of strengthening the JHA because the posts are not staffed. So you leave the JHA without any staff. Remove constitutional protection, increase energy costs, remove the perfect structure. So, Mr. Tagaras, did you get the plan in order not to implement the National Solution Plan? Not to mention the projects that you are preparing, such as the privatisation of the ECHR aqueduct, in order to give private all abroad aqueduct or the other problems that you are creating in the other municipalities. So here we need to speak clearly. Mr. Arafos, the Secretary-General, on a committee on June 4th, made it clear that the National Lyon Plan will be implemented with the Technical Secretariat and you will assist the municipalities. So, Mr Tagaras, no debate has taken place with the municipalities on structural changes in the ownership of projects, the merger of the JHA and the privatisation of functions, because, Madam President, public funds had been provided for the entire National Lyon Plan, without any PPPs, because if you do PPPs in a JHA, it means that the private person decides on water supplies and water tariffs. So here you have to answer us for that, Mr Tagaras. Since you are here, I would like you to tell me, because you have the responsibility now, if the decision of the National Water Commission is adopted 135275, which is - to say it simply - the Pollution and Invoicing Regulation of Water Services and the cutter in water increases, so that there are invoices for vulnerable social groups. Is there a database in your supervision, which records all the functional water management features, so that there is control and strong government supervision to have good quality and quantity of water for all citizens? We asked a question, which has been made since December 2019 as to whether you are applying it and we have not received an answer. However, the institutions, as I found, in their report in February 2020, point out that not all data are available in the database and many municipalities have not even put the energy costs, which you have increased. So, Mr Tagaras - and I conclude, Madam President - if you really admit that you are delaying the national plan to make a PPP, that is a serious problem for the public interest. If you do not implement all these reforms, this is another major deregulation implemented by the New Democracy in water. You have to answer us for this: Is the property of JHA questionable? Are you going to make a merging plan? Are you going to privatize, dynamizing what was good in the past few years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u257	Thank you very much, my colleague. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Femmelle, we have no reason to delay our fines. We're just trying to fix it. And reality is tough. I'm saying this because you spoke with numbers, and I referred to my prototype. Our aim is whatever gap there is to fill in and cover any weaknesses. Our aim is the modern management of urban waste water. Of course, you know - and we all know - that all of this is directly linked to the living standards of citizens and local societies. In this spirit the positions of the Secretary-General, Mr Grafakos, have also been placed in the past. As regards the expertise I mentioned earlier, the need for improved programming and coordination under the supervision of the Ministry's Services for a more active role in monitoring waste water projects and in providing technical organisational and management support to project beneficiaries, who are experiencing considerable difficulties in meeting their tasks, was highlighted. These recommendations underline the need for a new model. And because you referred to me, I would also refer to the fact that at a meeting held in September with DGregio officials, it was stated that the country should restructure the urban waste water management structures, rationalising the number of JHAs. From the hundreds of eighteen JHAs in the country, several operate satisfactorily and have actually developed efficient infrastructure and facilities. However, many JHAs do not have staff, the technical and management capacity and the systems required to support the particularly demanding work of urban waste water management. After all, it is one of the main reasons why 60% of the country's settlements are in non-compliance with the European directive 15 years after the deadline that it laid down. When such a situation has been established, we cannot simply monitor it or make findings. It is time to make decisions, and this problem is solved. This is why institutional changes are being planned in the direction of strengthening JHA, extending the geographical limits of their competence and improving organisational and management capacity. That is why we are making progress in implementing the required projects in all the non-compliance settlements, utilizing all available sources of funding for the NSRF, which starts in the next programming period, as well as in the Recovery Fund, in which we have tabled a proposal for inclusion for broader projects in the development of urban waste water infrastructure and management. On the contrary, we have no reason to grant public and municipal infrastructure to private individuals with multi-annual contracts. That's not our target. Our aim is to unite forces, to be self-sufficient, to manage the structures of the JHA, so that they can respond to the role they have taken. Faced with this great challenge, urban waste water management, the Government and the Ministry of the Environment are seeking modern and effective solutions. In this direction we move, reverse this delay and the negative situation in order to avoid fines and, above all, to protect public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 196/24-11-2020 in the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The members of the teaching and research staff of the University of Western Attica". The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dygalakis, will answer. Mr Colleague, you have two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the former TEI, Madam President, Mr Deputy Minister, a large portion of teaching staff - teachers for many years - some of them and over twenty years - have been hostages, in reality interrupted labour contracts. These are the well-known contractors of TEIs, who covered the main teaching and research needs of TEIs. In 2017, under Article 20 of Law 4452, the Law on the State Certificate of Language Learning, a large number of them - not all, however - of these former contracted TEI teachers were appointed to a grade of TEI Application Teachers. We haven't arrived, you see, in the TEI mergers, which will come after a year, as I will say. The wording of the law provided that the members of the educational staff of the TEI, who, through irrevocable judicial decisions, were found to be linked to the TEI in a single contract of conditional employment for an indefinite period, occupy, upon their request, individual positions of application professors, which is the case. In February 2018, one year later, the former TEIs of Athens and Piraeus were absorbed under the well-known process of mergers and were converted into the well-known University of Western Attica. It's the beginning of the TEI merger. This is a repetition in a slightly different way - however, the essence remains the same - of the former Minister for Arvanitopoulou's "ATHENA" project. These new departments absorbed those ICP members who were serving in the former TEIs, which were merged and classified, of course, at corresponding levels of university. This procedure included those who had been appointed under the article mentioned above, Article 6 of Law 4452, but those who won until then, it is understood, as well as those who won irrevocable judicial decisions and were subsequently subject to this law, that is, after the vote and publication of this law, in February 2017. This process, Madam President, has remained active so far, since this provision of the law remains active, and of course also concerns the University of Western Attica and the rest of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would just like a minute, Madam President, because it is extremely important. In October 2020, the Third Department of the Law Council of the State takes the view that this provision was transitional and therefore cannot include those who had irrevocable judicial decisions after the publication of the law. The people that happened, that's what happened. The opinion does not remain here, but goes further, saying that the budgets can be retrospectively revoked - please - the appointments and that these LPD members can be recruited to places of indeterminate staff - take care - when and when these posts are institutionalised and formed at universities in compliance with the judicial decision and provided that there is a possibility of compliance with this. Ask May to eat a clover, that is! They're kicking them out, and then they're trying to gold out the pill. So we ask you, Mr Secretary: what are you going to do to prevent any recruitment of teaching staff from being withdrawn? Ensure all the jobs of these teachers. Keep all their working rights in line with these positions, i.e. their perpetuality and wage characteristics. What are you going to do - will we always ask you this - so that new teaching staff can be recruited at universities? Reality vaguely shouts that they need it as much as they ever do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Delis, you're getting ahead of yourself. But let me start my answer from your second question, because the first will take a little more time. A few weeks ago we were here again and I was answering your question. I told you, therefore, that, under No 42 on 30 September, an act of ministerial council had been approved by thirty-five members. Today, as we have announced for a few days, these positions have already been allocated to universities and the University of West Attica has received twenty-two permanent teachers' posts from these three hundred fifty. These are to be added to the two positions that we gave in the summer and from which eleven DPAs were allocated at the University of West Attica. So the two divisions are at the five hundred new membership of universities. To understand the size, it corresponds to 5.5% of all PPC members who served at the end of the academic year 2018-2019, of which the University of West Attica received thirty three ITP members. Of course, there were also two hundred and eighty-four posts of temporary teaching staff - for example, 407/80 - in universities this year, of which the University of West Attica, for which you are asking, received fourteen posts. So this is how we deal with the recruitment of teaching staff, permanent posts of teachers at universities. But I'm going to come to your first question that's going to get me secondary. Let's see what the special teaching staff were at the ex-teachers. In order to cover the teaching and scientific needs of the former TEIs, therefore, educational staff were recruited under a fixed-term private-law contract. The contract could therefore last for up to one academic year and be renewed up to two. This staff were recruited either as a scientific partner or as a laboratory partner, as well as in the category of specialist training. A minimum degree of qualification is defined by either the assistant professor or the Application Teacher, as well as by the members of special teaching staff. Educational staff were entrusted with the performance of teaching, research or other scientific and organisational work, depending on the level to which they corresponded. In a series of judicial decisions, as you have mentioned, contractors have been able to identify them as being linked to the TEI on an indefinite basis. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speech is ringing.]] I will take some time from dentistry and I will be consistent in my dentistry, Madam President. The Government of SYRIZA, by Article 20 of Law 4452, therefore considered that the members of educational staff of TEIs who had been judged by irrevocable decisions to be linked to TEI, occupy, in accordance with the regulation of SYRIZA, individual positions of applying teachers. Law 4485, the SYRIZA framework law on universities, then enrolled them with the lecturers of the former TEIs, giving them the opportunity, in so far as they have a doctorate, to apply until 31/12-2022 and to transfer them to the category of university lecturers with the right to develop then to assistant teachers. And by a law that you also referred to, he joined them in lecturer applications positions while maintaining the right by a doctorate to join university lecturers. Mr Delis, I would like to ask you if, first of all, you agree with these practices. Whether or not the permanent posts of teachers and teachers in universities should be carried out by such arrangements or open procedures. I shall return to that in my dentistry. In this case, however, there are issues which are both equitable and well-functioning. Why is it equal? First, because it would be unfair whether or not it would be subject to the provisions depending on the date of the judgment. Secondly, well-functioning because former TEI teachers have already entered these regulations, they are already serving at universities and produce work. We therefore consider it reasonable to settle the matter for both reasons. Our intention is to take the necessary steps to resolve the issue. So you urged, Mr. Delis, to say that the purpose of these people is to be fired. They won't be fired. We'll settle the matter. But I will return to my second language on the question of how teaching staff should be recruited at universities. I would like to hear your opinion on this, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Madam President. I overtake the issue of recruitment of LPIS members. I do not think you need to comment on how little these announcements are - they are not recruitment - of the twenty-two members for a large university such as the University of West Attica, which has very serious problems and a strong staff shortage. The students' mobilizations, before the quarantine began, were particularly large. We'd expect to hear what you're going to do. What do you mean when you say you're going to settle the matter? If, however, you are asking us whether we agree with such arrangements, our position, Mr Secretary, is that workers in education, health, everywhere, must have a permanent and stable job. In this sense, we are against any hostage, every slavery, in any flexible relationship of work. And, of course, it is our position that those who have this status as a tyre worker, the contractor, should all be permanent now. Of course we agreed and voted for this provision. Alas. In fact, we were all saying that all workers would automatically acquire this permanentity in their employment relationship. Is that too much? Or do you think it's bad. In any case, on the issues of equality and the proper functioning of the universities you have raised, I do not understand what you want to say. The permanentisation, the placement of these people, which are not very few, can be done by exploiting or applying better Article 20 of Law 4452, I do not think it constitutes a violation of the isology or of proper functioning. I mean, it's done in a very legitimate way. But what do we have, Mr. Undersecretary? And I think we should talk about the substance and avoid legal arguments. Is it or not in progress, Mr Secretary, in the field of education - and not only, but in all branches and all places - a process of dismantling labour relations? Is a process of commercialising education in general or not? The answer is, of course, 'yes', regardless of the governments, which come and go. And this is not an invention of the Greek governments, it is a direction - and you know it very well - of the European Union. This is the whole substance and philosophy of the single area of higher education in the European Union, where, of course, it is understood in this single area that permanent work is seen as a sin, there must be a flexible teaching staff, which will be hired on the subject and on the time that other major business groups will define, such as good time - or rather bad time - are doing a number of business groups at the University of Western Attica, who have come to prepare up to the training programme of these schools. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In any case, the opinion of the Legal Council of the State is of the opinion that it opens the door to redundancies, Mr Secretary of State. We say that and we expect to be disproved from the reality of both of you. Apart from the fact that if these people leave, they will intensify the phenomenon of university subsistence, this opinion of the Legal Council of State opens up a very dangerous path, opens up the way for redundancies at universities. Because from nowhere, Mr. Secretary, it does not appear that this provision is transitional in law. It was not voted as a transitional one. It's a normal, normal layout and it wasn't even called as a transition. After all, you know that and you too are very well aware, the opinion of the Legal Council of State has not been enforced by universities or by the Ministry. So the Ministry can settle and please clarify what you mean so that these people who are afraid of their own work will be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u265	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u266	So the issue lies in your hands, Mr. Undersecretary, unless you too want to, by adopting this decision to link your name to redundancies at universities for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President. Come on, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Delia, I've told you so in protology, I'll tell you again. These people are not going to be fired. How much cleaner? I said that it would not be right depending on the time when a judicial decision was issued or not to be recruited in a particular post and someone else would not. So I think we're clear about this. Let us also make it clear that the five hundred and fifty seats that I referred to in the prototype are not communications. They are positions which have already been allocated, and universities can proceed to the notices. So we're not talking about announcements, but we're talking about real positions that will serve with the Members' intended procedures - IDUs our universities. I will return to the regulation of the SYRIZA, which you have also voted on. I will say that the educational staff of our universities, Mr Delis, should be elected by open procedures, following invitations, because that is the only way to ensure dignity, transparency and equal opportunities for all our young people, whether they are inside or abroad. In this case, these provisions of the SYRIZA were conceived in a number of simulations, initially in application professor positions, which were then converted into lecturers, regardless of the qualifications and the work. Some may have been hired for EDPS positions and with these SYRIZA regulations they went to the category of application teachers. We must therefore finally agree that recruitment of regular teaching staff at our universities will be carried out under procedures, which are provided for in the institutional framework and not by transitional provisions. However, for the reasons I explained in my protagonist, for reasons of lawlessness and the sake of the well-functioning of universities, there will be equal treatment of all. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the fourth with number 207/30-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The Single Special Professional Peristerium asks for help against the coronary". The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Secretary, the Single Professional Gymnasium - Peristeri Lyceum, the Teachers' Association, the Parents and Wardens' Association and its superiors have informed you since September of the enormous needs that exist, the self-evident needs to remain open. Following both service and non-service streets tried to warn you of what was coming. Schools, as the teachers' association pointed out in one of its letters, must also be open to students and students in a "careful", organised, democratic, pedagogical and secure place. They have asked for nursing staff, educational staff, more rooms, more tours on school buses, substantiating why and relying on and based on what is provided for under the law. The Ministry and the relevant management have been uneasy over these requests. The school's management, having exhausted every other path, sent a document to the Health Department of the Attica, asking for it to do its utmost, among the others, to make a doctor available to make an assessment of the health risk and give appropriate guidance to teachers, as the protocols are to be specified in each unit according to the possibilities and needs. So after all these calls at last on Friday that passed us, molecular testing was carried out on students and teachers and we have more than seven students diagnosed positively on the coronary and an instructor. An entire section of the school has now been closed, while students on the same bus were taken to quarantine. Right now we're in front of the school closure, Madam Secretary. And I really want you to explain why you haven't responded so long, because asking you what to do is in vain. Why have you failed so long, so many months with so early warning with very simple and clear and legitimate measures that I asked you to take?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u272	I am opposed to the reasons for inertia and I will respond with specific elements, as I have done before, Mr Arseni, to a question you have raised again for a school in western Athens, in which you are elected. The reason why they were responded - I repeat - with proof, with evidence, with documentation last time. You are coming back to a point which I would say - I am not in a position to give up anyone - that we all need particular responsibility, especially from people who have a public say. In fact, we all have to be responsible for the continuing operation of the special schools, the school units of special education and education, which are still open and well, because they are at the moment a solution to educational, psychosocial and essential for every family whose child goes to special school and accepts all this multi-modal, multi-purpose support for teaching, psychosocial and all other specialities, for which she receives excellent comments. We must therefore all be serious, and indeed we must speak with evidence. I shall therefore answer specifically what has happened in this school unit. So you say that the Ministry ignored or slipped in terms of applications. What's the reality? The school as regards the special educational and auxiliary staff, the staff to which you refer, had an empty psychologist, covered with intake and an empty school nurse, which could not be paid directly. What for? Not because of the oligopoly as the Ministry, which is unfounded in any case, but because of the exhaustion of the final rating table of the AACC. You know very well that recruitment of assistants of specialist teachers and special assistant staff is done - and must be done - by this table. That painting was exhausted. However, by decision of the Director of Education in Athens, he was also placed in school by the AEDGYL Aigaleo. In fact, I must say that the letter of 23 November from the Teachers' Association on 24 November - and I have the information here - the decision was taken to place the nurse at school. It is very important that we can react immediately, find solutions, even if there are administrative oligopoies, but not because of one's responsibility, but because of the exhaustion of a table. Here too, we must be very specific and very strict in this respect. You're talking in your question about a COVID room that doesn't exist. However, it is available and is used only as a COVID room. There's a couple of professional high school. Indeed, the Education Manager himself called, to substantiate the use of the room itself, that is, the possibility of using the room exclusively as the COVID room. You have also mentioned - if I am not mistaken - in your timely question that the test would only be done to teachers. As he himself, just now you have claimed and it is true, the test was carried out on December 4th and it was done on both teachers and students. Because I don't want to take any more time, I'm gonna use my dentistry time for further evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, but you don't have the right evidence. I'm just going to read the letter you received. "Our school has no schools since the beginning of the current school year nurses, at least two on the basis of the number of pupils, despite the information of the relevant heads and teachers. Our students and students are treated at more than 60% - we are talking about a special school, Mrs. Undersecretary - while their daily lives include self-harmfulness, micro-accidents and psychosomatic symptoms. Our school doesn't have a COVID room, though. A small isolated, next to the elevator, with donor-aid equipment - in this one you mention - a room that would serve as a steadfast school. The space since September has been requested by the school-driven for teaching and so students and students who are ill, smashing feet, etc., are in the hallways or in the yard among others. The number of pupils and pupils per department is in the majority the maximum permitted for the kind of school, nine pupils. In the case of division of sections due to absence or an education disease, it shall be fourteen. This, together with the fact that there are rooms with a small capacity of about twenty-five square feet, increases the risk of transmission of the virus." There are too many more requests. Also, let me remind you that the thirty - five children of the school have so far taken them to the same bus, with three thick routes, and that at this special school, of the thirty - nine teachers, the thirteen are on leave of special purpose. That's the situation you want to look forward to, Madam Secretary. I don't honor you. It would be more honorable to apologize, say it was your fault and see if it can be saved even now. I would expect that, as any parent and citizen of Peristeri would expect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u276	Mr Arseni, what I would also expect is for you to understand what I am bringing to the House and bring them to the House, not just because I want to outsmart a situation, because this is where our teachers, our children and their parents live in every school room that is currently in place. So what honors public dialogue and what honors the parliamentary process is to understand the facts. So when I mention that the list of school nurses has been exhausted, it means that the list of school nurses has been exhausted. There is a procedure that you may not have to know. I, however, have to tell you that school nurses, like all teachers, specialist and assistant staff, choose areas where they choose, are placed. The fact that the Directorate of Third Athens was able to react immediately - and I congratulate her on the immediate response in this regard - is a good example, if you like, of how we should all function. As, too, when you talk about the issue of children in the room I have the full development of children in each room. It's seven, eight, nine kids. When we are also saying about the use of school buses, I would remind you that all that we are living at the moment, the content of the actions and of the specific and general education programmes, are those which have been proposed by the Committee of Experts. They have been presented to the full development and full development of all the modalities of the schools and we have received approval from them. We wouldn't jeopardize any child and no teacher in these unprecedented pandemic conditions. On the contrary, we have presented, in every detail, to the respective panel of specialists, pneumonologists, pediatricians, entrepreneurs, how special school works, how children go there. We have already sent instructions for safe operation, with the protocols that apply in any case separately, with the possibility of using the mask and other details, so that we can make the operation of schools safe. What has he certified the safe operation of schools? The evidence we have so far. Already schools have been operating since 14 September and there is a very small number, very small percentage - around a community - you can see that there is a second wave, and that is still a spectacle - of schools that we are told to be not the focal points of the virus. We're not experts to present these. We must not extinguish and not underestimate a situation! The situation tells us our schools are safe. We already said that EOGY went there and did control over young and old, teachers and children. The school's still running. When a department needs to be closed, it'll close. The protocol will be implemented and I call on those who are listening at the moment, the training staff, but also the co-operating regional health directorates, to implement the protocols as we have been applying until now, so that we can all function safely, the maximum degree of safety that we can achieve. However, I would also like to be specific figures in support of the specific schools and the area in which you are elected, namely West Athens. We should give for a few numbers. 2018-2019 was the last year of the previous government, a hundred and ninety-seven alternates were recruited in special education. In 2019-2020, two hundred seventy-seven-six were hired. This year we are already moving in a number that is more than two hundred six and still has not been closed the year - that was the central one I told you before - and we have already appointed teachers, specialist teachers and special assistant staff all over Greece for the first time. Especially in the area of 3rd Athens, the assignments amounted to a hundred thirteen persons. It is very important for special education and training for children to have a stable interlocutor, their teachers and special assistants, because another relationship is being built which is particularly useful for children. The staffing took place early, it started at the end of August. It's never happened before. For the first time, the teachers went directly to schools, Mr Arseni, and not to the training department to win this year. They are small - small steps which, however, help multiplierly to improve conditions in the public school. As I said, protocols have been sent in time, namely protocols and instructions for each school. We also sent special advice and guidance on how distance learning takes place in special education and with the help of the ERCS, as well as the help of the EDS. I've already mentioned what has been done generally in special treatment. Over four and a half thousand people were appointed for the first time after ten years and we already have a record of deputy recruitment. I believe that at the end of the year we would count a record, in fact, of subsistence recruitment in special education, but also of teachers who were helping our children with special educational needs in general education. So all of this destroys the complaints about people neglecting, not caring or showing this self-evident special interest in special education, but also in all schools, wherever they are. We are here to improve things, obviously, and to improve possibly also oligopoies. However, this is not a case of oligopoly. These are reactions to things that are obviously dynamic. We are here, then, to react and heal them if necessary. However, I presented the information on what happened especially at this school and what we intend to do to improve, as I said, school life at every school, wherever our children are in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, too, Mrs. Undersecretary. We now move on to the debate of the sixth under number 208/30-11-2020 on a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Nine feminists and family Hunter: Antidemocratic government catastrophe and status violence". Mr Arseni's timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, after the international outcry, Minister Chrysochoidis apologized for the eleven arrests of feminists and solidarity. You returned the fines to the eight. The rest of them, of course, are still waiting. We'd like to know what's going to happen. The Minister mentioned in his announcement today to the four injured policemen. We really need to arrest those who committed violence with the police. What, though, will you do for those who tortured inside the Lydia Kats police department because she went to give help to her tied father, who had a heart attack and dragged from the hair to the stairs and happened all the other things that have been reported? What are you going to do about the violence against students and students in Ioannina? The legal association is talking about ruthless provocations and arrests in conditions of provocative violation of health protocols. Yesterday, while Mr. Papapas escaped you, you arrested Mr. Kabayannis and Mr. Papadakis, the prosecutors at the trial of the Golden Dawn and your lawyers accused you of hurting the core of the rule of law, as you arrested lawyers in service, along with Mr. Rizzo, Zanette, Argyri, Aslanides, Kotsoudakis, doctors and health workers who lost their shift and perhaps died of it. You are talking about legality when for five hours you have asked yourself, Mr. Secretary - you personally! - by the police and their chiefs not to allow me the autopsy in the sixty-two arrested in the GDR - and we have seen the reason why the photographs of congression in the GDR broke into GDR, where they were on each other - while you had allowed another MP to visit the prisoners, who were in the same process just in Peter Rallie. You have hostaged the site of the assassination of Alexis Gregoriopoulou, where you made arrests yesterday and you proceed to arrest today. You've already shut down the entire area and people are trapped in the apartments, because you want to move on to arrest. What's going to happen, Undersecretary? Is it unbaptised? If you're not a police officer, will you no longer be able to approach the place that Alexis Gregoropoulos was murdered? You know what? The lawsuits are gonna fall rain. But you use police officers as a shield instead of protecting them, as you say, instead of taking responsibility, because you personally do the micro-management. Citizens may have to sue the police when you and the Minister have done the micro-management. And I experienced all this yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, I will not follow you to this slippery categorical and respecting the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny, I will confine myself to answering the basis of this question you have addressed. Very briefly, I will tell you that lawyers do not enjoy immunity too. There is democracy in our country, isology and isopoliticalism. Make sure you know what is true of lawyers and do not get carried away by certain announcements that do not correspond to reality. Just lawyers - to know - are not driven to the lighthouse. And they're arrested when they commit offences and felonies against them. They're just avenged on the basis of the special corporation they enjoy. We are divided a few days from the events to which this topical question refers and it is necessary to give a detailed account of what has actually been unfolded, both in Sepolis and in the Constitution and in the city of Ioannina. We pass on to those who systematically treat with characteristic lightness concepts and terms such as the word'regulatory', failing to understand how harmful these references work in public dialogue, particularly in a confessed, extremely difficult period for all the citizens of our country. We consciously refuse to observe hazelnut claims, as they are reflected by public positions for alleged administration and guidance of the Greek Police by the government and especially in the exercise of violence. Such considerations - we insist - do not match public debate and political confrontation in a modern European country of the 21st century. During the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, a meeting of members of feminist organisations was held with information to talk about participation in it and members of the anarchist site. The supervising officer along with the police ombudsman attempted to inform both the organizer and the intentions of the gathered women, and the number of participants who were to come, but no results. It is worth noting that this meeting had not even been notified under the existing legislation. Every initiative of the police forces has had one single purpose, avoiding a large number of centralised individuals at this point. It is also noted that this incident was handled by the Greek Police under the continuous information and guidance of the Prosecutors of Athens, as is provided for in the current legislation. Therefore, following instructions from the competent judicial officer, it was initially recommended that the participants should be removed, while they were checked in accordance with the provisions on COVID-19. It was then requested by the nine assembled to leave without any result again, and people who were constantly joining the view of the police were constantly coming. The appeals to the Police Department of the Constitution, which were made in part by applying the criminal procedure for violating the article on disease prevention, were followed, in conjunction with the provisions on emergency measures to protect public health. Finally, after a case-file was formed, they were all released on the basis of an appeal and were imposed on them by an administrative fine of EUR 300 per person for illegal movement. For the events that you mentioned in Sepolis on the occasion of the Polytechnic anniversary, I would like to point out that everything started when a group of people attacked the Sepulia metro station with stones on the police force of the "DRANS" group. The consequence of this was the injury of two policemen to whom first aid was provided after being transferred to a hospital. The attackers escaped, except for one who was arrested externally of a multi-built building and was then brought to the Cologne Police Department and then to the State Security Sub-address, where a case-file was formed for physical damage, disobedience, resistance, domestic peace disruption, violation of arms law, violation of provisions of COVID -19. He was attacked about forty people at the A.T. Cologne, where they deceived, devoured and attempted to hurt the policemen there. The result of this crusade act was four people, two of whom were familiar with the persons of the abovementioned arrested, and they were arrested and a legal document was formed against them for a number of illegal acts. One of them was finally released for health reasons on the basis of an order of appeal, while the others were taken the next day before the competent prosecutor and then released until their regular jurisdiction. Finally, a preliminary administrative examination has been ordered by e-mail, with the possibility of expanding a sworn administrative examination, while at the same time informing the Citizens' Ombudsman on grounds of competence as a national arbitrary investigation body. However, no mention and substantial condemnation are made of such actions, when forty people organized are going to attack the police station, acts unacceptable in the context of our parliamentary democracy. To conclude my initial position, I would also like to refer to the events that took place in the city of Ioannina, where we had such incidents. The police intervened and arrested people on the basis of and the prosecution orders, filed proceedings and submitted to the competent prosecutor for the further actions. At the same time, however, arbitrariness which has been reported by police officers is undergoing disciplinary review and also forms a case-file in order to account for responsibilities if and wherever they exist. However, this is the procedure provided for in an orderly state and we respect human rights with great piety and respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u282	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, you get the Minister's apologies back. With what you said today, you are taking back the Minister's apologies to the eleven arrested, ten women and a fellow man. Look, the events with the Katsus family are obviously very different from what you described. However, I will describe the point when, in other words, Fifty-year-old Dimitris Katsis felt discomfort and fainted. He had a heart attack. As his wife denounces, they did not immediately remove the handcuffs. They kept him tied up for a long time, making it difficult for the doctor, who was on the spot and asked for the cuffs to come out. A corresponding delay occurred later when the ambulance arrived, which the police wouldn't let go because they didn't find the father's identity, resulting in a delay of fifteen minutes. Look, since your tactics are always throwing all this at the police, it is clear that the police implement the spirit of your orders. Likewise yesterday, as you remember very well, the man who was arrested and had sugar from morning of arrest until night did not have his medications and only when I personally took them away from you. You had another person to suffer epilepsy on the sixth floor, a man who had no history of epilepsy. Those were the circumstances. He's been fasting and thirsty since the morning you arrested him, because he was just walking on the street, without going to any point, without having raped or resisted any police force. Because these are the orders you give. It is disgraceful twelve years after the murder of Alexis Gregoropoulos that you have not eliminated the conditions that could be repeated and with your own political mandate to create the conditions that could be repeated! How far are we when we have a heart attack, a epilepsy and a man not to take his medicines and have sugar when in the GDR, which you keep them every sixty, you don't have a doctor and you deliberately? Because you want impoverishment, you want intimidation through impoverishment. And there's no policeman coming in there, it's your political command and the Minister, Mr. Secretary. You stacked them on the buses. You stacked them in the temporary detention area and then asked them to do rapid test. That's the situation, that's your hypocrisy! This is the impoverishment of the human personality you submit to anyone in your hands! And you deliberately do it to intimidate. We invite you to change your course, because what you are doing is a wound to democracy and do something too dangerous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you only have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of restitutional violence in a mature democracy, such as Greek, at the heart of Europe, does of course not exist. The prohibitions and exceptional measures to limit the spread of pandemic in our country, of course, are to some extent affecting individual freedoms and civil rights, but in no case in Greece, as in the rest of Europe and the West, we have no suspension of the Constitution and the basic laws. Democracy in Greece since the implementation of the emergency measures is not here. It is at least politically and constitutionally unsuccessful to launch unreasonable accusations within Parliament that the Ministry's political leadership or the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police issue orders or proceeds in behind-the-scenes recommendations to the Police Directorates for the use of excessive violence or violation of the fundamental principles of the Constitution. It is, in fact, regrettable that you are showing yourself to the Greek police officer. The men and women of the Greek Police are now in the series about the first lines of the collective battle for the recovery of COVID -19. They are also constantly trying to implement protection measures, which the orderly democratic state decides and the overwhelming majority of citizens in a spirit of collective vulnerability. You're talking about specific cases for which I've been placed with regard to their parameters in my prototype. On the basis of these complaints, you are making the point of talking about status of violence and compensation. It is obviously your mood, Mr Arsenis, to present the forces of the Greek Police as an army of occupation and to present the forces of the Greek police. It is obvious that the aggressive one - and I would say - and your resentment against the orderly state. Even the Minister's political apologies to limit the political manifestation of feminists due to the pandemic, you present it with a lasting slandering distortion of its meaning. Our aim and problem is to implement the measures and restrictions due to COVID on the basis of the equality and equality of citizens. For example, yesterday was not only a day of remembrance for Gregorios, but also the feast of Agios Nikolaos, the protector of the seamen. Some twenty regions of the country celebrate him as a politician. How, then, can we, on the one hand, have closed churches and a ban on functions and ceremonies and, on the other, some on the left ask for political demonstrations in Exarcheia? How can it be possible, on the one hand, to impose fines on individual citizens for irregular movement and, on the other hand, to hold gatherings and political commemoration events? How do you want the police to function in this context? Two meters and two stations? Others in the hospital are dying, our fellow citizens, our relatives, friends. ICUs are besieged. I therefore urge all of us to be lifted to the extent of the circumstances, to avoid this small political championship. Mr Arseni, I have to assure you that you are living and acting politically within the framework of a fully coordinated parliamentary democracy. If in some cases there are cases of extreme violence or inappropriate behaviour of police officers, they shall be audited by institutional and administrative bodies, as specified by the orderly framework of operation and ethics of the Greek Police. And other than COVID -19 and its consequences for the whole planet no threat exists for the collective security of our organised society and the constitutionally guaranteed rights of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. It will now be discussed the first under number 195/23-11-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Annulment of the branch of the National Bank in the Philistines Thesprotia". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u286	Mr Secretary-General, I also convey to you today's procedure the question which in recent days has been in the minds and lips of several of my fellow citizens about the closure of the National Bank of Philiattes. I come, Mr. Undersecretary, directly from the Aristotle Thesprotia, next to Albania's border and before I started, I visited the Municipality of Philiattes to discuss with my compatriots. I heard the complaint from a grandparent who said to me: "My, after the closure of the tax office, the IKA, the OTE, a few years ago, of Piraeus Bank a year ago, do we now have to suffer the closure of the last store throughout the city of Philiattes? You must go to Athens and bring us a good hamper." And what's hamberry, Mr. Undersecretary? A good news. I met the butcher, the manaves, and they told me that by the closure they would lose their clientele. Pensioners, producers, entrepreneurs, professionals, local authorities, mayor, local bodies, express their protests, which I present in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Yoyakas, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They wonder why it closes the only bank shop in a municipality with the largest geographical area, with seventy two communities, which in most cases are located in mountain and remote areas. They wonder how in a town with a hospital, camp, a farm centre, a centre for citrus crops, there will be no bank for the day-to-day operation. They wonder how they will do their jobs if the last service point in the region is lost. We ask them, Mr Secretary, to take a taxi to go to Igoumenitsa, since many villages and settlements are not even served by mass transport. And we ask who? From low pensioners, who make them marginally or from elderly people, who are anyway difficult to make many moves, or are we asking for web banking people who are not related to new technologies or live in areas with a problematic telecommunications network? Minister, I address you, asking you to exercise your institutional role towards the Financial Stability Fund, which is the main shareholder of the National Bank, so that the only branch of a bank in the Municipality of Philiattes will continue to operate as it has ever done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u288	Madam President, thank you, as well as the honourable Member, Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas, for his question. As you know, I have already shown clear interest and personal interest and all the sensitivities I have for this region. I would like to say that the government is aware of the concerns of the citizens, we are aware of the difficulties caused by the closure of branches and obviously in this important remote region, but also in other parts of the country, and we are particularly concerned about the anguish of local communities. In recent times, as you know, banks have been forced to enter a reorganisation framework, precisely to reduce their operating costs, so that they can survive and, above all, provide better services. However, I would like us to be as realistic as possible in the circumstances and together to look for the best solutions. And what do I mean? On the one hand, we have the purely business decisions that are made on the basis of the business planning of each bank, that is, we have the data that are evolving. We have the Ministry of Finance, which, as you know, does not have the direct power to intervene in the business plans of banks or other private enterprises, nor does it, of course, have the power to supervise the European Supervisor in Frankfurt and the non-systemic Bank of Greece for the systemic banks. However, what is our role? We monitor very carefully, as you know about these issues, the proper functioning of the banking system. We are particularly aware of your sensitivity, especially in such cases as well as the practical difficulties for the bank's citizens and clients, particularly when it comes to regions that are remote and border regions. And I'd like to say what we're doing. You know very well, we've addressed the banks themselves. We have received their answers - which you have at your disposal - and we are dealing with this as seriously as possible. Here I would like to say that the answers, which I think are quite important, show that there is indeed a closure of branches of banks, but this is a limited number of branches in general. In particular, as regards the branch in the Philadelphia, the bank informs us that it maintains an ATM machine in the area, which also accepts deposits and, above all, commits that, in order to serve the citizens, it develops and cooperates now with local stores in order to function as payment points for accounts and other services. They also assure us that more than 95% of normal transactions can now be done using technology and without even requiring the physical presence. It is true and we know that in this bad crisis we are going through, we have had to and have learned to use too many digital techniques, which we had to bear in mind beforehand. It obviously needs a greater familiarity, and it seems that if someone tries four five times, then it may well do the transaction itself. Of course, we know that the whole population is not competent, as are the advocates, and there are the weak ones. And they are mostly in our care and minds. Again, I would like to say that we are taking care as a ministry and as a government to ensure that citizens also have access to banking work, whether they are in towns, villages or in isolated mountain areas, particularly there at the border. And I would like to say to you, Mr Papoutsis, that we believe, especially at this stage, that it is important for local society to stand on its feet. It is not a way of saying, we believe, because that is where the most critical economic, political and democracy cell in our country is likely to be. If the project does not work in local society, it cannot succeed on a larger scale. That is why I would like to say that we also have a number of important actions. Who are these? We are in constant contact with the Association of Greek Banks and, as you rightly said, with the Financial Stability Fund, which is the largest shareholder of the four systemic banks, in order to ensure, as far as possible, the uninterrupted service of citizens for safe banking. It is something that we are taking care of, that is something we are insisting on, and that is something that I think we can have. In conclusion, I would like to say that even if a branch is closed, we need to ensure that the best possible methods are realistically found so that all citizens can be served. And here, as I mentioned to you, we have the opportunity to have the ATMs, to have four banks left just one ATM, wanting to make an economy, but even if that is not enough, to tell them - and I think we will insist - that there are mobile workshops, which at least twice a week can go on the ground and cover the small range of those needs of our fellow citizens, who - rightly so said - cannot take a taxi or move, go to another point, so that they can serve these needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Undersecretary, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u290	I'm stopping here, Madam President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u291	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u292	Mr Secretary, I must confess to your interest in this matter. I understand, however, that banks have entered into a struggle for mass contraction of their shops to reduce operating costs and improve their financial results. We know that such an effort depends first of all on the reduction in red loans that have so far remained at a fairly high level. Indeed, I cannot know what this branch is being closed with. I know, however, that we are talking about a branch with four staff and deposits of EUR 40 million, some of which are economies of our fellow compatriots who have been hosted since the 1960s in Germany, Australia and other foreign countries. I am also aware, Mr Secretary-General, that shops in the same bank in neighbouring prefectures with significantly less deposits and operations are still in operation - and they are doing well - perhaps for similar reasons to those for which we are calling for the store to remain in the city of the Philiattes. Besides, here we are not talking about a municipality where they will continue to operate normally one and two banking shops in one of its two or three towns. We are talking about a municipality that will be without a branch and will soon be brought by Mr. Theodorikos and we will make him "superactive". Transactionrs should therefore have additional time, money and trouble to serve. Those who live in mountain and remote villages, the older and helpless, will have to face another difficulty in their already difficult everyday life. So let us not condemn these people, these regions in social and economic isolation. Even if one could hear a business logic behind this decision, he would be looking to see a sample of social sensitivity and social responsibility from a bank based not only on the money of its clients but also on all the taxpayers. I would remind you of the statements made by our Prime Minister Mr Mitsotakis in support of the border regions and I expect, Mr Secretary - with respect and love - to take this seriously, at least, all those who are called upon to take their final decisions into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u294	Yes, Madam President, thank you very much. I would like to say again that the government's sensitivity to border regions and to local society is expressed at every opportunity and as you quite rightly referred to the statement made by our Prime Minister. I would also like to see to it that we look at the realistic possibilities of finding solutions that are satisfactory to the local society at this very moment. But I would also like to take account of the fact that we are on the path of the economy and society, which is very much determined by the developments that are taking place in technology as well. And in particular, as you know, with the recent crisis too many more transactions and other work are done via the Internet and via mobile phones. In any case, the digital transition is a great feature of the major sectors currently taking place in the economy. Our Government has set it exactly as one of the top priorities, if you want, and you have seen to what extent the digitisation of the state helps the Greek citizen, how short the procedures, the suffering, how immediate the possibility of offering services that once were unthinkable. I would like to say that we are embracing precisely this trend, but we do not forget at the same time that, as I said, we should ensure care for customers regardless of age, regardless of familiarity with technology. That is why I am saying again that despite any business and business plans of the banks, we are making clear new tools accessible to all citizens. And I say again, three main priorities, which I think could, in the first instance, be a clear substitute for services in this case also in your region: firstly, it is the possibility of setting up common ATMs between the various banks, but without any additional charges, so that customers of two, three, four banks can be served, at least one single ATM, without any other charge being imposed. Secondly, there is the possibility that banks will use and use it, in cooperation with other local branches, to also operate as billing points. Thirdly, I am referring again to the possibility, which we will also press, as you know, and will also take place in your area and, where necessary, to the establishment of mobile ATM workshops, which will be transported at least twice a week from region to region. There is therefore a series of technical solutions which are possible. I do not want to go any further, to talk about the government's sensitivity in this area, which, as you know for a year now, has set as the top priority the reduction of red loans, i.e. this tough, the chaos of the banking system, so that it can very soon, free of this, play its real role, which is financing the real economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises, and especially the border regions. You will remember, Mr Papoutsis, that we have also passed the microfinance law. It was our concern for all those who are excluded from the banking system so that they can access the funding they need for their jobs. I will stop here, Madam President, and I think I may have the opportunity to answer the next questions on the issues raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. We move on to the third with number 211/30-11-2020, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on "The closure of bank shops". The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will also answer. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, we have heard the answer to the question, to the anxiety that the Member of the region has brought here. It has to be said that the banking groups, which have uncovered billions of state subsidies for their recapitalisation, which devour homes of the people's family, who expensively charge internet services, come and close branches and even in border areas, are sacking workers. They have announced that they will close forty-one stores at the National Bank and forty-five stores at Piraeus Bank throughout Greece. Most of them are shops located, as I said, in remote border areas, in islands and in provincial cities remote from the capitals of the prefectures. The other two so-called system banks, Alpha Bank and Eurobank, have proceeded in a corresponding close of stores. This timely policy of banks on the basis of data from the Federation of Banking Officials has reduced the network of stores by 50% and employment by 34.3% in the last decade. Workers of these stores will have to choose to work in other prefectures and work miles away from home, change the object of work that may mean wage reductions, deep intensification and targeting. They are under unbearable pressure to take part in the 'elections', or they will be put on holiday, with a possible prospect of dismissal. Already, Piraeus Bank began to inform it that it will put about 40 employees working in these shops in the summer, and they have not yet agreed to participate in their voluntary dismissal, as we call it. The closure of the pandemic shops, which should avoid crowding, will create additional problems in the nearby bank shops. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Furthermore, serious problems - I shall end, Madam President - face pensioners, farmers, fishermen and other microprofessionals, who are neither familiar with electronic banking nor with frequent travel to other cities. That is why we are asking you what measures you intend to take to ensure that banks do not shut down the shops, particularly in the period of the economic crisis and the pandemic, do not lose their working, wage or insurance right for workers and that the pressures they are taking on them in the voluntary service programme, much more so that workers who are not willing to take part in voluntary work are not made available. The world must continue to be served by these branches, mainly farmers, old people, pensioners, farmers and fishermen, residents of surrounding areas. We're waiting for specific answers, Mr. Undersecretary. We believe the government has responsibilities. It's not all the market's fault. The government has made a lot of contribution to the recapitalisation of the banks. Of course, the people paid for all this recapitalization.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes. Don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u298	Thank you very much. I would say first of all that we obviously know in the previous years that the Greek taxpayer's money has been recapitalisationed. That is why the government is very serious about issues relating to the banking sector and is trying in time - a record to make areas and reforms, which will enable the banks once again to play their part, just serving the public interest and providing the funding needed by the real economy, especially those who are the most vulnerable and the most vulnerable. I would like to say again that we must bear in mind that the phenomenon of the closure of branches is not something particularly Greek. It is, of course, happening here on a very small scale. You will see that the most careful of you today that the biggest French bank closes six hundred branches. These are other scales, other dimensions, for other countries. However, I would like to say that it is a wider phenomenon, which is affecting technology and competition. In particular, it is essential to adapt all businesses, particularly banks, to these conditions. But that does not mean again that we must not have the necessary sensitivities. As I have said, we are ensuring that there can be the best substitutes for that necessary service supply in the most remote and particularly border regions in the manners mentioned above. However, I would like to say as far as the workers are concerned that we are also very sensitive to these issues. We have been asking and assured by the banks you mentioned that, following an agreement with OTO, those from branches who have submitted requests are in the process of claiming candidates for one of the available jobs, while those who are not selected or who have not applied for will be exploited to cover jobs, for which there have been insufficient requests for coverage. Those who have not been posted after the completion of the above will be placed on the basis of the Bank's needs at centralised units. Even if no employee redundancy issue has arisen so far, we are watching it. As far as matters relating to the protection of the banking system and in particular of the charges and other matters we have discussed are concerned, I would like to say that in the next few days a provision on regulation of interbank procurement for card-based payment transactions will come to the House to ensure that users' rights are fully guaranteed and that sanctions are imposed where the relevant provisions are violated. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Madam President, just a minute, please. We will also bring to the House a provision which ensures that the electronic payment framework within the Member States of the European Union is properly supervised to ensure that operators are protected. I would like to say again that we are doing everything possible, with the greatest sensitivity - and in particular social - in this critical area, to succeed in reforms, to be able to get the banking system back on its feet so that the legitimate objective, which is to finance the real economy, is important, necessary for any growth and, in particular, for any prosperity. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u299	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u300	It is well known that the banking groups are large companies with an inter-industrial activity and, of course, it is - to say so - a state in a state and you can only serve their designs and needs. In December 2019, the Bank of Greece made its report on financial stability for banks. That seems clearly to be the objective of this modernisation of the banks. It says that the operating costs have further declined, mainly due to the continued contraction of the staff and the shop network. This mentions attributes the Bank of Greece's report. As a result, operating costs were increased in the first half of 2019 and the effectiveness index improved. The closure of shops and the continuing reduction of staff are the main source for strengthening the bank's operational profits in current conditions, and this is why they have been regularly regular over the past decade. According to data from the Hellenic Banking Union, in 2009 the banks had four thousand, sixty three shops and employed sixty-sixteen thousand ninety-sixty employees, while in 2019 they had only one thousand eighty-eighty eighty-eight shops and thirty-seven thousand seventy-seven forty-four employees. In other words, Mr. Secretary, shops reduced by 55.7% and staff by 43.65%. As I told you in the question, the designs are the ones we told you. Forty-four shops are closed by the National Bank, forty-five Piraeus, by seven hundred fifty employees, Eurobank has decreased - they have actually been fired - Alpha Bank has also transferred hundreds of employees to other companies. Of course, extortion and pressure on workers, Mr. Secretary, are day-to-day practice in the banks. Voluntary departures, shop closures. We had these in Fairy, in Triangle, where the residents 'watched Thermopylae' and yesterday arrested the President of the Agricultural Association why he protested about the closure of the bank, where? To Fairy! Where you say that people need to be strengthened to stay, have services such that their quality of life is better, do not leave the place. And yet, you close the banks. It is your responsibility, of course in the rest of the region. We believe that the problems that will arise are enormous. It can't be, Mr. Undersecretary. You're gonna have to take lessons. Pick up all the older people in the area and teach them lessons how to go to ATMs, how to use the card. But is that possible now? What's this? How's it going to happen? Everyone must have a man next to him. You know very well that border regions have mostly elderly people. They have - if you like - residents who have not dealt with these new products, the Internet - to say so - a procedure. What are they gonna do? The cost of moving them will be huge. They won't be able to serve. So we want you, from the government, to intervene immediately so that this process can be stopped, because it is, of course, a process which wants to increase the profits of the banks at the expense of the people and against the workers who will either be made redundant by voluntary, etc., or going to other departments with a reduction in wages, with other employment relationships. This will be evolution, and this will not be a good thing. This development is negative and the government must take measures, otherwise it will have the great responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u302	Madam President, I would like to clarify that when we talk about new technologies, about digital transactions, they obviously concern the largest part of the population, which is familiar or familiar with it. We are fully aware, however, that there is a part of the population - particularly in favour and others - which is very difficult at this stage to adapt to these new conditions. That is why we call on the banks to have as many service offering as possible, which is exactly what these sections of the population are looking at. That is why I said that there are two ways at the moment: on the one hand, the substitution of a commercial store, on the other hand, where the transaction and deposit and takeover takes place, which they do and assure us that the banks will do so, so that even those who have an impossibility to use the new means may resort to it and, on the other, the possibility of mobile ATTM workshops, so that, once or twice a week, they can go to the villages, the communities, the towns where there is a population that cannot move or use new technologies. I would also say that, as I have explained to you, we do not have any important 'paraguad'. There is the possibility of voluntary expenses, and I think - with exceptional circumstances at the moment - that the officials and the others know very well - and so there is no particular concern about the issues of workers so far. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that the government's sensitivity has been repeatedly shown by the constant, ever-increasing and record-driven reforms it makes, primarily in terms of serving the citizen again, with the systemic reduction of the greatest stress in red loans. In one year's time, Mr Papoutsis, we have managed to reduce red loans by 50%, having not even used one euro of the Greek taxpayer. This has never been the case in any reform anywhere. Why are we doing this? We do so because we believe that the Greek and the real economy will be able to benefit. That is why we passed here with the votes of the majority in the House and the micro-credits law - you know that very well - to get those who are excluded from the banking system to have access to even little funding. The social sensitivity of the government and the banking sector - like everyone else - is practical, and is done every day. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-07-S1-commons.u304	With the consent of this House at 20.41 to the sitting next Wednesday, 9 December 2020, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and legislative debate, and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
