ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 5-10-2020, the minutes of its 2nd session of Monday, 5 October 2020, with regard to the election of the Quaestors and Secretaries of the House were ratified by the Bureau.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendment of Law 4557/2018 (A 139) on the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing — Incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/843 (L156) and of Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2019/2177 (L334)’. The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting on 1 October 2020, to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and amendments. The record will be free. The registration system will be opened as soon as Mr Keletsis, the general rapporteur of the New Democracy, reaches the stage and will be closed once Mr.Tryphotos Alexiadis, the general rapporteur from SYRIZA, comes down from Step. I imagine there is no objection. Mr Tsakalotos, as a parliamentary representative, asked me for permission - and I give it to Mr Tsakalotos, and so is the case for anyone else who might want to speak - for two or three minutes to say something, regardless of the bill, because of the forthcoming decision tomorrow from the Golden Dawn trial. Mr. Chakallato, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point the Members of SYRIZA raise by hand signs with sketches and capital letters of the Greek alphabet]] It is something that I think will 'take you' and you and all colleagues from all sides of Parliament. Tomorrow's not a normal day. Tomorrow is a very important day for democracy in our country, in Europe, worldwide. Some people will say that legislative power must not interfere in court. But there are days, there are times when no one can remain silent. There must be justice tomorrow for Paul Bridge. There must be justice tomorrow for Egyptian fishermen. There must be justice tomorrow for the U.S. trade unions. All these immigrants, who throughout Europe are victims of Nazi criminal activity, must be justified tomorrow. Mr President, the eight Jewish MPs who lost their lives in Auschwitz and the other Nazi hangers must be entitled to all those who wore a yellow star, all those who wore a red or pink triangle. Tomorrow's not a day like all the others. All Europe is looking at us. He's looking at us to give a blow to Nazism, and I'm sure everyone in here wants a hit on Nazism, because we all say fascism again, never Nazism again. We can never silence ourselves at such a juncture. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u3	Have a seat, gentlemen. Your protest is obvious. I shall take the turn of all the parliamentary representatives and ask who wants to speak. Of course before I begin, I think I can express the unanimous condemnation of the Plenary Assembly of the desecration of the Jewish cemetery yesterday by those who did it. In turn, therefore, Mr Lebanese has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I fully agree with Mr Tsakalotos and with his position, representing the SYRIZA party in the Greek Parliament today. Obviously the New Democracy, since its birth, has been throughout it, is today and will be in the future in every form of fascism. We condemned and fought both inside and outside the House this abortion of the Golden Dawn in all ways. When the New Democracy along with the PASOK was in the government, he did what he had to do to bring these criminals to prison. She supported when she needed justice to go ahead with her work. The whole democratic world, the whole democratic arch, we're all together in this race. We have created - and we will maintain it - a wall of democracy against fascism, against Nazism. In any case, we have complete confidence in justice. We think he'll do the right thing. But in addition, politically, we condemn the Golden Dawn not only for the murder of Paul Physsa, not only for the attacks on Greek citizens and immigrants, not only on the attacks on PAME, but also condemn it for its operative position to seek to murder our own democracy. So we have all built a democratic wall together. This democratic wall will keep it up and we will be together in the common fight against Nazism, against fascism, against totalitarianism and in favour of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u6	We welcome the initiative of SYRIZA and, in particular, of his parliamentary representative, Mr Tsakalotou, to make this recommendation here today. I would like to remind you, Mr President - not to you, but to those who listen to us outside this Chamber and perhaps do not remember - that the term 'democratic arch' has been forged in this House in 2012 at the initiative of Vangelis Venizelos, President of PASOK, and that was what almost all the parties of the Greek Parliament were. I say 'nearly everything' because it was just after the Golden Dawn. We have followed all developments since the assassination of Paul Kryssa and then, from very close as a political party and our executives from the front line. We are that party that participates in an effort made by the entire Greek society to be the day of the trial, the day that the memory of the murder will be alive, the memory of the killer alive. For many times, Mr President, in criminal law, we see that the picture is vivid, the picture is intense, a few days after a murder, but at the time when justice is being given the murder has been forgotten. The work of the lawyers, the work of the judge, the work of the prosecutor is inside the courtroom to keep the image of the murder alive, the image of the crime alive and justice is awarded. We have taken initiatives with Mrs Gennamas at all levels on this issue, and we have taken a relevant initiative tomorrow. We're in front of the fight against fascism. We're in front of the fight against Nazism. We are in front of the struggle for the non-revival of these phenomena that have troubled humanity. Mr Chakalotos has done very well, and you, and the whole House, I think, have condemned and denounced this barbaric action at the Jewish cemetery. I would like to close my speech, Mr President, as a professor of constitutional law with one point. Decisions are taken by the courts, not by political parties, not by parliaments, not by trade unions. Mr President, with horror, I imagine a society that we, the parties, and the officials of other parties and other people, will decide on what will happen to their lives and their personal freedom. I therefore believe that we are dealing with these issues with faith in justice. We do not want to influence as a Parliament under any circumstances the decision of the judges. The judges are independent and will be judged in the oath they have given, in the Constitution and in this regard in accordance with the strict rules of Criminal Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u7	We proceed with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasio Pafili.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u8	It is popular demand that Nazi criminals enter prison, be sentenced to maximum sentences and not on the basis of the inadmissible proposal of the prosecutor, Mr. Adamania Economou. It doesn't fit here, Mr. Loverdo, not to interfere. I repeat, they must not be condemned to the inadmissible proposal of the prosecutor who acquits the Golden Dawn and adopts all her arguments - for those who have followed the trial - as if he were a member of the Golden Dawn. What the Chrysayites said to defend - what to defend - that is, murderers are - themselves, adopted everything in her speech. The world, the workers, the families of the victims - because of course Paul Bryssa is first of all, but there are others who have been attacked, stabbing, terrorism, wood, murdering attacks - all of them, but most of all the Greek people are well aware of what fascism is going to say, which all of Greece is broken with crosses and blood from the murderous action of those who never hesitate to admit that they are the heirs and the defeaters of 1945, that is, they are fascists of a thousand, but because, once again, they are cowards, they have never been able to admit it in here. Therefore, we as a Communist Party of Greece do not want to advertise it, but we were the first to open a war both in the House and outside the House. Let no one - I do not want to remind you - that when we told them that it was fascist - Nazi organization, I almost had the floor removed from anyone who was presided over at that time, that the action of the Golden Dawn was also underestimated by other political parties. So now we have come to the end of this trial and the beginning of other things to be done. That's why we're saying it's demanding that they be condemned, because they're murderers, and they're murderers because they're Nazis, because their ideology is the most inhumane, the most darkest human being ever. And it's not time we shared responsibility for the delay of five and a half years for the Golden Dawn trial. We will all be there tomorrow, there will be huge mobilisation by mass operators. Of course we will. And in the Chamber we will be here to express this opinion, and here there is no 'no influence'. What does it mean, "do not affect"? Where does justice work, in the air? What's wrong with the gospels? There's a whole society. Isn't it taught to the universities that the judge should be judged on the basis of law, but also on social criteria? So we say that another decision will be unacceptable and we will fight it with all our forces together with the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u9	We move to the Parliamentary Representative from the Greek Solution, Mr. Heta. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I think we are ready to live the end of a very dark chapter, both in our country's political life and in our society. In a democratic country like Greece they do not fit such nazi and fascist cultures. In fact, we are very happy to wait for this story to end tomorrow and for everyone to be exemplified, but society, which on the part of individual responsibility has a very serious role to play, which has put these fascists, the Nazis, within the National Representation, but also the political system of the country, which has allowed - perhaps with its bad function, I do not know - and has actually led a part of Greek citizens and voters, Mr President, to this incredible choice, the fascist - Nazis, which is Golden Dawn. Because of Nazism and fascism many peoples have suffered in the world. In Greece, in the cradle of democracy, these fascists don't fit in these structures. Of course we're against Nazism. And justice is part of society, it is not affected by anyone, but it disgusts society and cannot, while the Greeks are kneeled not to show its most severe face to "people" - anyway, in or out of import - who serve Nazism and fascism. We hope in our country that we do not have to live like this again, in the seven years that were in Parliament as well. We are lucky that we were not at that time really to live all this. I think it is time for all the political parties to take action and to safeguard - if you like - our democracy and the rights of the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u11	Good. And we close with Mrs Fotini Bakadima, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I think we all agree - and that was reflected in the position of colleagues - that Nazism will find us all to the contrary, all united in defending democracy. The fact that the Golden Dawn is not at this moment in the House should surely make us happy. The bet nevertheless remains to remain, to keep it out, and we should all contribute - and I agree with Mr Lebanese - to create a wall that will keep it outside, both the Golden Dawn and any steep motif of it arises or has arisen. From there on, I will also agree with Mr Pafilis that we will all be there tomorrow and of course welcome the SYRIZA initiative on behalf of and by the mouth of Mr Tsakalotou. We will all be there, not because we want to influence justice, we will all be there, because as representatives of the Greek people in Parliament we must express his will. Greek citizens over the years have shown and they have kept the memory of Paul Bridge and all the other people who have fallen victim to the Nazism of the Golden Dawn and its fascism in recent years. They kept memory alive, thought alive, picture alive, struggle alive. We must therefore be there to support them. We must bring in and express their will within Parliament. And we must not forget to ask for justice and not forget for a moment - given the whole history of our country, all the resistance that the Greeks organized and demonstrated during the German occupation - that we have a history to defend. Fascism has no place in our country, does not have a fascist party - a motto in the Greek Parliament. But, from there on, the Greek citizens want justice, they want Paul Bryssas to be vindicated, they want his mother, a mother who has taken all this pain herself, and that is why we will all be there tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u13	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u15	You want to talk about another thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u16	No, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u17	On behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u19	Here, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that Mr Tsakalotou's report touches important, sensitive strings for those who have lived on our toes in previous decades fascism within that country and know what it means. I would like to say that the government condemns both the phenomenon of fascism and the phenomenon of Nazism and the phenomenon of anti-Semitism. However - and here I agree with Mr Loverdos - there are distinct roles in a democracy. Parliament, the National Representation, where the heart of democracy is actually beating, can shut down and send out its messages. It's his supreme obligation. Nevertheless, justice should remain independent. It is justice that makes it possible to operate a favoured democratic state. It should be distracted and operating with its basic rules to deliver what it knows best than anyone else, without intervention. The government has repeatedly condemned the matter of the Golden Dawn. It was the Government of the New Democracy that faced the previous years, as you know very well, effectively the phenomenon of the Golden Dawn. The fight against Nazism, fascism, anti-Semitism is something that needs constant vigilance. It's not just ending with a conviction. It takes day-to-day work and the first and most important messages I think they are always given through this Chamber. I would also like to remember the famous work by Albert Camy, the 'Panukla', which in its last paragraph refers to the pit of the plague. The plague crisis may have passed, but there's still in the books, there's still in the cloths, and one day it may come back into a happy state, as it says. The message is great for both us and our people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u21	Good. I call on the rapporteur-General of the New Democracy, Mr Stavros Keletsis. Please open the registration system. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u22	It is clear, Mr President, that the condemnation at political and ideological level of fascism and Nazism, as well as the political practices and practices that we have seen in Greece for years, should be applied by the specific structure that expressed it and expressed it in our country. But we must say - and I will stand up to this, the Minister said so - that democracy has rules and principles. And one of the basic principles of democracy is the separation of powers. Justice is an independent power, a pillar of democracy. Of course, expressing political condemnation of such extreme ideologies is a matter of politics, but I feel that talking one day before the judiciary takes a decision on a particular case and - in any case - shows that we are exerting a pressure as a Parliament, I think it is a form of intervention, which I do not know whether or not and to what extent it is permissible. To God, I strongly condemn these practices and ideological extremities, but criminal offences, criminal behaviour will be judged by the courts and the decision to the first degree will be respected and the second degree is also there, of course. And as unequivocal as our condemnation of these kinds of ideologies, fascism and Nazism, I believe that the same is our condemnation - and it is, I believe, by all political forces - and terrorism, Mr President. And so I am making a bridge with the issue of the bill to which I shall refer. The draft law which I am proposing today deals exactly with the phenomenon of terrorist financing, the phenomenon of which has been afflicting our country for years, which has left wounds still open to the body of Greece and whose remembrances are still very recent. Just a few days ago, we had the sad anniversary of the male murder of Paul Bakoyannis, a politician working for national reconciliation and the cooperation of political forces, regardless of ideological and political differences. Despite the time-consuming successes of ELAS, the fact that a new yoke has just been discovered and another terrorist group has been dismantled shows that the phenomenon still remains in our country, while terrorist strikes in recent years in European countries have concerned Europe and signalled alarm. As is apparent from all the relevant reports by the United Nations, Interpol and Europol, there are strong, close ties and convergence between the groups of organised crime and terrorist groups in order to achieve their aims. In the meantime, the rapid development of the technologies used by these groups, the new possibilities and products of the financial system, the virtual or digital currencies that have already appeared - I would remind you that in September, the European Central Bank called for the commercialisation of the digital euro - the new practices applied by these groups, as well as the gaps found in recent years in the financial system, have led Europe again to discuss a more organised, more powerful, more shielded framework, which will most effectively address the illegal influx of foreign, unknown origin, funds in European countries' markets and terrorist financing, a framework that will shield Europe's financial systems and financial stability. All this has imposed the need to strengthen the institutional legal framework in order to prevent and combat these phenomena at European Union level. The use of the financial system in order to legitimise criminal revenue and finance terrorism, as well as the shortcomings in the existing institutional regime, have highlighted the need to increase the overall transparency and security of the economic and financial environment of Europe. So addressing these phenomena can only be effective if our financial system is properly shielded with new security controls to prevent criminals from using it. In addition, some modern technology services are becoming more and more popular as alternative financial systems and remain outside existing legislation to date or benefit from exceptions, from legal requirements that now need to be abolished and regulated. Thus, the European Union initially transposed this Directive into Greek law by 849/2015. It is the basic legal framework that we have to date, which concerns the fight against money laundering and the fight against terrorist financing. Meanwhile, developments in international economic crime cases, new terrorist attacks and weaknesses identified due to technological developments and new opportunities on the markets in financial instruments, led the whole of Europe to go ahead with the amendment of the fourth directive by the additional directive, namely 843/2018. The previous ones of 2018, 2013 and 2009 were thus amended. Incorporating this directive, which is being implemented in the current draft law, is an important step. Of course, the problem is always in progress, it's not over. The countries of the European Union are still in negotiations today in order to establish a European regulation, which will be adopted by all European countries, which is expected in the first half of 2021, and thus to have a new legal framework for the whole of the European Union, which will not require its incorporation into national law. Therefore, this draft law incorporates into Greek legislation this last directive of 2018, namely the fifth Directive and Article 3 of Directive 2177/2019 on related issues of counter-terrorism. The aim is not only to identify and retrospectively address these illegal actions and to money laundering, but also to prevent and prevent the future. So not just effective retrospectively, but prevention. This objective is achieved with a combination of measures, in particular by strengthening and transparency. Thus, this draft law and the directive incorporating increases transparency in the procedures for financial transactions, but also in the corporate and other legal entities that can become vehicles for money laundering or terrorist financing. The obligation to register in the central register of actual beneficiaries of companies or other legal entities, as well as the obligation on the obliged persons by law to provide all necessary compliance information in the legal framework on a daily basis, is extended. Access to the Central Register is facilitated, i.e. accurately up-to-date information, regarding the actual beneficiary of companies and legal entities for the first time, not only by legal persons, but also by citizens, i.e. individuals, who have a proven legal interest, who, after proving them and at the request, may have access to the information. Cooperation between the competent authorities involved at national and European level shall be facilitated through access to the registers and information. Safety criteria and controls are laid down in respect of trade between and with third countries that the European Commission is characterising as high-risk. Limits are laid down in the anonymity surrounding digital currency, digital wallet custody services and prepaid cards. The scope of Law 4557/18 is extended to the category of persons liable for the exchange of foreign exchange services between fictitious currencies and filing currencies, as well as digital purse guard service providers. The obligation to register shall be introduced. Responsibilities for keeping the register and monitoring of the issues of money laundering and terrorist financing are conferred on the Securities and Exchange Committee. The framework for the protection of individuals, workers and persons liable for possible infringements of the law shall be strengthened and appropriate internal mechanisms and procedures shall be established. In short, citizens who know good information about illegal activities are encouraged to denounce them at the beginning. The system of bank accounts and payment accounts is defined as a centralised electronic data recovery mechanism for the verification of persons holding or controlling bank accounts and other banking products. Access to the system is granted to the authorities responsible under the law. The specific tasks and responsibilities which constitute the statutory public function, by joint decision of the Minister of Finance and the President of the Parliament, are identified following a recommendation from the Special Office of the Parliamentary Statements Control Committee. With reference to the articles, I shall refer to the most important. Article 5 defines the competent authorities overseeing the persons liable and is the Article which stipulates that the Securities and Exchange Committee for Economic Currency Services and Documentary Currency and Numerical Portfolio Guard Services is the competent audit authority. Article 6 defines the central coordinating body as the Ministry of Finance with the Directorate for Financial Policy. It is recommended to the Ministry of Finance that, in accordance with Article 7, the Strategy Committee on combating money laundering and terrorist financing and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is set up. In Article 8, there is special provision for prepaid cards, and the choice of the legislature is that they should be accepted up to a very small amount if they have been issued to debtors within the European Union. Article 13 describes the cross-border response relationships and the increased measures in force in these cases because they will relate, where relevant, to high-risk third countries. With Article 14 there is precisely the provision for the definition of the precise tasks and the responsibilities of those exercising a public office. Article 16 creates an obligation for companies to keep their register with the information and to register them in the Central Register of Real Rights. The same article provides for access to the register for the purposes of transparency with regard to information and to citizens, provided that there is a legitimate interest and a notice of appeal. I will not go into the other articles. I think that in the whole bill it is obvious that we are taking a huge step with what is anticipated, and that is very quickly in line with the past with the rest of Europe. We are taking a very important step towards dealing with the phenomenon of money laundering and terrorist financing, a phenomenon that, as I said at the outset, has been so tempted by our country. At the same time, however, we are strengthening and shielding our financial system against these illegitimate phenomena and ensuring the financial stability of the country. You realise that, when you have a secure financial system, it makes sense, both markets and foreign major investors, to see the country with another eye, feel that they have a safe country in which they can invest. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to vote on the draft law which I recommend today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Wednesday 7 October 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Stavros Arachovitis, Member of the Radical Left, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Friend Support measures in the regions affected by the cyclone 'January'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr Apostolos Pana to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To a dead end the producers of edible olive and olive oil of Halkidiki and all of the country due to the pandemic and the sharp decrease in the price of the product." 3. The 23/5-10-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Antagonism of the Municipality of Aristotle on Regional Unity (IP) of Halkidiki". 4. The 15/5-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "A cleaner per school is not enough to deal with the pandemic." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Theodoras Jakri, Member of Parliament, under number 10/5-10-2020, of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Theodoras, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Reimbursement of peaches producers for the damage caused by the bad weather'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 14/5-10-2020 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "What is the evolution of the implementation of the measures and actions announced on 19 June 2020 for the development of the State Institute of Bytina?" 3. The 25/5-10-2020 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Inappropriate housing for the Special Workshop for Vocational Training in Cordelio of Regional Unity (IP) Thessaloniki". 4. The question by No 26/5-10-2020 of the Member of the Messinia Coalition of the Radical Left, Alexandros (Alexis) Gifting to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "No progress in completing the tender procedure for the development and completion of the Philitrian Frame". 5. The 28/5-10-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Support measures and exceptional financial support for the beekeepers of Crete". The general rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Tyrevos Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would not mention again the question that Mr Tsakalotos described with complete political adequacy, and I think with a very strong message the House was referring to, but I was truly impressed by the position of the previous rapporteur in the New Democracy and his reference to 'pressure exercise' as a Parliament. I think that the reference made by the relevant Minister, which I think to the government, to the risk of the plague microbe that is going to appear, covers everything. So I do not understand this sensitivity to the fact that we are not putting pressure on each other. The House today has sent a strong message on a political issue and on a subject that has troubled justice for too many criminals and a number of other issues. So I do not understand this sensitivity when, over the past period of economic crime, corruption of political persons, fraudulent pressures have been exerted on judicial officers, witnesses, threats, intimidation, etc. But let us overcome this and come to the glorious role of proposing the bill. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, our rapporteur, Mr Symmarelene, has analysed the full positions of our party - an article, at the four meetings and placed it on all these issues. I don't have much to add. Besides, this draft law is incorporated into the fifth anti-money laundering directive and amendments are introduced to Law 4557/2018, which is also the main national legislation. I would remind you that this law was passed on to the government of SYRIZA. This SYRIZA administration has done something good, despite what you blamed us for what we did in the Ministry of Finance. This is where I'm gonna open a parentheses so we can relax a little bit. Let us know, Minister, if the information is true that you will bring in a bill in the next few years which will impose a tax such as these taxes that you accused SYRIZA, these twenty-nine 'unjust taxes', so that we know what is happening and whether or not this information is valid. With regard to the draft law, I would like to say that it is very important to strengthen these legislative provisions, it is very important to strengthen the framework, but it is important to see what mechanisms and supervisory authorities are doing. As our rapporteur told the Committee on Economic Affairs, there must be a wider exchange of data between regulatory, judicial and police authorities. In Europe there are more than fifty authorities supervising money laundering and terrorist financing. The European Commission will propose a single supervisory authority at European Union level in 2021. You are fully aware of the delay. However, I would like to point out another one - let me say it as kindly as I can - Parliamentary inconsistency. It is a parliamentary indiscretion in the sense that we, as left-wingers, when conducting a dialogue - both in society and in Parliament - are raising issues and we are waiting fundamentally for answers when certain issues are purely technical. We are not saying that you will inform us with your rapporteurs of the incorporation of the Treaties on the Prespecies Agreement. We're not talking about that, revealing these very difficult secrets. However, our rapporteur has asked the committees specific questions about what the Greco Group says and what you have done with the release of assets. He asked specific questions about the competent income law authority, its results, the course to combat black money, the number of petitions and the results of complaints. These are specific questions which were not answered from your side. Also, we are surprised to see - and I hope your position will disprove me - that once again the Scientific Service of Parliament has done an amazing job with regard to this bill, in which you had time to read it and do the corrections, and so far in the text that has been distributed, no corrections have been made. Some corrections are really unworthy of being discussed at parliament level, because they should already have been settled. When, for example, it says in point IV, ‘237B PK’ must be replaced by ‘396 PK’, why in the New Criminal Code private bribery is standardised in Article 396, that will not be corrected? Or later it says that item X should be deleted, because the article 351 PK has been repealed in the New Criminal Code. Excuse me, but are we going to discuss this in Parliament? I'm making a request. It's just technical issues. Solve them, deal them and move them down. But let us come to the essence of the bill. The bill, as I have said before, is a bill which, of course, we supported in the Committee on Economic Affairs, because we consider it to be a continuation of our legislative work, despite what was then being heard by the opposition. In this bill we are discussing how we need to strengthen our institutional framework on a very serious issue. You know, these words can't be made in empty air, they can't be done without discussing and what SYRIZA did as government and what he inherited in 2015 and what he delivered in 2019 and what you did. We cannot discuss this bill and we cannot discuss it and there are no answers through this bill in the European Commission report on the state of the rule of law in the European Union. I therefore read from the 'Lawspot.gr' concrete figures, and I hope there will be answers, because they relate to the bill and we cannot discuss in general and in vaguely as if there are no such findings when they are made by a European Commission institution. The first point - I will say twice and you will understand why: 'There are some questions about the effectiveness of the rules aimed at ensuring transparency in the ownership of the media'. I'll say it again. ‘There are some questions about the effectiveness of rules aimed at ensuring transparency in the ownership of media’. And I'm not saying it to make it easier for the practicers, who do a great job and a good job for their patience and effectiveness and speed, I'm not saying it for that. I say this because it will not be heard anywhere else, as you can see, on some channel of what is affected by this provision or the media, which for obvious reasons are working on the bottom-up filters and not going through any of these issues. It also states in the same report: ‘The exercise of pressure or influence by interest groups in Greece remains largely unregulated and the framework for the protection of witnesses of the public interest is incomplete’. So this top issue is coming, which has emerged in the past time, both in our country and globally and is being raised through this bill. And I ask you, and I ask you, to make a decision, because we are prepared to vote in favour and support the bill, but you will be clear on the part of the government. We understand that there is a line that puts some of its left and some of its right. Its left is Faltsiani, that is, those who want to reveal the elements of the so-called Lagard list, the Borgians list, and all these officials, the executives, who sometimes decide to denounce economic crime, that is to say, decide to be "law and order". They're on one side. And on the other hand, it is those who are with the economic criminals, with the tax-gunkers, the smugglers, those who want this peculiar entrepreneurship, and unfortunately we also have such cases in Greece. So what the New Democracy needs to answer clearly is: Is it in favour of strengthening or weakening the institution of the protected witnesses? And you need to answer it, because what you have done in the past period and what you have heard outrageously from your executives is asking questions. I would remind you, especially in the oldest in the Chamber, that the institutional framework for witnesses of the public interest, for anonymous complaints to tax services, for the protection of complainants, etc., existed before the SYRIZA. Just when this framework, which you - and you did well to legislate - came and touched in particular politically or other officials, you said: 'What are these? Hands off from us." This is the old logic that some legislate for others, not for us. So here you must answer, as you must reply to another question, which I mentioned at the outset. The New Democracy threatens witnesses, i.e. threatens witnesses in the public interest. The New Democracy, through its specific officials and ministers, threatens judicial officers, threatens control mechanisms. Instead of strengthening and telling a bravo to those who sit day - night to combine evidence and reveal corrupt politicians, economic crimes, smuggling, corruption, etc., threaten them from above! There, therefore, the New Democracy must respond because it does not want law and order, because it wants its own laws, because it wants its own order. And we come to Article 28. In Article 28, which is essential to our attitude, there is a mystery and you need to reveal it. In Law 4557/2018, Article 18 provided for a specific process of support, coverage of executives, officials of these bodies who would at some point try to disclose or anonymise certain elements. That's a very good arrangement, then. In the bill you posted in this consultation, that provision existed! In the bill you bring for vote this provision has been removed! So I ask you directly, and if you have an answer, please answer me and now: Who in the consultation asked to be removed? If not requested by any body in the consultation, what undertaking, which bank, who was involved by those who had an obligation under the law, asked for this provision to be removed? It's a top political issue, you won't get over it with your polite silence or in any other way. I do not want to blame you personally, Minister, for such a provision, but you have to answer it, because it will determine our overall position on the issue of the bill on what position you take on this issue. In conclusion, because I want to respect the time for other Members to be able to speak at ease, I would like to refer to another matter. We are discussing economic crime today. There cannot be a speech on the issues of economic crime and there is no mention, which ends up with a question and requires a response from the New Democracy to what the New Democracy has done in the time when it was a government on economic crime, because some questions have to be answered. Why have you exempted bankers who were in the investigation of justice for economic crimes, not with an institutional framework voted by SYRIZA, but with an institutional framework that existed before? Why did you bring this provision? Why have you transformed a procedure that was only prosecuted after the bank's administration had been indicted, i.e. in substantial limitations? I do not want to hear that you did this to relieve bank executives associated with loans to your own banks or other wicked loans. And the second point to which you must give an answer is as follows. You say you bring a bill and all those nice words about hunting tax evasion, smuggling, economic crime, etc. So, explain to us why you brought the asset release provision when someone is controlled for economic crime in the eighteenth month? Why have you changed the Criminal Code so as to make it difficult for the work of auditing mechanisms and judicial officers and to facilitate those who violate law and order? You have been denounced even by the FINANCIAL TIMES and you cannot remain silent and say that nothing is wrong. You should give an answer or take it back. Because you know very well that New Democracy has very competent executives in the Ministry of Finance - although I hear that you have not even trusted them - who can tell you that, in many cases, it takes years to end the audit procedure of the audit mechanisms which have been subject to preliminary investigation on the basis of an appeal order and then that the rest of the procedure has been followed in justice. They're heavy political questions. I understand that you are being disturbed by some expressions, but they are the softest I can find on such matters. We're waiting for your answers. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis, for the consistency in your time. Prepare the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Katrinis, and close the registration system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first like to join with my fellow Members in addressing the Nazi structures that threaten democratic freedoms, human life and dignity. Democracy responds, promotes laws and justice at the same time as expelling from public life practices and behaviour that offend us all. Of course, like all colleagues, I have complete confidence in the crisis in Greek justice. Minister, I will start my position on a matter which concerns thousands of our fellow citizens, and of course I am referring to the retrospectives that you have tried to present in various ways over the previous period. You initially called it compliance with judicial decisions, which in practice is undone by the legislative arrangements you brought at the end of July and today, since you do not apply the judgment as a whole. Then you baptized it "political decision" to show your supposed desire to strengthen pensioners. And do the low pensioners, especially the farmers in Elias and Phthytotida, where Mr Stagioras is elected and throughout the province: were they not part of the political decision of the Government of New Democracy? Don't they finally fit into any political decision by the Mitsotakis Government? Three weeks ago the Prime Minister himself baptized the payment of retroactive pensioners as one of the twelve measures to stimulate liquidity. No matter how many times you have announced the same measure, the reality is one: with an attempt of social automation the government gives pensioners part of what they are entitled to, by making substantial cuts, at the same time as you send them a ultimatum that you either take what you are given or go to the courts. Looks like you're accustomed to ultimatum. After the Prime Minister's ultimatum to the citizens for the pandemic, after Mrs Kerameo's ultimatum to the students on the situation in schools, you too come today with this amendment to send a ultimatum to the pensioners. So this government that sends a ultimatum is the same government that has abolished the protection of the first home for vulnerable borrowers, protection brought back by banks, by voting for the Bridge programme, which is now being extended for a month and which does not support weak borrowers, but rather supports the effort not to have any further red loans. I would like to ask you, Minister, what is all this about? Because on pages 4 and 5 of the amendment you tabled, you say that there is no additional financial burden on the General Accounting Report and the Special Report. On page 8, however, in the evaluation and report of general consequences, you say that it creates an additional financial burden. Decide what's going on. It is the same government that allows them to share 7-8 billion via banks in only twenty thousand companies that meet banking criteria, excluding 90% of active VAT in the country. What's the result? Be the same companies that will receive money from TEIX II and the Guarantee Fund. At the same time, more than a hundred and fifty thousand businesses are conspiring to share the 3.5-4 billion as a whole of the repayable advance, when at the same time we have a turnover drop of 50 billion in 2020, according to the previous statements by the CEO of the National Bank. And, of course, it is the same government that insists on regulating 12 and twenty-four instalments for outstanding debts to the public and the funds, when the whole market calls for long-term arrangements so that it can finally stand up. It is the same government that refuses to see the reality of red loans that will increase by at least 10 billion due to COVID -19 and insists on the "Hercules" titration scheme when at European level the idea of a bad bank and more efficient management has matured. And, of course, it is the same government that, in the preliminary draft budget just presented yesterday, provides for a growth of 7.5% in 2021, based on uncertain expectations for the elimination of the pandemic's economic impact and huge influx of Community funds, while providing for a spectacular increase in revenue, with reduced rates on the lower incomes declared over the last fifteen years. If you manage this equation and solve it, you really will have to be awarded Nobel Economics. It is the same government that continues to table amendments a few hours before the debate, as much as some, such as Amendment No 492 on building two rapid patrols and completing operations in submarines, are correct. It is something we have asked for, and of course we will vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen, combating money laundering is a difficult issue. Our topicality keeps reminding us of it, since it is often the cases of large financial institutions involved in the movement of suspect funds. Let us not forget that the terrorist attacks on the Twin Towers in 2001 had been financed through institutional financial channels. In the next few years and despite the international alarm, the illegitimate activities continued, along with the revelations - Panama Papers, Luanda Papers - but also a few days before the disclosure of suspect funds over $2 billion in eighteen years with the involvement of large banks such as Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan, HSBC and others. This is a matter of a strong political dimension since there is a involvement of Russian and Ukrainian oligarchs, family enrichment, such as Erdogan family, breaking sanctions in Iran, Taliban funding, cooperation of political people and the international banking elite. One feels anger if one remembers the deposit haircut that Eurogroup imposed on Cyprus a few years ago, punishing the Cypriot banking system, at the same time that top European banks have never been censored to facilitate illegal activities. The legislation promoted by the European Union to combat money laundering in recent years is ongoing with Regulation 847/2015 and the so-called Fourth Directive, the fifth directive that we are incorporating today in national legislation, and the sixth directive on which the Ministry has rightly set up a legislative committee. The draft basic instrument under discussion is the powerful supervisory mechanism through the expansion of cooperation between competent bodies and the extension of access to files and data. It remains, of course, a question of whether the Committee on the capital market will ultimately be able to respond to this role without appropriate infrastructure and skilled staff, which the President of the Commission himself pointed out. As is still a question of the fact that the relevant Anti-Counterfeiting Authority of Criminal Income has so far not demonstrated any successful attempt to detect terrorists using encryption or prepaid cards, due to the lack of such an institutional framework, as Mrs Zaire said, the President of the competent authority. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the transparency of the economic and financial environment of the Union requires specific measures, such as establishing criteria for transactions with high-risk third countries, limiting anonymity, strengthening cooperation between the competent authorities, but also the intensity of supervision. By incorporating the fifth directive, in addition to identifying and investigating it, there is also a need to prevent money laundering. Restriction of the anonymity of transactions, strengthening access to all registries and information held by obliged persons, addressing regulatory and technical issues, such as the need for access to accurate and up-to-date information, and providing for the adoption of a list of important public functions and specific tasks and responsibilities for identifying politically exposed persons. You remember, Minister, the specific remarks we made in committee too. At the same time, of course, with what we are discussing and today we are dominating in this House, new methods of crime are constantly developing and the system, despite its improvements, proves to be inadequately shielded. Our vigilance must be lasting especially on the so-called dark Internet. And that is not an expression from a police novel or a mystery story, but it is a reality where electronic crime and illegality are reigning, which no longer know national borders. According to the ‘CHAINANALYSIS’ survey, transactions with bitcoin on the dark internet were ejected from 250 million dollars in 2012 to 1 billion dollars in 2019. The FBI's attempt to decrypt Tor Servers and monitor Silk Road website 2.0 revealed hundreds of thousands of drug buyers and other illegal substances and thousands of traders with hundreds of millions of dollars traded. This, of course, has a particular value, because at the same time it seems that illegal transactions using encryption are decreasing, transactions with digital currencies on the dark internet are increasing. It is characteristic that the European Central Bank is now officially adopting the position that digital currencies are threatening the national economies and the stability of financial systems. That is why it is geared to the adoption of the digital euro, with the aim of protecting Europe and the emergence of digital currencies that are constantly expanding to electronic commerce and payments and, of course, the fight against activities related to all these illegal activities. Digital monopolies threaten European financial, economic and political sovereignty. And in the face of the danger that one of the digital currencies will evolve into an international instrument of transactions displacement of national currencies, the European Central Bank shows the digital euro as a secure and reliable digital currency. Ladies and gentlemen, only in 2010 Greece was treated as a high-risk country in the area we are debating today. But with the initiatives of the PASOK government, the country came out of this process and the blacklist. These are initiatives bold, but also decisive, such as the special annual tax of 15% on the value of offshore real estate, such as the removal of banking confidentiality, such as the extension of the list of crimes being investigated for money laundering, such as the establishment of the financial prosecutor, with too many cases that have so far seen the light of publicity, such as, of course, the immunity of the General Secretariat for Information Systems, which promoted all major tax and customs systems. These and many other institutional measures, which have been introduced and implemented, have strengthened our national 'arrangement' against money laundering and money laundering. That is why we in the Change Movement are well aware of the need to create a comprehensive framework for combating money laundering, and that is why we are positive about incorporating this directive, which we think will actually contribute to this effort, despite the fact, Minister, as we pointed out in the committee, that the technical and institutional support of the Securities Committee with the relevant staff should already have been provided for, so that what we are voting on today and the sixth directive will soon not be postponed as a result of the bicentennial period of the year, but that we should have direct and tangible results of the fight against this activity. So, as a movement of change, as PASOK, we have left a deposit in this area, because we have in practice been the only political force that has shown institutional consistency and responsibility when both New Democracy and SYRIZA were in operation, promoting the party interest. I do not want to go back to Mr Haloskoufi's decision at the government of Karamanlis, because he was arguing with the person rather than with the policies. We do not like this, of course, but in order to have a clear and fair picture of the actions of each political force in this Chamber. We, away from logic like the previous ones, which we did not adopt nor, of course, went away to obtain temporary party benefits, will continue on the path of responsibility that we have drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, the use of the dark Internet, which is strong and enlarged, shows that even this directive has a limited scope in its implementation to effectively combat money laundering from criminal activities. These are urgent and other legislative initiatives at national level. It is also urgent to extend the directive to further shield the financial system. The Change Movement will vote in favour of strengthening the current framework, as will any other initiative contributing to the fight against money laundering and will contribute actively to the rapid strengthening of supervisory authorities, with a view to the best possible outcome. This attitude is not an opportunity stop and a flag of opportunity for us. It is obviously a start-up and consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u27	Mrs Maria Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, with this draft law, the New Democracy Government has amended in a more reactionary direction Law 4557/2018, which was brought by SYRIZA, both implementing the commitments made by the anti-grass designs of the European Union and other imperialist organisations. It reforms legislation on money laundering and terrorist financing, as it is widely defined by European Union legislation, including any radical thinking, which is the main objective of such legislation. Everyone, however, can easily see the great hypocrisy, both of the government and of the other parties of the Opposition, regarding the control of supposedly black money. You have many times modernised legislation, you have incorporated a number of European directives and all this without result. We incorporate the fifth directive today and it has already been announced that it follows the sixth and seventh, because, as you all admit, whatever measures we are voting on are, in fact, insufficient to combat the black money routes. Why, then, did all these efforts not address the problem? Because such phenomena are fed precisely by the operation of the capitalist system itself. It is the birth of - nourishment of unrelenting competition between the monopolistic groups of free movement of capital for hunting the maximum rate of profit. In fact, in the explanatory statement, in search of the causes of the problem, you are talking about the anonymity of trade. But here too, you only see their limitations. Why do you not ban all these anonymous transactions, when this system considers the operation of offshore companies in tax havens lawful, not only in high-risk third countries, as you call them, countries, but also within the European Union? Aren't the biggest European banks that have been involved at times in black money laundering cases? Is the space also there dark and you can't check their routes? The creation of any control mechanisms, therefore, may sometimes give rise to certain instances of corruption in the context of business competition, but even if you wanted to, it cannot combat these phenomena, because the root that gives rise to them remains intact. Because the free capitalist market dominates, competitiveness, entrepreneurship, in which all of you drink water. These are the 'heathouse' of the collection and rinsing of black money. Thus, such legislation is only the'sheet of figurative' of the system. Because Mr Zavvos made such a hint in the committee, don't tell us now that you would expect the JRC to ask for more stringent checks. Because you know very well what the JRC is asking you to do if you really want to control the business groups, and that's why you're "forgiving indifferent". Bring an arrangement - we challenge you - for the denomination of all shares, the full denomination, without "holes" and "loopholes". Prohibit offshore and the movement of funds through them. You know that everyone who invests their black and white capital in offshore and the tax havens, which you all see, will laugh. They do not even need to develop new inappropriate technological methods to avoid tax. They already enjoy many of the legal taxes, which you have been giving them all governments a great deal of time. Are there not tax exemptions in the amount of billions of shipowners, which often finance serious, but particularly profitable, criminal activities such as drug trafficking, arms and so on? In a lawful way, there is provision for large exterior gold visa or symbolic taxation wallets in order to avoid controls in their country, while fully maintaining an international financial system in which it is known that the anonymity of the account is guaranteed with enough money. That is why we say that it is hypocrisy of those who swear on the free market and the free movement of capital and, on the other hand, pretend that by such legislation they will break the paths of black money and its laundering. But there is also a second more serious aspect of the legislation, the linking up of these control mechanisms to this most famous subject of terrorism, in which a number of reactionary directives of the European Union are dressing up, a concept that becomes elastic in the documents of the European Union, characteristic of the latest wordings on the risk of popular protests, opening up very dangerous roads for which none of you found a talk to lick. We did not expect anything else, of course, since together New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, you have shaped a nightmareic legal framework that can also be exploited against the working people's movement for the reduction of popular freedoms, even criminalising the intention to perform or alleged purposes of financing terrorist acts. It is not a few times that terrorism has been exploited as a means of slandering and suppressing the struggles. There are many examples in this regard in European and international practice. In this light, it is particularly dangerous when this pretext creates a tight grid of controls with unlimited access to personal data and, indeed, at transnational level. It is even attempting to incorporate the relevant Euro-Union directives - as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum - to extend the possibilities for cooperation between stakeholders, as well as for access to registers and available information at European level. We have also referred in detail to the committees in some of the particularly reactionary provisions which, of course, existed in the basic logic of SYRIZA's Law 4557, but many of them in this bill are getting worse. In addition to the fact that it is politically unacceptable to treat mass operators, trade unions and political parties such as capitalist companies, in fact by controlling the basic pillars of the democratic society, as potential suspected entities for money laundering and terrorist financing, but at the same time their subjection to this law cannot find any ground, it is in complete contrast to the strict legislative framework that governs them. They should be excluded from the collective mass and trade union organisations both from the provisions of Article 2 concerning their obligation to declare their representatives in the register of real beneficiaries, but also from the possibility opened by Article of the applicable law for intervention of the State and the authorities in their internal procedures by ministerial decisions setting out how they operate and manage their finances. First of all, the concept of the real beneficiary of the property refers to a natural person on whose behalf an economic transaction or activity is carried out to the actual recipients of benefit that are often hidden behind companies and therefore legal persons. Such a concept of a real beneficiary is not meant for organisations of the labour-people movement, which cannot or must not have individual beneficiaries of any collective property and economic activity. They also have no economic purpose, but are intended to defend the rights and needs of the people. They are collectively audited and audited for their financial activities, including any property relating to subscriptions, membership contributions, etc., any economic activity which only covers the costs of their existence and activity. All mass workers, people's organisations and bodies should therefore not be arrested in the same obligations under the law on businesses without even setting specific criteria, such as the management of Community and state funds, the exercise of de facto economic, commercial activity, for example in a number of non-governmental organisations. In particular, however, for the trade unions of this kind, the activities are explicitly and explicitly excluded from the strict specific legal framework governing them, the trade union law, which lays down, in full detail, the aims, nature, operating and control of the unions. So you cannot hide or invoke the incorporation of the European directive, because their exclusion is imposed by the very legal framework governing them by Mr No 1264/1982. A similar law to the same exhaustive criteria does not exist in other European countries to invoke the similar practice of other countries. Initially the law itself for the purposes of trade unions explicitly prohibits speculative activities. The resources of the trade unions are also referred to restrictively in the law, and it is explicitly provided that any donation or grant is always made by name and is prohibited from receiving contributions and subsidies from employers and their organisations and from party and political organisations. Is this really the case for banning public aid in any form of business or other legal persons of speculative or non-profit, so as to justify being treated in the same legal way? When the trade union law itself says that in the event of the break-up of the trade unions, any property they may not be allowed to share with members, let alone an exclusive beneficiary, but will be automatically passed on to secondary and tertiary trade unions, who is meant to be a real manager of collective property? When the union representatives, the president and their secretary are expressly forbidden to exploit, fruit these assets, so how do you request that they be declared as actual beneficiaries in the register concerned? But above all, you ask the representatives of unions with all the sensitive personal data from the name, birth date and LNG to the address of residence, the telephones and everything else that can be considered as an identifier of their identity - the law provides for further information on the course - to be recorded in a register, freely usable and accessible by the persecutors and other authorities of the country and the European Union. In fact, there is provision for the possibility of even any member of the public having access to this information with a view to a maximum of ten years after they have been dismantled by the trade unions they represent. With these arrangements you are directly changing, you are literally putting a bomb on the foundation of the trade union law that is precisely the protection of trade unions. And because we have heard before that you have all expressed your sensitivity to the separation of powers with regard to the people's demand that criminal Nazi killers of the Golden Dawn be found in prison, where they should have gone many years now - there is no problem distinguishing powers when the law expressly stipulates that only judicial authorities, i.e. the judiciary can control the procedures of unions? How is the executive legality to keep and process a register of trade union representatives? There is no problem here, is there no conflict of powers? We are therefore not the ones who are calling for the exclusion of workers' associations and organisations from the rules of this law. This is imposed by the law itself, but also by the constitution that protects trade union freedom. The regulations of this bill, therefore, not only cannot touch the illegal activities and routes of black money, let alone the roots of these phenomena that they claim to be attempting to combat. But in the way they are implemented, they are finally only useful to serve other confessed and non-targets of the European Union and all urban governments. In other words, they are effective only for greater repression and restriction of popular rights and freedoms. What is being served is not, in fact, transparency, but the competitive interests that are multiplying within the European Union and not just. After all, it is the interests of capital that have sometimes dictated and the funding, equipment, education and support of so-called terrorist organisations. Therefore, all this unacceptable phenomena, such as money laundering, even this financing of terrorism that is inherent in the way the capitalist economy is organised, do not receive corrections to such an economy that is organised on the basis of profit. They only look back on a society where the wealth produced is social property and is protected by the labour force itself carried out by the producers of wealth. So based on all the above, we are voting against this bill. I will only mention, in order not to go far beyond the time, the amendment brought by the Ministry of Labour. We're probably given time after the ministers' presentation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u29	Mrs Konnikas, the Minister will come and you will have the right of the rapporteurs and speakers, after listening to the Minister, to sit down. I'm telling you, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u30	All right, because we know from the outset about its contents, I'll only talk about it, not about the others. We consider the amendment of the Ministry of Labour to be unacceptable, because you continue with public pensions the extortion of pensioners. Not only do you force them to resign from retrospectives before 2015 for the end of the ninth month, that is to say, what you have successively cut them all governments in the years of the memorandum, not only do you not recognise them the possibility of claiming what they are entitled to, but even in the eleventh month, you give it away, with the exception of permits and permits. We are also wondering if this is not a raw intervention by the legislative authority in justice, which has already recognised the beneficiaries of these retroactive measures. We are not going to vote on this blackmail. We ask you to bring in arrangements to give the right to pensioners under public and private law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr Vassiliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, fascism, racism, Nazism and anti-Semitism are the worst thing that can happen in a society and in a country, both for itself and for others. So there is no man in the right sense of the word who does not condemn such criminal phenomena. But all of us must make sure that the conditions are not created. Such conditions are the memoranda and poverty - impoverishment better - that they cause. In this respect, we do not, unfortunately, see to it as much as we should, despite our painful experience as a society and as a parliament. We will now start on the subject from the Minister of Finance's answer to a question by a colleague from the Change Movement, according to which, by the European Commission, the government's measures were EUR 20.4 billion by July 2020. To substantiate, he filed page 33 of the seventh evaluation. However, apart from the fact that the measures mentioned concern almost all of 2020 and not the seven-month period, of course, the following included in the 20,359 billion: First, the repayable advance of EUR 2,861 billion, which is a loan. Secondly, the guarantees of the Development Bank of EUR 2 billion, which are not costs. Thirdly, the financing of the Development Bank in loans to small and medium-sized enterprises of EUR 838 million, which is not also expenditure. Fourthly, an amount of EUR 6,345 billion with the description ‘expected additional value of liquidity measures’, assuming that this is some kind of anticipated leverage, which no one is able to know or to verify. If we now from Table 3.1 of the Seventh Assessment we will submit to the Minutes together with all chapter 3.1 we remove that amount, the sum of EUR 8,315 billion will be left. Of course, on the basis of the preliminary draft budget submitted, the budgetary measures are set at EUR 11,794 billion for 2020, while all together at EUR 21,4 billion, retrospectively and with some other expenditure at EUR 24 billion, but always along with the expected leverage and with the loans, recalling that the Prime Minister had announced months ago EUR 24,5 billion, without mentioning strange leverage. What exactly is the case, that is, if the report of the seventh evaluation or the preliminary draft budget is correct, will in practice be seen. But the scary drop in GDP in the preliminary draft of EUR 170.7 billion from 187,4 billion in 2019, which means a recession of 10%, and even worse is the vertical rise in government debt, central government at 216,2% of GDP from 189,9% earlier, while the General Government in 197,4% from 176,5% in 2019, also the explosive rise in twin deficits, events that make the next memorandum sure, while we had anticipated them precisely in March. In relation to the table submitted by the Minister for Remission in the first half of 2020 of 7.9% of Greece compared to 9% of the Eurozone, 9.3% of Portugal and others, it would be more honorable to mention the different effects of the pandemic per country, but above all to say that Greece's GDP has fallen from 2009 to 2019 in terms of over 30% in terms of the dollar, when the Eurozone has increased, France as well as others, as we will present in the Minutes. It would be preferable to wait for the nine-month period before making such comparisons, since Greece has a failed economic model with great dependence on tourism, the consequences of which mainly appear in the third quarter. Obviously the Minister's intentions are good, but we all know that the way to hell is by flowers. The draft law, as we said in committee, is another application of Community legislation by many who have been adopted and have absolutely nothing to do with Greek reality. In essence, it extends the scope of Law 4557/2018 on money laundering and terrorist financing under Community Directive 2015/849, with the following categories of activities as shown in Article 4: fictitious currency exchange services as well as digital purse custody. After analysing the issue of encryption, the technology on which they are based and the limited size of their market, as well as the fact that for other countries they are a commodity and some money, we stressed that it is not a threat to the financial system, such as many others that exist, including perhaps the largest, bank leveraging loan. In relation to money laundering, we mentioned that the risk is greater in the traditional banking system of central banks, in the sense that this is where major economic crimes are being committed, to large banks. As far as the contents of the bill are concerned, it is as follows: First, it strengthens the information provided by the central register of actual beneficiaries for companies based in Greece and operating in a wide range of transactions used for money laundering, to which virtual currencies are added. Secondly, it enables the national financial intelligence unit, the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities, to have access to a wider range of information, and encourages complaints of infringements. Thirdly, it sets out safety barriers to trade between and from third countries, which the European Commission has identified as 'high risk', of course at the appropriate level. Fourthly, it shall establish bank accounts and payment accounts for the timely access to information on the identity of the holders of bank accounts and payment accounts. Fifthly - and lastly - it provides for closer and more systematic cooperation between the prudential authorities and the relevant supervisory authorities in the fight against money laundering, both among themselves and with the competent European authorities. In this case, the General Accounting Office of the State, as usual, does not have any cost for the bill. However, there will certainly be costs to the Bank of Greece, which is responsible for electronic transactions, as well as to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the fictitious currency exchanges. In any case, what is lacking in the bill is the penalties and means to be used for the investigations it mentions, essentially by entrusting them to further clarifications from the Bank of Greece, which is certainly not able to satisfy us. However, we hope that we will not be used here as an experimental animal for the application of European legislation, as, unfortunately, it happens in many other cases, because as a debt colony we are plunging our heads over and we adopt all the orders given to us, just as they come to us as if Parliament and the government were just a place that is carried from Europe to Greece. In the committees we have analysed one to one of all the articles with questions, with objections and with proposals, stressing that the Securities and Markets Committee has neither the resources nor the know-how to do so, with FOLLI FOLLIE's past scandals. In addition, as we know, while mentioned both by the institutions and by a European Parliament study, it is not possible to monitor the anonymous transactions of encryption, which is obviously the subject of the law. On the other hand, encryption is not the source of evil, and could be used to stimulate liquidity in Greece, which is suffering very much. As we have said, they are also acceptable to the US banks, while they are declared on the IRS. Digital progress does not want the government, the European Union and the BSE? Virtual currencies are part of this progress and of the future. After saying that the protection of personal data is affected everywhere, we disagreed with the role of banks as auditors, saying that the authorisation of bank managers to process and manage personal data to prevent terrorism is particularly concerned with our Article 22. In this respect, it is like using a legitimate reason for unfair action. The right thing to do would be to have some kind of court assistance. Seeing that Article 5 in paragraph 1 abolishes the control of auctions by the Ministry of Finance, we said that this means that it is facilitated to unleash international cords, which is not in any way consistent with the logic of the bill. In relation to Article 19 we expressed our serious reservations about the need for compliance with the categories of persons liable, such as notaries and lawyers, where professional secrecy is violated. We have also said that there are no penalties and penalties in the event of failure. As far as Article 29 is concerned, we have asked what will happen in subsidiaries located in different countries that do not allow information to be exchanged, such as a number of tax havens, which are paradoxically not considered as high-risk third countries by the European Union. As verse 4, simply informs the principle of inability to collect the information, assuming that in this way lawyers are given advice from those who launder money just where to launder them. In Article 30, and in paragraph 1d, we stressed that it is unreasonable that the official of the responsible legal person who omits his intention to report suspected or unusual transactions, since there is no way of proving whether or not he had intentions. Finally, we have said that we are all in favour of combating tax evasion, money laundering and, of course, terrorism, but not only of weak income people and countries, so that they are even more repellent than the rich and powerful states. So it is not possible for Greece to adopt such a directive and, in fact, not the champion of money laundering, Germany, the queen of tax evasion, the Netherlands or the tax haven of Luxembourg. Likewise, the kingdom of corruption, literally, Denmark, which was relatively recently accused of laundering $236 billion in its branch in Estonia - is $236 billion, i.e. more than the annual Greek GDP - and it is a mistake to refer to Estonia, because it is a small country, obviously, since it was the Danish bank, the Danish have done the fraud. On the other hand, large banking machines such as Deutsche Bank, which has been characterised by its own country as a criminal organisation with more than five thousand actions against it and with fines that currently exceed 20 billion dollars. Also, of course, JPMorgan, HSBC and many of these large banks and FED shareholders. Turning off to say this. We have asked the Minister to withdraw the bill, to properly formulate it and to give time to prepare the relevant services, as the committee responsible has proposed. We have been dealing with so many years and we have written so many analyses that allow us to express responsible views. As we have said, the Minister's intentions are certainly good, but it is not only enough to really combat laundering, tax evasion and terrorism, as we all want. Let us not forget how the smuggling of fuel in Greece has not even been combated, despite the fact that it is too easy from its source, from the refineries, obviously not because there are no possibilities or institutions, but because they react to the owners, who finance the governments concerned, which means that the laws are not enough to ensure legality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u33	And we'll close with the special speaker from Mera25 Mr. George Logiadis. Until the Step is cleared, I read the eight first colleagues to speak. These are: Zetta Makri, Georgios Papaleias, Vassilis Kegeroglou, Georgios Vlachos, Konstantinos Zachariadis, George Mulkiotis, Athanasios Lioupis and Constantinos Maravegias. As far as I can see, the Minister has asked about to intervene there, after the Members have spoken a little, unless he wants to speak as soon as the speakers are closed. And, of course, the parliamentary representatives will be able to start after the Minister's speech. Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law refers to the amendment of Law 4557/2018 on the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing, incorporating into Greek legislation of the European Union Directive 2018/843 and of Article 3 of Directive 2019/2177. Let's go on the articles. In Article 2, point (a) (b)(1), the word 'no good grounds' is wrong. Suspects are a pointless term and it's not proof. There is ambiguity that needs to be corrected. In Article 4, in the same way as Article 3, there has been an extension of the persons liable. For example, the problem with brokers concerns the addition, where they become liable, not only for monthly rent real estate, at least EUR 10 000, but also for a total value of EUR 10 000. So whoever sells or intermittents to sell a studio is controlled for money laundering? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Article 5 defines the competent supervisory authorities for the implementation of the Directive, which are seven: the Bank of Greece, the Securities and Market Commission, the Economic Police Directorate of EL.AS, the Accounting Standardisation and Control Committee, the AIAE, the Toy Supervision and Control Committee and the Ministry of Justice. Some of them are independent, such as the Bank of Greece and the AIA. And the question arises how they will be checked and when they will be checked. Of course, we know that the AIA is controlled by the troika, the troika is controlled by Germany, Germany is Chancellor and that is where the huge Wirecard scandal broke out some time ago, as we will see below. Article 5(2) provides that Member States must have adequate financial and technical resources to carry out their tasks. Member States shall ensure that the personnel of those authorities have high integrity and the required qualifications and maintain a high professional level, including in matters of confidentiality, protection and data and rules to address conflicts of interest. And we ask: has this been done with the German Wirecard scandal? Of course not, because the government itself was involved in this. Also, the report by the General Accounting Office of the State states that it does not cost the State. How do these two reconcile in the case of the AIA's Ministry of Justice? Are there not any financial resources, officials, technical instruments, required to implement the audit mechanisms? Politically exposed persons are described in Article 14 and to point out here again that the Chancellor of Germany itself was involved in the scandal of German 'Wirecard', what we said 'teacher and law do not prevail'. In Article 19, it calls for the law to report to directors and employees without delay at first, without mentioning any criteria, but also at the discretion of everyone and regardless of the amount of transactions, with suspicion only. Restoration of other times and attitudes. Paragraph (b) complements the violation of individual rights and the dismantling of the rule of law, where the official who makes a complaint only with suspicion is obliged to deliver all the information which, in the case of attempted crime, is a question what could be the case. Downloads from cameras inside the bank, recorded stats, intercepted documents? Once the transaction has not taken place, what information is legally owned by the employee? In Article 20, the officials are exempted from all responsibility, even if their complaint is proven to be incorrect, not only from the consequences of work, but also from all responsibility. This, if applicable, is not a rule of law, but a state of irresponsible complaint. Finally, paragraph 3 admits that it may even obligated entities unlawfully and turn against an official who makes the complaint. This was the case with Wirecard in Germany. Article 21 concerns the storage of records by persons liable. The wording shows that the intention is not to keep the data, even in pending cases of 2015, beyond 2020. That means it will be a retroactive discharge. According to the Directive, the retention period must be five years after the end of the partnership. We wonder why the law attempts to delete data for pending investigations in 2015 and which we do not know when they ended? The limits set are arbitraryly completely and serve some other feasibility which is probably to deprive some research into their documentation material. In Article 24(2), it is revealed that information will also be moved to the counterpart authorities of the other States, even if the main offence is not identified. In other words, every citizen is at the mercy of the officials of those authorities who have no responsibility for complaints and there is no need for crime to receive information. This situation reminds us of the imposition of dictatorial regimes. Such provisions are totally unacceptable and wasted by a law. Finally, Article 32 refers to the Committee of Lawyers who have many problems in terms of how it operates and the legality of the way it operates. It is clear, rather, that you expect a lawyer to hand over a suspicious transaction in which he himself is involved. If not involved, a question arises as to the use of his information. So how is there expected to be a complaint? Also, the customer's right to trust in the lawyer's privacy, how is it guaranteed? I will repeat that this draft law, apart from economic, is also legal. According to the explanatory statement, this relates to a number of areas, such as virtual currencies and prepaid cards, where customer verification for an amount of EUR 150 and upwards is more stringent, while it was EUR 250 to this day. I wonder whether, in this way, with the sum of EUR 150 for prepaid cards, we want to control proceeds from criminal activities to finance terrorism, why are we talking about such poor sums of EUR 150 for dirty money? As for the high-risk countries, what are these? Banks - it says the draft law - need to strengthen their vigilance in terms of financial transactions with high-risk countries, including those on the list of non-European Union countries with insufficient control. But what country is the champion in such practices and what bank is the top of everyone's dirty money laundering? Germany and Deutsche Bank, which alone had washed off approximately 1,3 billion dollars. World champions, not only in football, but also in lawlessness. Recently the Financial Times highlighted the involvement of Berlin and Chancellor, Germany, with the huge scandal of the German company Wirecard, which was considered to be the leading German technology. Seven former company officials are in custody. The company then admitted that EUR 1,9 billion was missing from its funds, resulting in the company going bankrupt, collapsed, and the stock market losing over EUR 13 billion. This scandal brought to light the way and influence specifically of oligarchal interests and lobbyist groups on the German and elsewhere's political scene. This scandal highlighted the weaknesses of German legislation and, in particular, the inadequacy of the BaFin Regulatory Authority, which, instead of investigating the existing complaints made by government informants, BaFin and the Munich Prosecutors denounced the journalists and investors who turned against Wirecard. Let us stress that the supervisory authority of the German regulator, BaFin and the German authority against dirty money laundering is the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance. The money laundering involves politicians and journalists. The dirt and the stench have reached Chancellorship. As far as the bodies' hearing is concerned, we have heard the Vice-President of the Ice Authority and the President of the Anti-Fraud and Legislative Authority of Crime, stating, among other things, that in the last amendment to the Criminal Code there has been a deterioration and reduction of penalties for too many crimes and - I replicate it - "so as the Criminal Code has today in conjunction with the Law on Laundering, we cannot intervene in some cases that do not fall within the concept of action crime". Officer I' Director of Economic Police also said that - I copy - "There is an objective impossibility for the Directorate of Economic Police to be designated as the competent supervisory authority for the charge of silver and silver and pawnings as debtors". The Secretary of the OTOF Financial System said that the bodies carrying out these economic crimes are always a step forward in the face of developments, in the face of the legislative framework, in the face of technology. They find holes in the system and we constantly have such phenomena, that there should be funding for terrorism in illegal transactions. Finally, the Securities and Exchange Committee as a competent supervisory authority for supervising virtual currency providers said that there is no experience or appropriately trained personnel for this project. As MERA25, we stress that the state must have its own control mechanisms, mechanisms that operate on the basis of absolute impartiality and incorporate the possibilities that technological development gives us to do so. Why is the state not strengthened instead of all the above obligations that we have mentioned? Why is the chief responsible and responsible constitutionally to keep legality through its own control mechanisms, is it actually choosing to make outsourcing on the issue of dirty, black money? The recent paper leak of the U.S. Treasury revealed that more than 2 trillion dollars of money were moved from 1997 to 2017 through sound names of banks. The existing legal and regulatory framework fails to respond to rapid developments and the ongoing transformation of the financial system. The documents that have come to light reveal the worrying truth, that huge amounts of illegal black money flow into the financial system and that large banks are hosting corrupt and criminals whose action is one of the greatest threats to national security. So it's not about weak players. They are very large organisations, but as Bloomberg says, a huge network of lawyers, accountants, banks grinds the wheels of the vehicle carrying illegal money and comments that this case reveals that people are losing the battle against dirty money laundering. Things are becoming even more difficult with digital tools. Because we are talking about repression, I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what the citizens who are following us, when they know that 10% of the Greeks own 42% of the wealth and that our country shows the highest economic inequality between the countries of the European Union, as 12.9% is below the average of poverty. What will each citizen think, when the decision of the Council of State gives rise to tax disputes relating to Greek taxpayers' cases, who planted high-ranking funds into Swiss banks between 2000 and 2010, and whose names are included in the Lagard and Borgians lists? What should every citizen think when he learns that the OECD has found that there is a hidden undeclared money of 10 trillion euros? What will every citizen think when he sees the police arresting illegal people and the state let them go? To close, in view of the trial's decision tomorrow, I would like to say for eternity the memory of Paul Physsa and all those killed by the fascist atrocities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Starting I want to say this. I do not want justice to be viewed as an influence on tomorrow's day, but it goes without saying that any Nazi form or fascist form should be condemned. The point is to find out where this form was born from. It's not just condemning a process or judging a result. The problem in Greece is that we are all dealing with the result and we are trying to heal the result. The cause of the creation of the nazi structures, and especially in a country such as Greece which democracy is perpetuating, must give special consideration to us. Of course, fascist right-wing elements and fascist left elements exist in Greece anyway. It's for granted. And because I want to speak with clues, look for the story of 'COSCO' and the conflicts that had occurred at the time between fascist elements, nazi and left-wing groups. These elements - because fascism is not only black, but it is also red - we must press, that is, the elements that fuel their existence through fascist, nazi choices and, above all, - I shall say it directly - anti-democratic processes. The largest share of responsibility bears the political system, because to be born a fascist, Nazi movement means that the political system has not been able to convince the citizen that this system called 'naziism' is doomed, is rejected and - frankly I will say it - inhuman. You haven't convinced him for fifty, sixty years, and the snake's egg was born. And you didn't convince him because you all get involved in a logic of internationalism and extreme neoliberalism, forgetting homeland, forgetting history, thus giving space to Nazi cultures. And I don't want to influence any decision of tomorrow's justice. It's not my intention, and this House is not going to do it, but the conviction is self-evident. Nobody's talking about it. A self-evident condemnation of any nazi structures! But let's look at the others, the red forms, the fascist, the Nazis. And I am not talking about the constitutional arch, the JRC or other parties, but there are far-reaching forms, such as Antarcia, which behave in the same fascist way as the Nazi format. I'm stopping here. Tomorrow we'll wait for the decision. Justice will speak. We all have to understand that executive, legislative power cannot interfere with the work of justice, whatever our views may be. Our view is different and justice is different. So let us rejoice in her authority not to have any other kind of problems. I am sure that justice, whichever criminal activity of the people will condemn it after abomination, will end the history of the Nazis in our country. It's over and over! The Prime Minister saw Stoldeberg a while ago and made statements. I heard him carefully. He did not make a single reference to Cyprus, not a single reference to sanctions, nor a single reference to what our country wants. The only thing he was interested in is the disposal of the Turks for dialogue. The weak is now visible. It seems that the weakest one is Greece, while on the contrary we are strong as a country - a member of the European Union - that we have never vetoed unfortunately - and as a country that has a powerful army. I felt a weakness - if you see the Prime Minister's face you will understand - to show the self-evident force, send a message to Turkey that we are next to Cyprus, that sanctions are still in our fortress and that we are not taking a step backwards. I say that because we really need to be careful. The fact that "Yavuz" has left Cyprus doesn't tell me anything, because he left the equipment behind. Those who know from drills left behind specific tools on the bottom, which means they'll come back. He's gone to come back, he says. So we have to be careful. And who are we talking about? The report by the Commission today - to make it a report by the god! - He's talking about certain things. WELT publishes it today and says: 'Turkey is being removed from the European Union. We have regression in democracy, the rule of law and individual rights." With this state, the structure, the Greek Prime Minister is attempting to make an honest dialogue. With dishonest, fascist, nazi states you can't have an honest dialogue. And Turkey is a fascist, nazi, authoritarian, murderous, inhuman state. That's the truth. How are we going to go to dialogue? Have you ever wondered? How are you going to go into dialogue with these people, who never keep their word, who have opened up fronts all over the world. They haven't left a front unopened. They've got open fronts everywhere. There isn't! West, east, north, south, everywhere! So I say about Nagorno Karabakh and Armenia and what is happening in the region. I asked the President of Parliament for something. It is shameful that the Greek Parliament still has a Committee on Friendship of Greece - Azerbaijan. The committee should be frozen now, now that we have been talking since yesterday. We have put it as a party and no ratification has taken place at least. So today I put a request to the President of Parliament. According to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, we are calling for a resolution of support from the Greek Parliament to the tested people of Armenia, a Armenian people who accepts the barbaric Turkish to invade his own country, a resolution from the Greek Parliament at last in favour of the Armenians. Let's show that we exist! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] For what the Turks have done against us in Cyprus, they have taken their parliament resolutions. Should we not equally draw up a simple resolution, a resolution condemning the barbaric invasion of the Turks? Because it's not the Azeri, it's the Turks. I'm closing and we're going to the bill. You've been banking. You had the laundry to clean the laundry. That's what you did. My Minister, you are one of the most decent ministers, because you have ears and you hear what we say many times. Mr. Villard tells me what you're trying to do and bring about a difficult task. That's true. But if you look to see how money is laundered, because you know financially, banks are the best "washing machine". Twenty-nine manufacturers of dirty money laundry are banks! We all know that. And I'll prove it to you with evidence. I'm not telling you, now I'm going to give you anything. Who controls the money route? I'm sending a transfer of 10 million euros. Who controls it? The bank. Since they make it easier, they help. We don't transfer them to suitcases. Because to carry 10 million dollars or 10 million euros you need containers. They're not being carried in containers, they're recordings, a button, a record, they're gone. Where's he going? In the bank and washed from there. Here is a survey of the International Journalists Association, who said they identified two thousand hundred classified reports of suspicious activity, showing volume of transactions between 1999 and 2016 2.1 billion dollars, Minister. And I'm saying that why? Five banks - it says directly - Morgan, Standard Chartered Bank, Deutsche Bank, Bank of New York Mellon, HSBC, all these banks made them "washing machine", these blocks of global economies made them "washing machine". Of course HSBC itself recognised that in 2012 it laundered 900 million dollars itself, Minister. So you had the thief guard the money. That's what you do to me now, you put the banks, the thieves - because it's thieves, we don't fool ourselves - to guard. With levers, with high loans, they take homes, they confiscate, but in Piladaki they looked the other way, so we don't forget. Delete the debts of millions of euros, 130 million euros, you deleted them. Not you, the banks. He's been chased by Greeks. Now we're going to Germany. I've said it. At least I know Germany well, like Mr. Villards. As I understand it, you know Germany well, you have relationships, Mr. President. I'll tell you this. Minister, 100 billion a year is the amount of money laundering, 100 billion in Germany. If you're looking for a little bit, you'll understand what I mean. Eighth place as a tax haven, Germany, swinging our fingers! Can I now tell you about the Netherlands, Minister? In 2011 through the Netherlands they fled the national tax of 4 trillion. Why does all the companies go to the Netherlands? Tell me, you know? They have low taxation and offshore companies, they are onshore, they are like Luxembourg. They're baptizing the fish meat. Just like Cyprus, if you want. Cyprus does that, but to a lesser extent. These are normally laundry machines. I will not tell you the figures, I will only tell you that the seat of tax evasion is Luxembourg. VOLKSWAGEN in 2003 won 81 million and paid a EUR 87,000 tax! He declared 81 million profits, paid 87,000, or 0,1% tax in Luxembourg. Why can't "3E" go after? Not the '3E', but someone else. NESTLE? Some left Greece and went to Luxembourg. I'm not sure. I don't have a chance to tell you who. The 'RICHARDO' went to Luxembourg two years ago. Hey, everybody's going to Luxembourg! Which European Union, which Eurozone, which single economic policy, which single institutional factors? Nothing, everyone's doing what they want and looking at it. There is no Europe, who are we mocking in here? The European Union and solidarity! Let me remind you, Minister, that you are not responsible, of course, to God - the Lagard list. How did they write down? Tell me about you, what was the Lagard list? The Lagard list has been filed! Let me tell you. In fact, the Council of State has decided on this. Who was in S.T.E.? I don't know. Was it the President of the Republic, if I'm not mistaken? Was it or wasn't it? I'm not sure. I'm asking. Let's go to the Lagard list. Confirmed taxes, fines of EUR 330 million to five hundred taxpayers. The public will return EUR 50 million from taxes, i.e., we are owed, we will also pay back taxes. We're giving them money! Borgians list, sometimes left out of here, right-wing people and yelling at the Lagard list, Borgians list! The Government of Samara, the Government of New Democracy in 2012, refused to receive the evidence because it considered that they were given illegally, he says. But the state could, through these elements, demand money from them, even out-of-court. Delays, limitations, too, in this story. Let's go to the Panama Papers, here's the big party. Two hundred fourteen thousand offshore accounts, with many Greek names inside, too. If you are looking for "Greece", it seems the two-three offshore companies, four hundred names of beneficiaries, seventy-seven middlemen and three hundred thirteen addresses. Was that one of them, guys? Wasn't he in the Panama Papers? The good boy your own, you're invoking him now. So you see the complexion of dirty money, the policies that cover dirty money and the laundry that is all going on together? That's the reality. So we're mocking people here. Laughing dirty money! What can I say? Do you need to catch the dirty money? Look at the money from the NGOs. Your government, Mr. Zabves, controls non-governmental organisations? I'll give you a clue. I have it in front of me and I'll present it to you. Listen. The investigation was carried out following a complaint from Germany to a NGOs, ten years of activity in Greece. In 2011-2018 revenues 23 million, grants of EUR 9.7 million. He received via Switzerland from Saudi interests fund about 3 million euros. It employs six hundred people. If you don't believe, enter the cnn.gr - it's your site, center-street - and in.gr, it has these elements. And it appears to pay EUR 7 million annually. No one's controlling him. Nobody controls this NGO. And stop lying to the world. You found four NGOs, which I gave you here in the House, took them away by Metarakis, checked and caught - says slave traders. Four hundred are NGOs. You've found four. Imagine the other party that's going on. Aren't they in your registries? New Democracy made a record, and the NGOs weren't written. Instead of closing them from the next day, you let them work. I'm telling you evidence. Of course, we live in a country where all my accountants told me yesterday that they paid HNVIA my own, the temporary one during Mr Venizelos - because HNVIA was temporary - and then became legal according to Mr Samaras, later abrogated by Mr. Tsipras, reduced during Mr. Mitsotakis, but HNVIA was increased for me and for many Greeks. So how can the Greek people believe us and how can the snake's egg not be incubated? After you keep lying, we lie to the Greek people all the time. How won't the snake's egg come up and become a snake? I'm asking you. If we do not look the citizen in the eyes, we honestly tell him the reality, we will have the same problems. Yesterday, without the Minister responsible, your friend Adoni Georgiadis, the Prime Minister meets his spokesman "DATA CENTER". Yannis Vrutzis is leaving, my friend. Yannis doesn't listen and well, don't think, he only listens when they say "Vave contributions, make increases". I will say this: the Prime Minister met with the representative - he says - of 'MICROSOT' and you said 1 billion. I want the Prime Minister to tell me where this $1 billion comes from. Because I'm not as good as you are or as Mr. Villards is. I'm looking to find the 1 billion-dollar investment of "MICROSOT" how does it come out? I'm not saying, welcome, and pavilion to open for me is welcome, but for a hundred jobs to tell me EUR 1 billion of added value? With the same reasoning and the kiosk can make you 5 million euros in twenty years. Additive value? Is that the prosthetic value? Let us be a little serious about the Greek people. We can't make fun of him. You were talking about the Greek that it's going to be built. Where is he? I spend every day there. I see nothing, Minister. That is to say, they force the citizen, Mr Minister - because you are not a political person, you are a technocrat - to say 'all are liars, all thieves, we will go to the eggs of the snake'. That's how the snake's egg was born. That is the reality, while we have to be completely different, tell the Greek people the truth. So what can I say about the Data Center? And you have to tell him the Prime Minister - because he does not know - that there are already Data Centers in Greece, fourteen in number, not one and two, but fourteen. We made it a flag. So I suggested to the government - I am pressed for time - to do the following at last. You made an arrangement for the hundred and twenty instalments you and the Ministry of Finance for the FBI, etc. Do it again. Because even those who entered the regulation are forced and find it difficult to pay. Bring in a setting for the FBI and for the taxes, for a hundred and twenty instalments today, for everyone, for a broom, to get something. There's no other way. People are having a hard time. The same deal they make, how will they pay you, since they don't have any cigarettes, don't the market move? But don't we get it? Don't we see it? Can't you see what's going on in the market? Even coffee doesn't work anymore. Make a setup! I have told the Minister, I am transferring it to you, Mr Brutsi. I told Mr Stavoura, that it must be done quickly, that all businesses are integrated. And in ten, fifteen years' time, companies must be born, say 'Come on, make arrangements to re-create jobs'. There's no other way. And stop the wrong model! I see in the new budget 30% growth of time - I know - in the next few years in two pillars - listen! - in the wind turbine - in the mosque - and in the tourism. But that's not development! The whistle, the windmill gives you a job at the hundred wind turbines. Tourism is dangerous. Change production model - I told you - primary sector, support fisheries, support agriculture, livestock farming, create processing! This is a productive model! The others are air cut. I am frankly saying this and I am sad that you are not telling the truth to the Greek people. You're privatising the TEDD, I see it in the next few months. It's the only profitable company, 350 million a year. The 1 billion euro of "MICROSOT" made it a flag of the Prime Minister and the Greek listened to it and said "1 billion euros will fall into the market?", 350 million euros alone is the TEN, which you privatize, you give it to private individuals. Every year we get it, it's profit, it's net profit. In other words, these are contradictory things in an economic policy. And also, Minister, this arrangement that you and the pensioners have made - I would say it directly - was a little clever. They will lose any further claim, they will be taxed, in the end they will be offset by a fine, because they have also been employed by the agency. That's what you're gonna do with the pensions. And it's just for the gentlemen. They're mistakes. And because the Minister for Transport - and I am closing, Mr President - is not telling the truth about the buses that do not exist because of the coronary - because everyone put them with the Greeks, they swear to the Greeks - yesterday I saw a video online where auditors, ladies and gentlemen, control the Greeks on the one hand and impose fines - and did well - on those who did not have a ticket. At the same time, in the video there were right-wing illegal immigrants from whom they didn't control anyone, because they didn't have any identities, they didn't have papers. This is racism, racism against the Greeks! There's the video posted. You won't see it in "SCAI", "SCAI" is your shop. SKAI's been calling you and SYRIZA all day. Nor will he call for a change movement anymore. I don't know, you guys do something to him in the Change Movement. In 'SCAI' something you did, it can't be done. They once called you once, once, twice a week. Now you've done something to them. Come on, we're quarantined because of a coroner, they've got us in quarantine. The JRC never, the Mera25, when it only gets dark. So, what do we talk about now? Yesterday, I saw SKAI. They said everything except the basics. So, for the means of public transport, with the third memorandum, Minister, the public transport that they belong to? Does anyone know? Does any of you know? To the superstition! They do not belong to the Greek Government, they cannot do anything unless they get permission. You know that? Here, then, I will testify to the Minutes for the Greek people, cars, buses, trolleybuses, all of this belongs to the superstition. So the government must come to an agreement with them, and if they want to, and if they can, if they give the green light - I am wrong, Mr Villardo? - then only they can implement it. Even the buses of the Greek people are at the supreme! That's why Kostas Karamanlis was having trouble getting buses and did whatever he could to satisfy both the superstition and all of our lenders, so that we could get with leasing more precisely than the new ones to satisfy the lenders. We're talking about the overseer's scams at the expense of the Greek people! But that's not what anyone's saying. And I close with two things. Let's go to Trump. Why do you all call him Trump? I honestly don't understand why all the channels swear Donald Trump, what's the reason. What if he's re-elected? He is a philosopher, he has something to do with Erdogan - and I condemn this - but leave a door open for winter. I see SKAY all day in favor of Biden who's ready to sleep the man. In three days, however, Trump, while having a coronary, became "Roboko". That means something. Look it up for a little bit! It means something. How did he get out in three days after the coronary? Now the neo-democratic 'conspiracy' will be said. When we conspire, we're conspiracies. Now I see them from the morning saying that they did it on purpose and did it for the sensitivity of the world to get votes. You guys are unbelievable! Sprayed you tell others that conspiring and sprayed you yourself when conspiring yourself. Of course, I will tell you this: The medicine Trump took is from a well-known young man from Thessaloniki. He studied Pharmaceuticals in Thessaloniki a few years ago, Greek! And the president of the Greek company! Yankopoulos is one and the other is Kyatsus. They are Greeks, Castoria and Kozani, Macedonians, Greeks, made his medicine cocktail. Couldn't the government give this research to produce, give the young children themselves an incentive to stay here and leave America to escape? I'm asking you. They leave the Greek birds, six hundred thousand Greek birds have left. We'll turn it back! It's over! We'll turn the Greeks back to make a Greece better for the Greeks! There's no other way! It can't be done! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And also the mask thing, you guys! In the morning he went out, the day before, I listened - he broke through Maximos - "not necessarily the masks inside and outside, has not been rendered abroad". A few hours after it is implemented in Achaia and Yannina, "machines necessarily all". Listen to me: This mask story, if Trump comes out and finds the medicine quickly, it'll turn out to be a bubble. New Democracy invested in the masks and you are now coming as a party of a patriotic party, which abolished Easter, abolished the churches, abolished the Fifteenth August, abolished what was sacred and loyal there - but operated the mosques - and you say at the same time that we will not make a parade on October 28th. Do you like it? I don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u38	Yeah. And I say: How did it happen in Cyprus a few days ago? It could be with masks. The parade was made - listen a little - in three countries, in specific countries in Europe. A parade took place in Cyprus as well in France. Couldn't we make a parade? Why don't we make a parade? You tell me. Why don't we make a parade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u39	All planes will fly, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u40	What's the point? For our health? Fairy tales! You want to root out from the mind of the Greeks the Orthodoxy, the history and the honor of his ancestors. That's the reality. And remember, on November 17th, we'll have marches, though. There you won't dare enforce the law! As we had a few days ago and for the Bridge the late, which is another matter, of course, that the snake egg must be struck, we are not talking about it. Other marches, "Gay Pride", you allowed them. The Pakistani people took a walk, but the parade is forbidden. You're making mistakes! To close, I'll say this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u41	All planes will fly, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Hatzidakis, don't do this. On SYRIZA it was taken over by a school in northern Macedonia - so they called it, in Macedonia the Greek for me, there is no northern Macedonia - occupations were taken - if you remember - for Macedonian. She was in Greek school. The prosecutor ordered SYRIZA's Minister of Justice and children's parents were arrested. SYRIZA is now suddenly in favor of conquests. When occupations are held on national issues, SYRIZA conceives parents, when occupations are carried out and halls are destroyed, cobbled, computers are stolen, burned, as was done in Kalamata, as in other schools, we are in favour of occupations. That is why I tell you that the snake egg from there is incubating, inconsistencies, lack of seriousness, lack of arguments, lack of proposals. And I'll tell you one last thing and I'll close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u43	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u44	The JRC makes marches nice, coordinates. The U.N.A. has been marching with their massages, in layout, with distances. Couldn't we make a parade? Cyprus, France, Russia. Why shouldn't we? And I conclude by saying this: I would ask the Bureau, Mr Athanasios, to speak with the President of Parliament and to tell him that we have to draw up a resolution of support to the Armenian people as a Parliament. I would ask Mr Avdela and Mr Athanasios to take it to him - why? - because very simply what Armenia has suffered today from Azerbaijan under pressure from Turkey, I fear that we will also suffer them and we need friends. We need people and peoples and nations who will support us, who have the same story as us, genocide, persecution, persecution, massacre and rape. Let us honour their struggle, because they do not leave their country to become illegal immigrants in Greece, stay there and fight. It is not like Afghan so-called refugees, Pakistanis coming here from supposedly wars. They stay and fight for altars and focuses and leave all over Europe and all America to fight for themselves. That's a people! That's the people I want the Greek people, not the shreddings! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u46	Minister, will you speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u47	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u48	Good. To arrange the time, will the Minister come? Because if Mr. Staruras comes, the time has to be different, you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u49	I will speak for 15 minutes, Mr President, to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u50	Well, we'll put the time in, so there'll be a tolerance. Mr George Zavvos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. After Mr Velopoulos' many-speaking speech, I will concentrate only on the issues of the bill and it will necessarily be a donation speech. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism which the government is currently bringing to the National Representation is primarily at the top of the processes currently taking place in the European Union for the completion of the Banking Union and the integration of the Union of the European Capital Markets. This is a phenomenon that literally threatens the foundations of the European financial system and even the foundations of institutions and the credibility of states. This is a complex phenomenon, because organised crime tends to use the leaps in the banking sector. It is a phenomenon that knows no borders, overcomes and goes beyond national jurisdictions and the scope of national authorities. It is literally a moving sand, a moving target for all those who want to deal with it, and we are well aware that it requires full vigilance and effectiveness of all those bodies that are the chain, the guardians of the system, which must control cash flows and capital movements. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Some very brief evidence. Conservative estimates can speak of at least 2% of European GDP, which is affected by the money laundering phenomenon, which is equivalent to about EUR 400 billion in Europe and over EUR 2 trillion worldwide. A few years ago, there was the leak of the Panama Papers, where credit institutions were found involved in illegal activities. Last week the French prosecuting authorities dismantled a large network of extremists in Syria using encryption, which, as we will say then, is a kind of digital media transaction. Two - three years ago we were all watching that the largest bank of a Baltic country literally acted as an intermediary for money laundering many hundreds of millions of euros, which had huge consequences, severe sanctions, but it also showed that money laundering is the soft backwards of the European financial system. In the discussions we have had here with the representatives of all the parties and with the bodies it has proved that there is a vast majority that agrees on the need to combat and also on the general architecture of the phenomenon. In private remarks, I will try to respond to the end of this speech. One of the most important issues that the bill comes to address is the modernisation of the regulations on transparency of corporate structures, and here I am referring to the Central Register of Real Rights to which we also provide access to the members of the general public. This concerns in particular the registration of political parties and unions, to which the Communist Party has also referred. I would like to say that the unions and the trade unions have already had an obligation to register on the basis of previous law, and that is why I would say that it is not necessarily a new regulation. We also know that the same goes for lawyers. I wanted to remind you that lawyers have become obliged persons since 2018. Finally, as far as the politically exposed persons are concerned, although the provision is a precedent of law, we add the establishment of a list of the specific tasks and responsibilities of these categories and their notification to the European Commission. A joint decision by the Minister of Finance and the President of the Parliament will make it possible to publish the catalogue. Thus, we provide increased legitimacy since the Special Service of the Committee on Assurance Statements of the Greek Parliament will have the relevant training. Another point underpinning the bill is the need for cooperation between the various competent bodies, at national level, at European level, but also at international level. The directive and the legislation greatly strengthen the issue of prudential supervision. Several of them have referred to the question of the protection of witnesses and petitioners. I would like to say that here we are taking a step forward towards protecting individual freedoms, prohibiting discrimination in the working environment of all those people who have trustedly file complaints with the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Crime. Another point to which many have referred, and Mr Katrinis and Mr Villardos, as well as Mr Alexiadis, are the subject of supervising virtual currencies. The directive seeks to address the phenomenon of the anonymity of the holders of virtual currencies and makes it impossible, at least at the moment, to misuse them for criminal purposes. In other words, there is an obligation for providers of virtual currencies to identify any suspicious activity, in the same way that the obliged persons of the law must do so, such as financial institutions and payment institutions. There has been a lot of discussion about why, although how the Securities Committee can do this. I told you at previous meetings and discussions what the government was thinking about this issue, which I share, as this is a crucial issue. It is crucial because, first of all, it is very difficult to determine what the text is, what the importance is, what the role of these new figurative currencies is. Is it a question of currency and, therefore, we should look at it on the monetary policy side, which Mrs Lagard and all the monetary supervisory authorities are dealing with? Or are these assets, the so-called assets, for whose supervision the Securities and Market Commission and all the market committees are responsible? In this case and on the basis of international and European experience, we considered it appropriate to entrust supervision to the Securities and Market Commission. You mentioned very much - and I share it - the possibility of the Securities and Exchange Committee exercising supervision, and some have been asked whether we should wait a long time for it to be able, firstly, to acquire proper staffing and the proper knowledge of the subject in order to be able to exercise supervision. We thought it is crucial and urgent now that some such difficult phenomena are already on the market, that the Securities and Exchange Committee should take over its role and that it should be able to do so together with the help of the State in terms of resources, staffing and training of executives. You know, since you voted by a overwhelming majority on the corporate governance bill, the latter further strengthens the powers of the Securities Committee. We have not recommended that the Securities Committee should have made the memorandum of cooperation with ELTE and adopt its own rules of procedure. You will remember from that bill that the President of ELTE, the sworn accountant, has been able to participate on the capital market board. We support and shield all the Greek supervisory authorities to whom this difficult task has been entrusted in every possible way. Mr President, I would like to mention - and I am very interested in this - that we have already accepted the proposal of the Hellenic Police Headquarters as supervisory authority, adjustments made by the Committee on the Supervision and Control which clarify the conditions for gaming, due to their specific nature, technical comments from the Securities Committee on companies imported into a regulated market or a multilateral trading mechanism, the proposal of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority in respect of the penalties of basic offences, as well as the recent change in the Criminal Code, in order to avoid the limitation of certain offences. Finally, according to Directive 843/2018, we have taken into account the clarifications proposed by the Greek Banking Union. Mr President, I shall now come to the specific remarks of the representatives of the various parties: Regarding the observations made by Mr Alexiadis of SYRIZA on the Criminal Code and the main offences, I will say that we are introducing, with a recommendation from the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities, an amendment to Law 4557/2018, so that the main offence for the purposes of this is considered to be any other offence punishable by imprisonment and, of course, an advantage arises in order to avoid limitation. Also, with regard to Mr Alexiadis' remarks, I would like to say that you may have read the European Commission's report. I would remind you that we incorporate the fifth directive here. Therefore, its scope is necessarily specific and limited, but we will also have the possibility in subsequent directives that come, on the sixth and seventh, to adapt even better our capacity and the supervisory authorities. Clearly, we are in favour of strengthening institutions and witnesses, because, as shown in this bill, in Article 20, we are talking about measures to protect petitioners, as I have said before. There's something in this bill. In fact, as I have said, we also provide legal protection, thereby strengthening all those security barriers from threats and extortion at the workplace. Regarding the remarks made by Mr Katrin, the representative of the Change Movement, you stressed the importance of the effectiveness of the actions of all the authorities. I believe that the remarks I made earlier about strengthening the role of the Securities Committee and in particular the role assigned to it in relation to virtual currencies are important. I would like to add that we are introducing three new articles on more effective exchange of information, which, if that is what you want, is entering the spectre of the supervisory authorities. Mr Katrin has again said something about the Anti-Fraud Authority and about the issue of access to more extensive information to deal with natural economic crime. The Committee on the capital market once again thinks that it is primarily responsible for dealing with this phenomenon at this particular moment. The representative of the JRC spoke of the Register of Real Beneficiaries. I would like to say that it is a model of cooperation, as most rapporteurs have rightly pointed out. We have referred to and credited the previous governments for the important steps that have been taken here. There is a continuation of the rule of law on which all governments must build. Our country has received credit for this. The associations shall be registered for the sake of transparency as any other corporate and legal entity. None of these alerts means that there is a suspicion of criminal activity or of the related terrorism. I'm guessing you didn't imply that, but it's good to make it clear. In relation to Mr Villard's observations - and I am closing, Mr President - I would like to say that encryption is a threat to the banking system. Laundry is a threat, all the international organisations have seen it now, and of course we also have the list of third countries being prepared by the European Commission, and I think it renews it every year, which are high-risk third countries. As you can see, the European Commission is doing so in thorough procedures. The relevant regulation was adopted in May with the agreement of all the Member States, while the basis for all these procedures was, as you know, the International Financial Action Group, the so-called FATF. With regard to Mr Villard's remarks on the scandals of the past and for the reasons, to examine the role of the Securities and Markets Committee, I think we have had the opportunity to discuss this in detail here in the context of the vote on the corporate governance bill, which is now law. I think we shielded this phenomenon in the most appropriate way. Mr President, we know that by adopting this draft law today we are taking a step in the many steps that we have taken and we need to do more, because we are adapting the fifth directive to our right, but we are adding innovative, interesting provisions, which further enhance transparency and the effective functioning of supervisory authorities. But it is an international and European phenomenon. And I did not say by chance that he was at the top of the issues, of the German Presidency and of the European agenda, which concern the integration of financial markets. We hope that very soon we will have an independent European supervisory authority which, in cooperation with all the national authorities to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, will be an architect, a system that is very dynamic and effective, so that the European Union can effectively deal with what I said at the outset at the outset, possibly also the achilles heel of our financial system. After that, I would like to call on the Members of all the parties to vote in favour of this bill, for which I think we have a truly significant convergence of views, and once again in society the message that the National Representation is capable and ready to help deal with these very dangerous phenomena, such as money laundering and terrorist financing. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u52	Mr Minister, before you come out of the Step I would like in my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Control to ask you for a clearer clarification on Article 14 of the 'from where you were', because I was asked by the agency. This article gives a joint decision by the President of the Parliament and the Minister of Finance on the recommendation from the relevant agency and because there is the phrase 'politically exposed' and it is repeated - of course - for me it is clear - that we are talking about qualities and not about persons. I would like you to clarify that, so that we are in any case okay. In my view, it should be pointed out, although it is clear from the context, but the agency has asked me to do so, and I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, your remarks are very relevant. I would like to say that during the consultations on the preparation of this bill, we had the opportunity to work with the President of this House - and I thank him in particular - and we were converging in the use of the exact language contained in this provision. I would like to confirm what you are saying and to clarify that we are talking here about qualities. In other words, in order to give a tangible example, the Minister of Finance and the President of the Parliament will have the opportunity to explain, for example, when talking about ambassadors, who ambassadors, what degree of ambassador they mean. I think that is the clarification and I would like to say again that we are talking about qualities here. It will be clear if we can expand even further.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure were adopted by the House yesterday, with the amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u55	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsi, in order to defend some amendments, namely Amendment No 488 and Amendment No 81, and to Amendment No 491 and specific No 82, which I see to be mentioned in his name. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, the explanation of the amendments does not require much time because they are specific. They have already seen the light of publicity as information and as statements by the government, so I will try to be brief and as detailed as possible on what I have to present before the National Representation. I would therefore like to start by saying to my fellow Members and the Bureau that the Ministry of Labour has tabled a specific amendment on the basis of which it comes for reasons of equality and justice to align and correspond to the payment of retroactively to public sector pensioners, as well as to those of private sector retrospectives for the nineteenth month from 11-6-2015 until the publication of L.4387/2016. This money which will be deposited within the timetable, as we have said, in order to be paid in October, is irrevocably and irrevocably in the hands of the public or third parties, by way of derogation from all general and specific provisions, not bound or offset by certain debts to the tax administration and public authorities in general, municipalities, regions and insurance funds or credit institutions. The payment of the amounts referred to in paragraph 1 shall also not take place withholding tax in accordance with Article 60 of L.4172/2013, nor withholding a special solidarity contribution. These are the procedures in which the specific money will be paid for both the Parliament and the pensioners, who are struggling for the money they will receive, the sum total that concerns the payment of the retrospectives, according to the Report of the Court of Auditors, is EUR 892 million for the private sector and EUR 496 million for the public sector, i.e. a total of EUR 1.4 billion, as from the outset we said we would pay for pension retrospectives. At the same time, they involve three hundred ninety-nine thousand public pensioners and seven hundred thirty-one thousand private sector pensioners, that is, a million thousand pensioners. Also, for information to Parliament and the pensioners, who are asking when this money will be taken, you know that the Government and the Ministry of Labour in particular since July achieved something very important and which was particularly beneficial during the pandemic period: one million two hundred and fifty thousand less transactions with the banking credit institutions, because for the first time the pension payments of August, which were paid in July, were made together. Main and supplementary pensions - this has also been done - are now paid together, with a million two hundred and fifty thousand involving supplementary pensions, so that pensioners do not need to go to credit institutions. So, for reasons of avoidance of aggregation, the retroactive payments will normally be made in October with the payment of ordinary pensions, as provided for in a separate line, so that it will appear and be evident for each pensioner what retrospectively it will take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like to speak on the amendment as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u60	Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to congratulate Mr Brutsi, because he is completely fair. It does not exclude public and private employees, it cuts both pensions straight. First, it brought us a provision that private employees have a privileged treatment of some pensioners and now comes to do something like this to civil servants. You are currently bringing rules that extend the blow to public pensioners and retrospectively only for basic pensions, and you exclude subsidiary and gifts. This is how you anticipate a decision by the Court of Auditors and do more than that, which is a dangerous precedent. So you say that once this money is lodged, pensioners cannot claim more than that. Why are you doing this? Don't you know it's against this constitution? Don't you know that makes us very suspicious about what else you'll bring in the future with the same logic? You who have been talking about retired people for so long now are doing something that is a blow to private employees and now also to civil servants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u63	Look, Mr President, because the loss of a recent memory is a bad thing, a very bad thing, in politics in particular is sometimes humiliating, I would like you to remember - like me and forgive me - that when you were in opposition with us, the state's behaviour towards the retired people has underlined it negatively and we have given each one of us a negative signal on his part and with the political perspectives he has had and the promises of the future. You'll tell me that the Change Movement is being facilitated because it's in the Opposition. I have no objections. However, we remain faithful in our positions, Mr President. Saying, "Will you take this money, which you've earned with decisions, but you're giving up every right of yours," how does it sound? Honestly, my question is not a rhetoric. It is, of course, mainly for the citizens who listen to us outside this Chamber. However, the question is literally the question, Mr President. How does "Come get what I give you, why do you need and you'll come and get it, but you will resign from every claim you have against the Greek public"? In June last year, for the private sector, and now for the public, a period of unpaid promises from the government, Mr President, is being completed, and we are obliged to meet the citizens who are listening to it, to support it and to disapprove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u64	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u65	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u66	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u67	My answer is only one: I should first of all explain to Mr Tsakalotos and remind him that he is calling us today for failure to fulfil obligations under the highest courts. That is actually what I understood, Mr Chakaloto. You're indebted to the government. Mr Tsakalotos, however, you should be more careful when you make statements of this kind in the House, because in my hands I am holding the Court of Auditors' decision, which you have invoked. And this decision of the Court of Auditors, which met on 10 June 2015, and it is a 2018 decision, has been telling you to comply with a specific direction towards pensioners since then. What have you been doing for two years? You didn't do anything. There was a decision by the Supreme Court, for which you are today absolved by the government, which pays this money, because we do not do what you are saying now, while you have not done it for two years. The subject of retrospectives does not stop here, ladies and gentlemen. The subject of retrospectives is all the time - I will say it for once in this Chamber - in the sense that our country has now acquired a reliable and sustainable insurance system. We have been through contributors of ten years and through the fermentation of opinions, ideas, through guidelines that we have taken from the European Union, we now have the reform of Law 4670, which condensates the best practices of all previous years and also of Europe. Our insurance system was accompanied for the first time by a proportionate study here in Parliament, as it had never been done in the history of insurance, which shows sustainability by 2070 and confuses the best ideas and views from the past. So this insurance came to correct and heal "false" of the previous law, one and the other. This insurance no longer opens accounts with the constitutional court. These 'floods' and open accounts have been closed. All Greeks now know that they have an insurance policy, an insurance policy which makes it attractive to each Greek to participate in it, which cultivates the insurance consciousness. We also close the last open accounts with the past in December, as they will now be paid retroactively to hundreds of thousands of pensioners. As you know, with the latest insurance law, the system turned it into a reward. Hundreds of thousands of retired people with thirty years in working life - existing pensioners - will get increases in their pension and retroactively fourteen months. So you see there's absolutely consistency in what we've said and we're committed. There is not a single statement in the past in the New Democracy and I personally had this portfolio, nor the Chief of Staff then, and today's Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, who is different from what we are doing today. We pay the retrospectives of 2015-2016. We are also paying back payments to the subsidiary. They have already been paid in May. Two hundred and fifty thousand supplementary pensions we corrected last month. We're correcting the main pensions in December. And we are now moving on to an insurance that sends a message of confidence, credibility and stability of pensions. Therefore, Mr President, I repeat that, at the end of October 2015-2016, the specific retrospectives will normally be paid in accordance with the procedure to be paid and the other pensions of pensioners, in order to avoid crowding, in a distinct line, so that it is evident what each one will get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u68	Before I give the floor to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, to place himself on it under a general number of 492 and a special amendment, which once again regulates matters known to all Members, which relate to the payment of workers at Elefsina Shipyard, to say that all this effort, Minister, has been made since you entered into, but before, the Elefsina Shipyard has been kept alive, a very important activity for the West Attica. Minister, I hope that's the last rule. As we all know, the Elefsina shipyard has entered a new road, which will provide prospects and development in the very sensitive area of Western Attica, which I represent as a Member for many years. And, above all, it will relieve workers, who every time waiting for a three-month extension, in order to get the money they deserve and not just. Thank you very much, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. That's what you call it. In fact, I hope that this attempt, this amendment, following on from other similar amendments we have brought before us for Elefsina Shipyards and for Scaramaga Shipyards, will be the last. However, this will depend on the process of both shipyards, initiated by the relevant ministries of development and finance, not on finding - the Elefsina shipyards - but on the entry of the private investor into the shipyards, since it has in fact taken over their control. However, as far as I know, we have to submit a draft resolution to the court under the provisions of the bankruptcy law. This, of course, as a prerequisite for approval, is to have the consent of creditors. One of them is the Department of National Defence. Subsequently, with the adoption of this plan, the procedures for the completion of this investment and for support with US funds should go ahead, since the United States of America is in fact investing not only in these shipyards, Elefsina Shipyards, but also in the entire Greek shipbuilding industry, in order to support, among other things, not only the ships of the Hellenic Navy, but also to attract other jobs. That is to say, among these jobs that have to do with building new ships, when the relevant decisions are taken by the Ministry of National Defence and the Hellenic Navy. As far as the Scaramaga shipyard is concerned, there is, of course, an interest in finding a new investor. This will, however, be done through the relevant competitive process, which we hope, at least as the Ministry of Defence, will be completed by the end of the year. We therefore tabled an amendment, with deposit number 492/83 from 5-10-2020, with two provisions. The first is to build the two rapid patrol steering missiles and complete the work in the submarines of the Navy. The first one in Elefsina, the second one in Scaramaga. They fall within the framework of the measures taken by the Ministry to continuously increase the militarity of these forces and especially the Hellenic Navy. This has shown how necessary it is in the months that they have passed. The first provision regulates the completion of the construction of two missiles of the Hellenic Navy. There is a three-month period - a prolongation rather - of the work contract between the Navy and the shipyard workers. Here it concerns the construction program of the two firearms number 6 and number 7 of the Warship Navy in Elefsina. I would remind you that firefighting number 6 has already been received since June. The flag of the Hellenic Navy was raised on 1 June 2020 and has been named Lieutenant Carathanasis, the name of one of the fallen heroes during the Imian incident. He's joined the structures of the Navy. Currently there are the last tests of armed systems and combat and command systems at sea. At the same time, the shipwreck continues with missile number 7. It was launched on 5 August 2020 and is now at the stage of the final tests, but has not yet been received by the Navy, as some procedures are missing. We estimate that these will take up to a few months to a year, until this ship is also received and join the structures of the Navy. So, here, for the performance of rocket 6 and the completion of the shipyard project of 7, there is a need for an extension of the programme by three months and additional funding up to EUR 3,375 000. It concerns payroll and employee insurance, operating costs of personnel movement services, materials and services for the completion of the programme. The second order of the two is about Scaramaga. Completion of operations of four submarines of the Hellenic Navy at the Scaramaga shipyard. As you know, there the special know-how and skills of the workers would be helpful to the maintenance work of the very necessary structures for the Armed Forces, and the Navy in particular, four submarines type 214, the most excellent weapon systems for the Navy, which proved particularly useful in crisis in the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean a short time ago. In order to complete the work and testing at sea and the operational performance of the submarines, additional funding is needed here as a result of the expiry of the extension granted. In the past, we have given two extensions since we came to the government for one semester each. Because we are reasonably waiting for this to end, for the competitive process to be completed by the end of the year, here we are giving another three-month extension, as is the case with the Elefsina shipyards. Here, by closing down, let me say this. From the first moment we took up our duties as government and the Ministry of National Defence, we moved in two directions. The first was to move too strongly in order to rebuild the ship repair industry in the country. This meant finding solutions to the tide in which the two large shipyards in the country had arrived. To some extent, I think this has been achieved, but we are at the difficult end stage of the entry of investors to both these shipyards. I think, on a reasonable basis, that we will be finished by the end of the year the competitive process in Scaramaga and the completion of the procedures for the entry of the new investor into the Elefsina shipyard. This will also stimulate the country's defence industry, as well as the country's total productive fabric. The other direction in which we moved was to make it clear from the outset that we would not leave the workers of these two production units in their luck. As you can see, the healthy situation, the normal situation in a normal economic situation, would be that these workers would be paid by their natural employer, who is no other than the ownership of the shipyard administration and not by the Navy for a specific project, on terms of a project contract, carried out on behalf of the Navy. The shipyard takes jobs from outside, from the Navy and possibly from third parties, and by doing these jobs it pays its employees. In recent years this has not been possible because of difficulties in both shipyards. The Navy came in this way by concluding a contract with the workers in fact, of course with the consent of the shipyards' ownership, so that it could give a solution to the problem and complete the resonance of the ships and the maintenance of the submarines. We hope that soon we will go to normality, that both shipyards will be able to operate in normal conditions and be able to take up jobs and pay for their own workers, but they have, in the meantime, had to be guaranteed. That was the point of these extensions of the firefighting contracts for Elefsina and the maintenance of the submarines for Scaramaga, and that is where our intervention lies. Again, I wish to conclude by wishing that this will be the last time that we will have to proceed with such an intervention with these two quarterly extensions that we are giving with this amendment and that the two main production units of the shipbuilding industry in the country will be on their feet. I think we are too close to this. Until, however, we are giving this extension in order to continue the shipbuilding work and to make workers feel that the Government, in this case, and in this case the Hellenic Navy, which has a job to give them, covers and recognises, if you like, this effort for all this time. I would ask this House to agree - as I understand it, this amendment we tabled by the Minister has already been adopted by the appropriate minister - and to accept this amendment with these two provisions, which I think give the solution until a definitive solution has been found to the loose ends with the two shipyards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u70	I would again thank you, Minister, for in fact these three-month extensions which have come in recent times are, firstly, keeping the shipyards alive so that they can make the very important new start in this important shipbuilding sector. I am speaking with great experience because both shipyards are in the area I am serving. Honestly, with these extensions, you are able to make the shipyards live, to stand the workers, and I believe that very soon these shipyards will also follow the very important development and course of the shipyard of Syros. Mr. Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u71	First of all, I have to tell the Minister that we will vote on this amendment, but I have three - four questions. The first question came to the end when you closed. You said that the Minister responsible had approved the amendment. I'm telling you, he's signing it. So what did he approve of? The rapporteur, the Minister, either accepts the Minister's amendment when he does not sign it, or has signed it and has obviously accepted it, as he proposes. Anyway. Now we're going to three more. The first is a question and a little irony. Are these submarines, Minister, that have been ageing and you have not received them, those which are today contributing to the defence of the country and which ensure that we are supremacy in the Aegean Sea? Because we've heard a lot. We've heard too much. And here we say we won't forget what we've heard. Why say, say, say, "Political opponents are hitting us in an open way." In fact, one of those who were mainly hit, became a great minister of the previous government. We will not forget the phase of the old submarines, as we will not fail to say that these submarines give us strength to face the threats of the neighbouring country. We have dealt with both shipyards, both with Scaramaga, which has many legal problems and obviously with Elefsina. We have asked Ministers to come here, - I was responsible for the country's defence movement at the time - all the SYRIZA ministers who had responsibility for the defence industry had come here to tell us about developments and Mr Pitsirlas from one point to the next. Good mood is specific. We want to have two answers today. Firstly, on the Elefsina issue. There's a delay. Meanwhile, they heard a number of words, that this will not go any further, that perhaps there are second thoughts of the investor, etc. We want you to tell us whether these things have gone back or have never been and everything is progressing properly. My last question is about the Scaramaga shipyard. Having been involved, as a relevant Member of Parliament again, I had been informed - and now a year and a half since - by discussing with Mr Pitsorla in the relevant committee that there are problems which are being raised before an arbitration, by the previous owner and, at that time, it was said that the arbitrations would be in his favour. I don't know. I haven't watched them since. We would like to hear about the Scaramaga shipyard, which - we agree with you - is a key shipyard for many reasons and economics. Finally, Minister, this is not a question - for workers there are not only the current ones, which are regulated by your amendment, but there are also those employed. We have heard that the investor sees this positively. However, I am aware that no relevant contract has been signed to cover it. If I'm wrong, please, I need a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u72	Before I give the Minister the floor, to answer, Mr. Loverdo, to you. The amendment is signed by three ministers, if you have seen it, by Mr Stavoura, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Panagiotopoulos. Mr. Panagiotopoulos is the one who has the knowledge and anguish so that the work for the Navy can be completed. So the accelerating Minister, who is the Minister of Finance, is the signatory of the amendment. So there's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, that is what we said!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u74	I'll clarify it for us to be okay. The Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I should like to give Mr Loverdo some answers. Of course, the issues it raises are interesting. First of all, I should like to say something to definitively and irrevocably destroy the myth of the old submarines, since I had also financed a member of the Committee of Inquiry which examined the projects and the days of four or five ministers who handled the submarine conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u76	For the "floor coffins"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u77	And so much more! During the term of office of all, there have been some stages of receiving partial or complete evaluation or certification of the systems in which they had to operate for these submarines. These submarines have never been aging or rather correcting: The first of them, the original in some open sea tests under certain, specific conditions and specific conditions at sea is over five bottos - if I am not deceived - has presented a inclination, something perfectly normal for a prototype...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u78	Which sea?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u79	The North Sea. It was completely normal for a prototype ship. Same as he hadn't been built until then. It could therefore be done with the Belhara now manufactured in the French shipyards, but it is not fried by submarines. In any case, I tell you so that you can understand the concept of the original. So present these little problems. It was completely normal - as I told you - for a prototype ship. The interventions in question have been corrected, this minimal inclination has been corrected. From the moment they were received and joined the service structures of the Navy, they were in excellent condition and without any inclination apparently or any other problem, as is the case with all the originals. Of course they proved their value as actors in the field in the recent crisis. They are still looking for them to be found by the relative forces of the Turks because of the special features of promotion. They have one - if I can say so schematically - silently and are not perceived by helicopters or planes or ships looking for them. So, yes, I think we need to get over this nonsense about the underwaters that grow up. I do not raise the question of whether they have cost a price or not. But it was the absolutely essential weapons that our Navy needed, and that even applies to our day. From there we go to the other questions. You have asked me whether the process for completing Elefsina's investment is progressing or is delaying. I explained - and when I took the floor - that we have some procedural issues. In other words, there will be a resolution plan for the company in court, for creditors will consent because it is necessary, and with the approval - as I believe - of this resolution plan, it will also be the DFC, the American organisation providing investment funds for defence investment. The agreement exists, but it will be activated as soon as we pass this stage of judicial approval of the resolution plan. With the information I have, we are at the final stage of submitting this draft before the courts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u80	Is the workers' entrepreneurs in the contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u81	Workers - as you know - under the Navy agreement are paid 60% of their wages. Of course I could say that 20% of the workers are currently working on the two missiles. This is also another interesting aspect, but in any case in order to satisfy everyone, the agreement was that. I cannot tell you any details, because as far as I'm concerned, I am not supervising that process. I'm coming here to talk to you on behalf of the client, who's the Navy. And, as you can see, it is a customer who has no reason to feel too satisfied over time because of all these great delays in the implementation of the programmes. In recent months, however, perhaps because of the prospect of this integration of investment, the paces have improved and this is undoubtedly due to the workers. I'm not questioning it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u82	Haven't you seen the contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u83	I haven't seen the contract, probably the resolution plan to be submitted to court. I haven't seen her, but I know that the new investor's aim is to move in the next, near future, so that we can get it over with. With Scaramaga, the situation is somewhat different. As far as I know - as you know - the shipyards are in liquidation. At the same time, however, there is also an international dispute with the former owner, which has led to a number of decisions by the international arbitration court. But the process is going on there. Therefore, all we have to keep here is that the liquidation process is being completed and from there on the competitive process of finding an investor. I don't know if there'll be any developments. I imagine it will depend on a future decision of the referee court. In any case, however, the Greek Government will take advantage of the efforts to find a solution in order to go to one - to say it - a purely next day for the Scaramaga shipyards. And this information I give to you irresponsibly, but it is the ones I have at my disposal at the moment. It is our viewpoint of the Ministry of National Defence that is interested in the completion of the programs that have to do with the support of the Hellenic Navy and with the intensification of the integrity of the Armed Forces. As I have said, the procedure in both shipyards is supervised by the relevant ministries of development and finance. But I can tell you that I expect that by the end of the year we will probably have to complete and pass - we all hope - on the next day not only of the two shipyards but also of the shipbuilding industry in our country as a whole, with all that that means in support of the Navy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Zetta Makrei will now be given the floor from New Democracy. He is then Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA and then Mr. Athanasios Pafilis as the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, obviously the topicality is critical of many and also serious initiatives to be taken lately, both for our national and sovereign issues and for the effective response of the health crisis, but also in general for any exceptional circumstances such as the recent theorem that we have been discussing here last week. However, under no circumstances is the Government's attempt to make structural changes suspended, in order to improve the country's productive model, to change the culture and culture and to strengthen the dynamics of the Greek economy. This uninterrupted, methodical and timely reformist effort leads the government to suggest that we as parliamentarians also judge and support positively Thursday, within six months, the Ministry of Finance's initiative, this further shielding the legislative framework for the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing. This draft law incorporates the fifth European Union directive on the restriction and future prevention of two of the most serious economic crimes, which are also linked not only to each other, but also to another series of equally serious offences, such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, trafficking and tax evasion. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The Legislative Initiative of the Ministry of Finance strengthens and modernises the existing law, Law 4557/2018, in order to ensure financial stability and to enhance transparency, by allowing access to registries and available information for the identification of the traders. This is guaranteed, among other things, by a series of actions. A central register of real beneficiaries for corporate and other legal entities shall be established, set out criteria for transactions with high risk third countries, limit the anonymity, strengthen the cooperation of the relevant bodies at national and European level, regulate the provision of foreign exchange services between virtual currencies and currency documents, regulate the provision of digital purse guardian services, and establish a specific list for politically exposed persons setting out the precise tasks that constitute a public operation. And here, after the proper intervention of the President-in-Office, the Minister has given the necessary explanations once again. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government's reformist move is more imposed than ever. This is because the effects of money laundering appearing in a dire, but significant number of transactions and suggest criminal behaviour have developed economic, political, social, moral. It is not only limited to narrow domestic geographical limits, it is also about the European and internationalised environment in which we are also involved. For this reason, in order to shield the European banking system, a coordinated, intensive, coherent and close cooperation with international bodies, the European Commission, as well as with national regulatory, judicial and police authorities, should be needed, and the increasing potential of digital technology for controlling financial transactions should necessarily be exploited. Since the 1980s, the fight against money laundering has been prioritised for governments and judicial authorities in many countries around the globe, as the financial system has been used and used as a 'global horse' to implement this practice. This has led to a serious disruption in the solvency and stability of the involved financial institutions, as well as in the credibility of the banking system as a whole, resulting in the loss of the citizens' confidence in it. The longest is the list of such practices that came out in the light of publicity, and unfortunately, welcoming, as I said, the citizens' confidence: The only two weeks ago by the International Association of Journalists for the Possible Participation of Banks like Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan, HSBC and others in the circulation of suspicious funds over $2 trillion in the period 1999-2017, the two-year ending of the activities of the European Banks' annexes to Baltic countries, because there were suspicions of money laundering, the recent dismantling by the French prosecution authorities of a terrorist organisation that used to a large extent the new technologies that allow the use of virtual currencies, the production and arrest of eleven businessmen from the Greek prosecution authorities in Kalamata last May, with the category of money laundering. In order to counter and discourage the conduct of such illegal activities, it is therefore unresolved and continuous that national solutions should be given to an international problem, with governments taking regulatory action, in cooperation with the competent supervisory authorities of credit institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against economic crime is a primary issue in the public interest, national and European. This will be ensured by voting on the draft law under discussion from all the groups of Parliament, because so we will give a signal to society that, despite all the great, but also the small, everyday difficulties and the different political starting points, we are always ready to strengthen the transparency of economic transactions and we also want the legitimate use of the European Union's financial margins and capabilities, with the necessary adaptation of our legal framework and the continuous and dynamic shielding of our banking system. Only in this way will we guarantee citizens' trade, regain confidence, improve the quality of democracy, and ultimately do our political duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mrs Matutes, and especially for keeping time. As always, you're in time. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the financial space includes many parameters involved among themselves and, in addition, under certain conditions, it produces interrelated and corruption relationships. The draft law incorporating the Community directive on combating money laundering and terrorist financing and introducing amendments to Law 4557/2017, which is the main national legislation for this purpose, aims to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing and to strengthen transparency rules. It seems that the existing provisions are being strengthened and the existing framework is being tightened up. It is certainly not the only attempt internationally and at European level. However, we must not be illusory in terms of the completeness, adequacy and effectiveness of these efforts, since the current economic system itself, in the case of neoliberal capitalism, is moving in the opposite direction, and governments of the same direction are moving in the opposite direction. This does not mean, of course, that efforts must not be continued and supported politically and socially. In recent years, research reports have been made public by international, European and other researchers on money laundering and other illegal practices, as well as by these bodies. It is clear from this that huge sums of these suspects, these illegal activities are being handled through banks. Large banks have already been mentioned, where there is a huge amount of money coming from these illegal activities: $ trillion worth of money coming from criminal activities. As the 'TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL' says, this is only the tip of the iceberg. This shows that even if there is an adequate legislative framework, there is a question of the effectiveness of the control mechanisms. The banks are doing little research at all, when they are 'prone' to great interests and, in any case, are delaying. What does it have to change? There must be a legal framework that prevents, encloses offenders and other factors facilitating such activities. It is necessary to review the way in which money laundering is handled by relevant officials. In Europe more than fifty authorities supervise money laundering, but the results are not what should be done. The directive, which is currently being legislated, although it is not going to solve the problem, is a step in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as our country is concerned, I should first like to remind you that the incorporation of the directive into the current draft law runs counter to regulations which the current government, the New Democracy government, has adopted, but also to the practice of banks from the past. Let us remind ourselves of the practices of the Greek banks with loans to the media, to the 'Karykas' - so that we do not forget about the new Republic and PASOK, which are, of course, ignored. Another regulation that you have promoted was the discharge of bankers, since they are required to be prosecuted by the administrations of the banks, i.e. by the bankers themselves. Furthermore, you have recently adopted a provision, gentlemen of the New Democracy, in the Criminal Code amending paragraph 5 of Article 42 of Law 4557/2018. The provision stipulates that the freezing of financial crimes products, accounts, mobile, immovable, etc. - ordered by the Hellenic Anti-Counterfeiting Authority of Criminal Income may not exceed eighteen months. This change did not result from a European directive, but it was a political choice of the New Democracy. In fact, by this provision, persons suspected of criminal fraud and money laundering are regained frozen assets if they are not brought to a trial of eighteen months. It is obvious that there are strong interests controlled for infidelity and money laundering from criminal activities. A third element is the delay in denomination of the shares and especially the denomination of the shares of the media companies. It's obvious why this is happening. Finally, I want to make a reference to the legal safeguarding and protection of complaining workers, whether or not their complaints about illegal activities are confirmed. The Directive strengthens the institutional framework for the support of complainants, but it can be seen that there is a verse deletion of a previous law concerning the persons liable and laying down procedures enabling workers to report infringements internally, through a special independent and anonymous channel, comparable to the nature and size of the person liable. This deletion, which established anonymous channels that should exist, is deleted with the bill. And one last thing: I want to refer to Rule 32. It is unacceptable to set up a Committee of Lawyers, which will be responsible for collecting reports of lawyers for suspected or unusual activities and transactions related to illegal acts. It is neither the role of lawyers nor the competence of lawyers to assume such functions, nor the tasks of "supervisor" which come in conflict with the duty of professional secrecy laid down in the Code of Conduct. Finally, with reference to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour on retroactive core pensions, not subsidiarys, not gifts, not licenses, I would say that this amendment is in line with the word 'private term and has been common'. New Democracy's grand announcements go on to return all the reductions to pensioners on the basis of decisions of the CSR, which were imposed - let us not forget - by the laws of the New Democracy. Indeed, claims for the sums due which are not repaid, according to this bill, are amortised, a regulation which is unconstitutional, after abolishing claims and canceling the appeal of citizens to justice. So it is clear that the word “demonstrated mountain and poured it out” is transformed into a “demonstrated mountain and has placed an anti-constitutional monster”. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u88	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are one day before the trial of the Golden Dawn criminals. There was a conversation. I would like to refer to what Mr Velopoulos said, who is indeed condemned, but has also left some suggestions on the causes of the phenomenon, as he says, of the Golden Dawn, but also on what fascism is. I would advise him - I hope he hears - to go and read a dictionary, because it's deformity, saying that fascism is not just black, but it's also red. Fascism is black, black. What's fascism? It is the wildest, most inhuman - I will say so - form of political governance of capitalism. That's it. Who brought Hitler to power? Meeting of all major companies, "THYSSEN KRUPP" and many others one day, and the banks meeting the other in Hindenburg give their power to Hitler. Why did they do that? Because they thought he was the only one, at those times, who can run a war to get back the lost economic and geostrategic influence the Germans had. Who has backed fascism up to the last few days? Ford had him fretted. All the major American industries were powering steel - think, fundamental to the war! - until six months before the war ended because they had such agreements. So she's a genuine child of capitalism. Monopolys and capital, when they cannot with Parliament, when they cannot with others, are making fascism. That's fascism. It's a theory, it's an ideology, the darkest, most reactive one in the world, to be precise when we describe them. When you say black and red, regardless of whether Mr Velopoulos has excluded the JRC - thank you very much, but we will not take it, we do not want exceptions, we have won them with our history - regardless of what he did - just that view fuels the theory of the two extremes, acquitted fascism, as the European Union did after 1990: Pensions for SS officers in Germany condemned for war crimes, pensions in the Waffen-SSS in Latvia, people who hit the Waffen-SSS, who were the partners of the Germans and not in general and abstract, but Waffen-S, says so. Estonia: The Minister of Home Affairs celebrates his birthday, wearing Hitler's uniform in an underground theater, with Hitler's single-actor program before committing suicide. In a question we asked in the European Union, he answers 'we are not involved'. Same for the Waffen-SS. In 2006 an event with the European Union for the so-called 50 years since Hungary's counter-revolution, headed General of the Third Reich of the SS of this committee. So here's who woke up the fascism that was buried until 1990, anti-communism and the theory of the two extremes and equal responsibilities are the ones that woke up and nursing fascism, not to say about NATO for you that you are all sworn to. Over two hundred officers, top generals condemned for war crimes, served in NATO in the 1960 ’ s. Head of NATO's European branch was a German general convicted of war crimes. So here's who legalize fascism, here's why it's a genuine child of capitalism. We now go to the directive, it is the fifth that is incorporated into national law. The last day SYRIZA brought her, warm congratulations. Mr Alexiadis said "to, and something good that SYRIZA did" - you do not listen to me, Mr Alexiadis, and you will complain - that he brought the previous one. Where anyone comes, it is worse than the previous one, more reactionary and has all the phrases, money laundering and terrorist financing, as defined by the European Union and I will say below. Question: What have they all achieved so far? Nothing. Zero in clay, beyond some flares, sequentially. Were they able, in other words - on the first issue of money laundering - to show something to stop this laundering? Of course not. Oh, no. Why? Why isn't the way to black money, corruption, and everything else? Aren't there technical means? Does the Member States now not have the possibility? Why is it more forward, as the Minister said - and it has a basis, he told the committee - those of the states? Are they stronger or is something else happening? We say why it is a component of the capitalist system itself. Because the governments that serve and do not want, I would say, to deal with this issue, because they have to face the very basis, its roots. Because the law is the gain. They survive the means by means of the robbery, of course, the exploitation of workers and natural resources. Of course, this does not exclude the profitable circuits with which large monopolies are connected globally and at national level many times. Is this an exaggeration, that is, that the operation of capital as a whole is linked to all the illegality that you are all exorcising them? I will only give one example. I will not say either about drugs or prostitution or the transport of persons, etc., but about arms trafficking. Question: Who produces guns, ladies and gentlemen? They're corporations? Is it Valper, do you see, yes or no? How are these being handed over and sold illegally and illegally trade in arms? Can't you check it out? They don't know how much they're producing? They don't know which clients they're giving them? They don't know what those customers are doing? Why isn't this all done? It's unlikely that the illegal arms trade can be controlled, are you serious now? What are these industries? They don't know the states? They do not want to be controlled because it has a profit and even a great profit because it is sold at higher prices. Because they all have immunity, and it is even seen as a success. Do not look at what you are not officially saying, that they increase the range of arms sales and, of course, increase their economic profits. So what kind of black money are you talking about? Tell me a company of German, English, Czech, American, etc., caught in illegal trafficking and we're not talking now about guns and automatic guns, we're talking about weapons far more advanced. Can't these be controlled by governments? And what are you telling us here that they're going to control the black money? For us it's clean, and we're saying it, and it turns out that there's a legal way. Everything is legal now. Free movement of capital, no one controls anything, competition with offshore companies, tough competition, transactions with offshore, tax exemptions, immunity, tax havens. They've made it all right here. They also have in Europe - you know who they are - and they have in Asia - you know who they are - and they have the virgin islands and the Cayman Islands. Oh, really, can't that be hit by any government? Grenada, those who remember it, which was a small island, were evened by the Americans on one night. Where they're parked trillions, can't they control them and do something? They don't want to control them, because they're using them to pack their profits. You will tell us 'Well, the system is okay, but the JRC does not want to be fought under the system'. Of course we want and have made numerous proposals. Example. First sentence, denomination of all shares with a natural person. Do you accept it? No, no government. Because then it ceases to be an anonymous company and anonymous participations. So it hits the root of the operation of the capitalist system. Second sentence, strict control of capital movements. Do you want it? Oh, no. But the European Union is saying four freedoms. No government wants to do that. What else? Check on public securities, repealing bank confidentiality, banning transactions with offshore. This is not socialism, because socialism will abolish this. Does any government accept these? Oh, no. Why? Because they are the foundations of the system itself, so we say there is no cure for the system. It's not healed, it's not humanized, it's only overthrown. Because a system based on injustice, the exploitation of human beings by human beings, war, destruction, etc., does not understand or humanize. That is why it needs to be overthrown and build another society. The second side of the bill, the fight against terrorism. Firstly, to determine what terrorism is and what the European Union says. Is that the Islam? Is that ISIS? Is it Al-Qaeda? Are the various Islamist groups and some marginal aristist groups? So here's what he says about the radicalism that is the nursery. Three, he says, are the forms of radicalism. Right-wing thinking, left-wing thinking, radicalized Islam, all together in a bag. So, what does it say about left-wing thinking? Their view, he says, of society means a commitment to equality and redistribution of income. Do you hear me? In other words, when you ask for equality from people - whoever works to be paid with what he makes - when you ask for the redistribution of income, you are a listener and a nursery of terrorism. That's what he says. Let us not say now that the same thing has to be said about Christianity. They reject the underlying capitalist values which are considered the main cause of social inequality. Why is it the cause? Has the wealth not concentrated on over 60% of the world's population? So that's a incubator of terrorism. They are opposed to the established political and economic elite. And that's a incubator of terrorism. In addition - and here is the take-off - they are opposed to the growing privatisation of education, health and transport and to the international free trade agreement. This is a incubator of terrorism. You've voted for them. And SYRIZA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me my second language, I will finish. Minister, I'll say it right now. You may say and believe that everything you put in cannot be linked to the functioning of unions, but other things the European Union and you may not be doing it at all or you may not have it in your minds at all, but in evolution we know what is going on and how it can be used. Is there funding for terrorism? Of course there is. Do you want to find the funding? To call it open and raw now. Look into the CIA's secret funds. Who made the Taliban? Who financed them? He admits it themselves and, indeed, Brezinski, when he was asked after the twin towers "now you're regretting this development," he said, "no, we don't regret financing and arming the Taliban, why was the overthrow of the Soviet Union predicted." It was a statement. Who made ISIS? You don't know them? Who financed him, the trade unions, political parties, or the countries, your allies who have them here now, and you're enchanting them? There are states that have been openly denounced. Where were ISIS strains trained? Is it in France or California - the FORT KNOX? - where is the training of special forces? That's all proved to be true. So if you want to catch the financing of this terrorism, which is blind, etc., catch your allies. Is it or isn't it? Get out and answer us. Do you want to go further? When they shot Alient with the truck drivers' strike, it was organised by ITT, which belongs to the CIA. And when we said that this was the case, you said we saw ghosts everywhere. He went out then and wrote out a book about how they threw Aleente, how many billions they threw, etc. Do you want to go somewhere else? Where should we go? Who has built these organisations? Who's been inside and checked on people who had this desperate road? There's a whole story. You're coming now and what are you doing? First you opened the way, Mr Chakaloto, with the previous one, and that's right that he said, in fact, it just didn't apply. We have - he says - a real beneficiary of the trade unions, political parties and people's organisations. Well, don't you know that the unions have boards, that they're making elections and changing? You don't know that? So, you're throwing Law 1264 into the trash? That's what you're doing right now. This law says that the trade unions have autonomy, are controlled by the judges in terms of state. This is not controlled by the judges. They are also on the list of terrorist financing and money laundering. They shall be audited by the judges and audited by an election committee which they have, by senior trade unions, etc. Don't you know they can't have individual accounts? Don't you know that if a union closes, his property based on Law 1264 goes to the federation, the senior trade union? So what's the point? What transparency? What does openness mean? Everyone enter and see who's members of the syndicate, so the employer can kick their ass next day? Where and where? And are you all talking about personal data and voting on both hands of this directive? What do we have? General freckles, who's traded and where? That's what we'll actually have. All figures in the state and not in the state, but in the MICROSOT, which has nothing to do with the US Government nor with the monopoly nor anything. Tell us a reasonable answer to link the law on terrorist financing and money laundering to the trade union and popular movement. Not to mention the parties, because their turn can come too. There goes the Constitution, is everything going? Doesn't the trade union movement have autonomy? Are you talking now about non-interference in justice, which is where all the governments are intervening, and here you go and squeeze in? You're saying if he doesn't give it up, you'll cut them off. Why, are they yours? In unions, the workers pay, nobody else pays. They pay the subscriptions and pay for holidays and do whatever events they want. Take them back. That's what we say, take it back, or you'll find it all in front of you. Finally, I saw - where my friend Typhoon is, I don't know if he believes it - flashing left and passing through New Democracy from the right. "Law and order," he says. That's what he said. He has used some unacceptable real changes made by the New Democracy, but for them he has spoken. About what we said now, no one has spoken in here. Do you all accept them? Are you really on the point of destroying any autonomy that the trade union movement can have? We're saying it won't pass, just like it didn't go through much. You'll find them in front of you. The JRC calls on all workers to reject what is unprecedented. They are - I will say this - and these concessions made by urban democracy toward workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Heta, Mr. Chakalotos has asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u92	I would like the floor for a minute to reply as a parliamentary representative to something said about our President and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u93	First of all, we are going back to ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u94	Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u95	It wasn't personal. A different approach has been made to the concept of fascism by your President and by Mr Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u96	Political criticism was...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would like for a minute to speak. I'd have said it all this time. Do not behave like that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u98	You'll get the floor in a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u99	We'll ruin our hearts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u100	I'll give you the floor in a moment. There's no staff here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u101	How is there no staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u102	You will be given sufficient time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u103	There's a personal one and there's a misunderstanding of what I said, a distortion of truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u104	You'll be given time. I repeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u105	But that's what I'm telling you. I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u106	Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Chakatte, can I please take the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u108	Immediately after you will be given time to speak. Mr. Heta, I will not cut you off. You will be able to answer. There can't be any staff to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, there is a confusion here again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u110	Let's go again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u111	Not again, Mr President. You're only selective...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u112	Do you want to speak as a parliamentary representative? You have time to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u113	I want to answer now. I have the right for a minute to answer Mr. Palhey.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u114	You will answer when you are given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u115	That's what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u116	You have time to answer. You will be given sufficient time. Mr. Chakaloto, have you asked why you should speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u117	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u118	No, there you go. Come on, Mr. Heta. You are given time as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, thank you. We could have avoided this, of course, because I don't want more than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, do I have to send the paperwork for the Rules of Procedure? The Rules of Procedure are being violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u121	Wait a minute, Mr. Kegeroglu. Have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u122	You're really violating the Rules of Procedure and you and the previous President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Kegeroglu, this on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u124	Listen, Mr. Kegeroglu. I think you're protesting unfairly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u125	The Rules of Procedure say that after the first six speakers, the Minister is asked to speak or only earlier if he intervenes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Kegeroglu, let me explain. It changed the Bureau and I had not been informed that you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u127	I didn't ask for any reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u128	The Secretariat told me you asked for him. What's the problem? There's no need for the voices. You will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u129	The Minister cannot speak and write to the former Members of Parliament! How long have you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Kegeroglu, you will be given the floor. Don't complain. You're shouting for no reason. As you know, the Parliamentary Representatives are ahead of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u131	I don't know that. Do the first six speakers speak beforehand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u132	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u133	The Rules of Procedure say that the Minister is taking the floor as a legislator for the bill or before the rapporteurs or after the first six speakers. Yeah? It says so. It is, of course, up to the general provisions to take the floor at any time, but for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u134	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u135	Rightly after he has spoken, parliamentarians are also asking, because he gives them the right, but the original violation unfairs the six speakers of the parties. You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u136	What kind of violation did I make, Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Buras, Mr. Athanasios, did the violation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u138	Hey, this is Mr. Buras. You should have told him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u139	Yes, but you continue with it. Will the first six speakers speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u140	The world isn't lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u141	Oh, I know, but we're planning on this, and I'm in another obligation at 14.30.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u142	I don't know if Mr. Bourras violated the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u143	Do as you like...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u144	...because I wasn't here, but you're protesting while we can have a nice climate. What's the point? Mr. Chakaloto, have you asked why you should speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u145	Mr. President, we said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u146	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Heta! Well, listen, we put things in place. There's no staff. You will be given the floor to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u148	Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u149	And please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u150	You're constantly firing on us! You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Heta, every time that's what you create me. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u152	No, we have personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u153	Nobody mentioned you. Please. It can't be done every time to raise us a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u154	That is not possible, Mr President. There's no way these things can't be done anywhere...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, we had reached a consensus on the absence of any misunderstandings, speaking at least two of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u157	Okay, I have no objection. All right, Mr Chakalotos gives two speakers his position. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor. You want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u159	Mr Heta, I am not giving you the floor because you have no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u160	That is not possible, Mr President. You can't do that! There has been a personal and distortion of truth, and I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u161	A different theoretical political approach was made to what is fascism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u162	So you're not giving me the floor, Mr. President? For God's sake! This is a suffocation, Mr President! That won't pass! And you do it all the time, you sneeze us! You have a problem with the Greek Solution! You're in trouble and you're sneezing at us! I have to answer, there's staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u163	From the Bureau there is no problem with anyone and you are not honoured by what you are saying. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u164	It's personal. There is your staff and personal towards the Greek Solution! We will now send a letter to the Bureau. That won't pass! I would speak for a minute, Mr President, and I would be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u165	We don't have to take measures. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu, get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u166	That's your attitude and be proud! We will now send a letter to the Bureau, because you do so all the time. And, Mr Paphie, I will answer to you in my speech. Because you see that this procedure is not a democratic process at all, unfortunately. I'm sorry to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u167	Isn't it enough I took care of you and you want to answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Heta, from what you say, there is nothing written in the Minutes, nor does anyone see you or hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u169	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u170	Don't answer that, Mr. Paphie. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, listen, we have this when the Rules of Procedure are violated by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u172	I didn't break any Rules of Procedure and I don't know what happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u173	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is improper as it says that the rapporteurs are speaking in the legislative work. If the rapporteurs want the Minister who suggests the bill to take the lead, but if he does not take the floor before the rapporteurs, he will be taken after the first six speakers. Can you keep this in mind so that this phenomenon doesn't happen again? Why does the Rules of Procedure say so, the wise who have instituted them? Because, after the Minister's speech, the parliamentary representatives are given the floor, so the procedure of the House is being altered. Before then, the first six speakers, not a reason for the ministers. Okay? Unless otherwise agreed. Why would I continue to object to the Rules of Procedure? Do you think I'm a maniac by keeping the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u174	Mr Kegeroglu, I have explained that I do not know what happened to the previous President-in-Office, who, too, I believe, respects the Rules of Procedure. And if there's a tolerance at some point, the world isn't lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u175	So we've been patient with the violation, we've been patient again. So it is customary that even after the six will change the word and the MPs enter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u176	The Rules of Procedure say many other things, which are not respected, but there is a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u177	Yes, yes, because you do not observe the others, you said today not to observe the Rules once again! When the procedure escapes, Mr President, and we are talking about a procedure, then let us talk about the substance. If you want, to the slightest extent, to keep him. And it's not my personal subject, I'm saying it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u178	We are all trying to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u179	I'll say it again. The violation was initiated as the Minister was given the floor before the first six speakers. It's over! Admit it. Say once you've made a mistake! Say it once! Have you said that? You always make the wise man! You always have the infallible! But there's always a mess in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Kegeroglu, repeat the same thing. I didn't lead, I don't know what happened. But if there was a slight derogation, the world wasn't lost. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u181	Minister, as far as I can do as I can in the context of the procedure, I will raise the issue of the situation in the world, of course, but also in our country, with the banks. It has been revealed in the previous period that Deutsche Bank and a number of other banks are making money laundering and we would like an update on this. Isn't there a briefing on that? Is the directive coming to cure this weakness of the previous system? But given the actions of Deutsche Bank and the other banks, this is a question that you have to answer to us, to see whether this directive and the provisions, as they incorporate, are really capable of dealing with this problem. We have, of course, said yes to these provisions, although it seems that the channels for such practices are too many and are not closed with this directive. We also have in our country, however, other illegal practices by the banks and I put it in introductory form, because others are legal, legal, others are illegal practices, which make use of loopholes in legislation. I will tell you that we have the phenomenon of antagonism with every regulation, which banks are even looking at the contribution of 0.6%. Even 0.6% are picking it up. We have not twice and three times, which a law said twenty years ago, that up to twice or three times the loan will reach all interest and pandemics, etc., but now we have multiples, things are completely out of order. You need to see the issues of bank unfair practices in relation to borrowers. Last case, I have a specific complaint, which I will present to you to examine. While the Association of Greek Banks announced on 11 September 2020 that there will be a rule for dealing with very weak, in relation to the first home auctions, the Prime Minister announced in the Thessaloniki Exhibition on 12 September and the relevant directive has been issued to the banks, a borrower belonging to the vulnerable groups, who fulfils all the criteria of the common ministerial decision, such as I checked them, made to the National Bank a specific request, which without justification he said was rejected. ‘Why is it rejected?’ He's asking. They're not answering. So it has been sent to the Ministry and to all the parties - and I will put it in the Minutes to consider - a protest by the particular borrower, who asked for what? A postponement of the auction in the next few days because it can, first of all, be subject to the arrangement, as it meets the criteria for the grant of the instalment and, furthermore, has an appeal in connection with a judicial decision with No.3869. So he asked for self-evident, and because he met the conditions set by the circular, I would ask you to see it. In other words, we are getting to the point where the Minister has to deal with the unfair practice of each bank. That is why I am telling you that we need an institutional framework more stringent so that we do not have these phenomena. The Minister of Labour is here, he said, he's gone. However, it has not yet had the arrangements it had to bring before October on the suspension. What is the case with the suspension for workers at this time? That they will in theory be able to obtain the compensation of EUR 534. No, no, no, no, This has not been the case. What about workers who have been made redundant in the previous period and who either have or do not have the fifty meanings provided for by the law should live and survive? Is the arrangement for seasonal workers coming? To know that in real life there are people who have worked last time in September or October 2019 and will regain jobs in tourism if things go well, in April or May 2021, two years without income. So there is a need to deal with this problem. The Ministry of Labour also has the welfare sector, as well as the insurance sector. It has everything as a framework for social protection. What will he do? Is there going to be an arrangement? I come to the point of the retroactive amendment. There is one issue to the Katorugalou law, and that explains why the Katorugalou law has changed the way pensions are calculated and legally from there and beyond there are no issues that have to do with retrospective, cut-off or anything else. They are not regarded as cuts from there and beyond on the basis of a system which was in place, but which is seen as another institutional framework, an institutional framework which the New Democracy had denounced with us, but an institutional framework which has maintained intact. In fact, the European Union's report really confirms it and says that we have the Katrugalou law. On the substance of the regulation, unfortunately, there is a pseudo-interpretation of the decision of the Council of State. The Council of State says "return the retrospectives of the eleventh month" – June 2015 to May 2016 – "concerning the cuts in Law 4051 and Law 4093/2012 to main, subsidiary, gifts and licenses". The government with its pseudo-interpretation of what she says? Only for pensions above EUR 1 000 the cuts in Law 4093 and Law 4051. In the public sector, not even worse, only returns the cuts of Law 4093. In any case, however, this regulation does not concern - it throws the pensioners under 1,000 euros, which is a million and a half people, and they have no right. The worst thing, of course, is also for those who give them these few things, as has been said before by our Parliamentary representative, that they are being blackmailed and said that they are losing the right to any claim, not for those who are, but for others. They lose other rights if they exercise this right that this legislation gives them. It is a scourge, in fact, this blackmail, which, unfortunately, today comes with a lot of horror. The micro-retired people, Mr Minister, Mr Brutsi, - for whom you have accused us of insisting on and that this is populism - have suffered the greatest injustice as weak people by abolishing the CSCE. The fact that SYRIZA abolished it doesn't give you an alibi. The fact that SYRIZA did not give you the retrospectives you said earlier to Mr Tsakalotos when he had the decision of the Court of Auditors does not give you an alibi for what you are doing. It doesn't give you an alibi! The fact that, by signing Mr Haikalis, SYRIZA - ANEL the lower pension threshold, and today we have degrading disability pensions of EUR 120 and EUR 180 and regular pensions of EUR 250 and 280 does not give you the right to invoke this as an alibi that others did and do not restore the law. Because that is why we have been talking and spoken all the time, but you have made use of it in the past, you have promised that you will restore the injustices, especially the micro-retired people, and since you have become government, only partially deal with the pensioners over 1,000 euros, and indeed, as I have said, with extortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u182	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u183	I shall conclude, Mr President, by calling on the Minister for Labour to bring about a regulation now which restores injustice against all pensioners and at least removes the provision that blackmails them that they are not entitled to any more. It is unacceptable that what is currently happening with a lot of drumcrossing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u184	Good evening, you and me. Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a little comment on the preliminary draft budget. Obviously, we will discuss this in committee when the time comes, but I could not comment on your predictions, but on how to deal with the overall situation in the economy. Looks like you don't understand anything. Your predictions are over-optimistic, and you are not bringing any economic aid plan and shielding citizens and their incomes. You will expect the European programmes to see how the economy will react, no liquidity debate, no real aid debate, and all this, if your assumptions for the pandemic are verified, but also the European planning of the Fund. If there is a deterioration in the health crisis - which we are all abstaining on - if the planning and disbursement of funds is delayed, then what will happen? Wages are falling down, private consumption is falling back and instead of supporting the job, you are shooting at it all the time. I'm going through the bill. It is a fact that among the major problems of controlling money laundering are coordination, use of information and control. There is also the institutional and audit framework that imposes the rules. In today's bill we have amendments to prevent and combat money laundering, terrorist financing and introduce amendments to Law 4557/2018, which is the main national legislation for this purpose. When we incorporated the previous directive, we found that the measures taken until then did not take account of international coordination and had limited effects. The incorporation of Directive 849 required a series of amendments to the existing law, so it was appropriate to resolve the replacement of all the money laundering provisions of Law 3691/2008. It is worth saying a few of his main points. An effort has been made to curb black money flows through the use of due diligence measures in the transfer of funds of more than EUR 1,000 in cases of trade where an amount of EUR 10,000 or more is moved. The definition of money laundering was given. The responsibilities of the central coordination body, which is the Ministry of Finance, have been redefined. The Special Register of Real Beneficiaries was created by the corporate and other entities based in Greece, as well as the Register of Real Rights in the General Secretariat of Information Systems, which is linked to the GEMI of the Ministry of Economy. The new framework introduced by the new directive therefore amends some of the points in Law 4557. Its main points include the framework for the encryption and the framework for the persons liable for the trust. With regard to the trust, Greek legislation does not recognize the trust, so the article will apply to similar legal persons where they are of common interest. I would just like to make one point about the encryption, because, in essence, there is neither a specific operating framework here. Incorporation into Greek legislation is made in terms of trade and exchange, hence the supervision in Article 5, is granted to the Securities and Exchange Committee. However, since the encryption is a potential currency, even for exchange value, I will ask again why the Bank of Greece is not involved or why you preferred to be supervised in the Securities and Exchange Committee. It is understandable that encryption is digitally imprinted value, which is not issued by the Central Bank or by the public authority, nor is it necessarily linked to currency lawfully circulating. Nevertheless, if I remember correctly, we tried to introduce these amendments earlier in the previous amendment, but we did not go far enough, as the relevant bodies were consulted. And if I understand it again, it seems to have ended up. That is precisely why I am asking, not as criticism, Minister, but as information. Secondly, and in view of the above, are you planning a more specific context for encryption? I remember that, since 2018, he has been employing both the tax administration and the wider. There are examples of countries that have made progress on the tax side, which forces greater transparency and also research and studies find that large amounts are being moved, with thousands of euros moving from bitcoin to euros or other foreign currencies. The views and practices per country are enough. But I suspect that the direction you are giving is perhaps not the right direction. I would like to make a comment on Article 16. I understand that you are trying to provide a functional solution to the issue of registered data, and above all who are responsible for registration. A number of colleagues have referred to this point. In Article 16 there was a broad reference to corporate entities and not only entities, which are obliged to keep data in the special register. The General Secretariat of Information Systems had issued a circular and established exactly what these entities are and, above all, what are excluded, such as all bodies from the General Government Registry, companies and legal entities listed in a regulated market that are not liable in an income tax statement. Now, with this amendment and the addition of Article 6 of the Income Tax Code, I have the impression that more problems might arise for who ultimately maintains data on the register and who does not. Keep this, Minister, as an honest observation. Last comment on Article 28. The amendment is introduced in accordance with the law and the recital in order to strengthen the procedure, reliable disclosure of information, as there have always been cases according to the reasoning of the directive, where workers have been exposed. That's it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your tolerance, I'm going to need some more time. However, the existing provision deletes the text which defined anonymous channels, which should exist, so that officials can report their suspicions and internal infringements. Here we have an important disadvantage in protecting employees who want to do so, but they cannot report anonymously. What exactly does that mean and how do you mean to strengthen the safe process of disclosure of information? The rapporteur has also been mentioned. In fact, the provision in the consultation that you have tabled established similar procedures with No 2928 and the protection of witnesses, that is, you have taken a step further - and, rightly so, I shall say - from our own rules. What broke through and eventually not only did you not add your own verse, but did you remove ours, too? Ladies and gentlemen, in the period 2017-2019, we have made huge efforts to keep up with international conditions and to protect the interests of the public and citizens. These efforts are also reflected in the FATF report, as in June 2019 our country's assessment of financial action in relation to international recommendations and the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing was completed. Based on the evaluation then, our country has joined the normal monitoring process, which has achieved only a limited number of countries worldwide. At the time, the Greek media spoke about recreational trips of the Ministry's team, under the Secretary-General of Economic Policy, creating mistaken impressions in a pre-election period, but the truth is that the conference in Orlando, the United States of America, sealed up these very processes that I mentioned above. The importance of this report and evaluation, now you recognize it too, as shown by the Ministry's Press Release on September 3, 2019. We're happy about that. The importance of this piece of legislation is undeniable as a tool not only for the moment, but primarily as an axis of operation of prevention mechanisms, as - unfortunately - international trends in money laundering tend to evolve rapidly. How these tools will be used depends also on the political will to strengthen control mechanisms and not on their manipulation or inactivation, which we are not sure we can expect from the present government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Papanaceu. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would just like to say a word about the preliminary draft budget and if you can tell us and when we will discuss it in the committees. The Minister of Finance and the whole economic group - not only yours, but ours and all the economic groups - have a problem when making predictions between optimism and pessimism. We all know as economists that the predictions, what the world expects really affect, are a material power. So you should always think not to create pessimism or optimism, to have a realism. It's not always easy, but I think you've been overdoing it in the preliminary draft. I think that the way these things are solved is that in the preliminary draft you put down what we say the baseline scenario, neither too optimistic nor too pessimistic, so that there can be a debate. We'll talk about it in committee. But I do think you have not tabled the base scenario, but the most optimistic scenario and that comes out of the debate in the preliminary draft. It's not good practice. I understand why you could do this so that the world's optimism is not hit in a difficult situation, and that will affect the economy, but I think you have made a mistake and we will discuss it in committee. Now, we're getting to the bill. I want to say something about Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC. He did a whole analysis between capitalism, profit and illegal acts. And I agree with someone, I disagree with someone. He says Mr. Pafilis that it is an element of capitalism that money laundering and misguided acts are part of capitalism. And yes and no. In the first volume, in the second volume, in the third volume for capital, capitalists make money with the superprofit, without any illegal act. So in pure theory, you don't have to. In other words, there may be capitalism, says Marx in his "capital" without any illegal act. The capitalists don't make money out of the illegality, but the exploitation of the job. This - and here there is a bigger deal - does not mean that capitalists will not make money, if we let them, and illegal acts. In the twenty- thirty years of neoliberalism and from the centre-left, and from the centre-right, there was the idea that we were closing our eyes and not doing things to curb significant illegal acts. I remember, because I see in front of the people of the Movement, Lord Mandelson, Tony Blair's right hand, saying that we new Workers are completely comfortable with vulgar enrichment, we don't mind the film Rich, if you want it in English. This also showed a culture, a directive, that it was not on their priorities to limit the free initiative, even if the free initiative leads to illegal acts and economic crises, such as the financial crisis. So, it's also a matter of hegemony, I'd say to Mr. Pafile. If we want to limit the part of illegal acts, we should legislate on this basis. Over the last four to five years there has been a climate change since the financial crisis and to limit banks and to smuggling and money laundering and to enable businesses to get the profits where there is less taxation. "Is that enough?" Will Mr Pafilis tell us what the results are. No, it's not. But it is a question of hegemony to push things like this, and it is a matter of hegemony about what the definition of terrorism is, it is a matter of hegemony about what measures should be taken. Because, otherwise, if we tell the world that they have to wait for the end of capitalism to change these things, we will not be convincing. It's things that can be done. Therefore, due diligence measures are needed to ensure that a transaction does not have a risk of money laundering from criminal activities or terrorist financing, which does so. Provisions are needed for the exchange of information between the prosecution authorities in Greece and abroad. These are extremely important issues, because this money could go to the health system or to the education system and could be cut off from corruption and the funding of strong interests that this money is using not only for their own gain, but also for our own democracy. So this bill and these acts, and to bring more to discuss it, are issues for our economic policy, for resources to be available, but they are matters of democracy, that is, what money is, how this money is being used and for what reasons? I think Mr Zavvos is honest enough to say, and he has said in the past, that we have done much in this area and we have done so during our own governance. We did the Banking and Tax Accounts Cross-Bank Register, we did the General Secretariat for Combating Corruption, strategic planning against corruption, activation of the Strategy Committee against Laundry, which only existed on paper, substantial cooperation between the stakeholders. Of course, under the guidance of the General Secretariat for Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance, we have received a very good assessment on this issue, which - whoever you know - is very important to investors for the investment climate. But I am sad that for this very large task done by the General Secretariat for Economic Policy, which was between the Ministry of Finance and many other ministries and agencies, because it was a giant project, it used many civil servants who spent too many hours of their lives and weekends, and you did not use them afterwards. And I'm not talking about you, just the Treasury, I'm saying in general. This is not the ultimate and abstract state. Because they had something to do with the SYRIZA government, these civil servants, "frozen them". These aren't serious things. I find it and I know your views and tell you that if you want to have the image of the sovereignty and the state of excellence you are not doing right in this case. Take a look at it. I spoke to Mr Brutsi about the amendment. Mr. Loverdos also spoke. We have both raised the question that it is not possible when money is lodged to force me to renounce my legal rights for the others. We both put it with Mr. Loverdos. We didn't get an answer. Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Xanthopoulou will speak after me, who know the legal much better than I do. My legal knowledge usually doesn't exhaust the back of a stamp. It's much better for you to talk about it. Let me put you two other issues, Minister, because Mr Brutsi did not expect an answer. We're not used to Mr. Brutsi answering. I think Mr Brutsi is a little 'trabic'. Every lie he's saying falls behind his back like a drop of water on the back of a duck, and I think his attack is what comes on him, but you have another profile. So I say we have a register of real beneficiaries. For fourteen months, if I'm not wrong with you, you've done nothing about it. Why this delay? You do not give the impression that you are taking it upon you, to say the favourite expression of the memorials, which I fought very much, that you have the ownership of this reform, that you believe it. Secondly, it is the point that Mr Alexiadis has raised you, which was the part that was in the consultation and which actually gives a framework to workers who, in good faith, are concerned about some things, that these things can be manifested and who were in the consultation of the draft law and are now not. Mr Alexiadis asked you why - I was unfortunately unable to hear all your speech - but you did not reply to him. It's also a question of democracy, Mr. Alexiadis says. I'm tired of hearing it. I guess you guys are getting tired even more. But the man is right. He says it - he's tired of you and he's tired of us - because it happens all the time. It is not possible for Mr Alexiadis and other technical questions to be asked and not to be answered. He asked some technical questions, but that's not technical, that's essential. It is the essence of protecting the public space that a worker understands that if he sees something that is wrong, for reasons of public interest, he can have a way of manifesting it. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill cannot be our last word. Minister, a few years ago I had seen a BBC documentary about British tax efforts for England Revenue, which is Britain's AIA. An old official had said that the public sector always feels "outnumbered and outgunned". This was the expression that the private sector has more people, with more weapons, with accountants, with financialers, with lawyers, especially with lawyers. So the prosecutors always feel they're at a disadvantage. To deal with this, you also need regulations, you need laws, but you also need governments that believe in the public sector and governments that know that the main reason for their existence is to change the correlation of power towards the rich, the strong and those who want to play the game in their favor. This is the great importance, and I fear very much that with your neoliberal ideology, this attempt to protect the public space, you can face the strength of the private sector - which will always try, it will be a constant process that we have today - it will be very difficult to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u190	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much. In a minute, I will try to clarify a point which Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Papayatsiou have raised on a point which you say has been deleted. Well, no intentionally deleted from article 26 of Law 4557/2018. It just became a legal change. The setting is in two parts below. Note: First, Article 6(3) of Law 4557/2018, where it talks about competent supervisory authorities that establish effective and reliable mechanisms to encourage complaints. Secondly, Article 35(3) again of Law 4557/2018, which concerns the persons liable, says that 'they establish procedures enabling their employees to denounce internal infringements'. You see, there's been full coverage and there's not been any, but no intentional deletion. I would like to say something else because, Mr Chakaloto, for the second time, you are touching me on a sensitive area. You said that the Treasury was being outlawed by employees because it was someone else's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u192	I barely said that not necessarily the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u193	Yes, I wanted to tell you something about government policy and, above all, the Ministry of Finance. We are completely unagnostic about the political origins and beliefs of each official and I stress it. This is the inspiring policy and the policy that is being pursued. And you know very well that, for us, two are the important things about employees. Firstly, democracy and secondly, integrity. We do not care what has voted and what will be voted on in so far as the officials are - you know it well and I know it - they are fully committed to their work, they do their job and they can work undividedly. The Government considers as a fundamental element of the functioning of a favoured State the ability of employees to operate independently of governments and to have a continuity of state. I want to tell you that the first days I went and took over at the ministry, I talked to some people. They said to me: "You know, Mr. Undersecretary, we liked this Minister, several of you. We liked the previous one, PASOK and so on." I told them: "Bravo, continue to like whoever you want, whoever you've worked with. All we care about is continuing a joint effort and that is a single one." I am referring to this, because I consider it an extremely sensitive point. You're right, and you all know that our administration still has weaknesses. The government is doing everything, especially in matters of strategic importance, to stimulate, strengthen both the ministries and the independent authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, one second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u196	But please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u197	I would like to say that I agree with the analysis of the campaigns carried out in the banking and financial system approach, I would say, in previous years - I am glad to say, not only in Greece, but at global level - because they obviously did not understand something that I now think is a common conscience to both supervisors and governments, that the crisis is not right or left. The crisis in the banking system is based on the banking system itself. Here I am an analyst and analyst of Hyman Minsky's theory, which is the theorem of financial instability, a system which, like the earth, can create from within triumphs and vibrations. That is why, as in the case of earthquakes, we need earthquakes, so we need all those rules in the banking system, which include money laundering, banking supervision and supervision at European level, so that we can compensate for the frequent crises that the banking system will always face. And I say it's not a Greek issue, but it's a much wider matter. I'm stopping here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, there is a question here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u200	What is the question, Mr Alexiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u201	Very briefly, to understand, Minister, what you said. On page 60, in the repealed - amended provisions, there is the part that says in Article 28 of the bill, etc. ‘Additional, persons liable, etc.’. This is gone, as shown on page 60 of the amended provisions and if we go to page 100, which is Article 28, it does not exist. That is what we are telling you, that this particular does not exist in Article 28 and we ask why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u202	I told you that in our reading it has been removed from there, precisely because there are two other points that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u203	It's not the same, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u204	No dialogue. He answered you, Mr Alexiadis. People will judge. To give the floor to Mr Georgios Vlavo from New Democracy, who is also the chairman of the Committee on Production and Trade and has fled for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. We said not to testify, but we have to combine it all. Ladies and gentlemen, both our rapporteur and the Minister mentioned the bill in detail. I do not want to add anything about the substance. I have asked for the floor to be put to the vote on an amendment, namely, Amendment No 486 and specific No 79. This is an amendment that I tabled, which concerns the area of Laureate and Saronic and I had to table, because the officials of the Ministry of Finance had promised for many months that they would bring some sort of regulation, but that was not the case. It was a continuation of the promises from the previous government, when SYRIZA's colleagues took the lead, they said they proposed an arrangement to the then Ministry of Finance, but this arrangement never came, with the result that the citizens of the Municipality of Saronicos and the Municipality of Laureate being in a peculiar hostage. How is this hostage described? They are bound by a decision of 1872, the famous 1151 - the accuracy for four decisions of that period, 1868, 1872, 1876, 1878, 1878 of the Athens, Nafplio and the Ice Arrow - with which it was bound by vast areas in the wider area on behalf of the public. It was then a feasibility trial, since the Greek State did not want these regions to exploit, fall into the hands of a particular private person, if you like. But that decision has been typing the citizens since then. The late Miltiadis Evert came in 1977 and with the protests of the then Municipality of Keratea, with Law 719, as amended by Law 1160/1981, gave a solution for the citizens of the Municipality of Keratea. Because, at that time - it was not known that the problem was not raised by local bodies - it was not known that it exists in the wider region. And now, in recent years it has come from the Municipality of Saronikos, the area of Saronida, an area built with design, legitimized and in front of clerks on the side of the Public Building Company to come to show that the house is theirs. To those in charge all these years we have all been told on behalf of the citizens that they are right, but that they have not so far found it. And of course there was an extension until July. He was extended until 30 September for the suspension of the appeals. But now that this final date is already over, I have here subpoenas that are being filed for objections from 2-10-2020 and they're calling. Already these cards that I hold my hand are addressed to about two hundred people from Saronida who must come on 20 and 21 October in order to stand up to their objection and to prove that - as I said - the house that has been lawfully built is theirs, it belongs to them. And of course, in the end everyone is entitled, they have been spent, they have been afflicted, they are mostly upset, because what is self-evident, the Greek state cannot see and regulate it. No one can understand, no mind can digest why these people are afflicted. And there is no one, officially, to give an answer. I know, of course, Mr Secretary-General, that you do not have the competence of the issues I am discussing, so I would like to see the Minister responsible for this amendment come and sit on the substance of this amendment, not because it is my amendment, which is at least, very little of interest, to come to the point, in substance, of the problem, to the citizens who are waiting to hear a responsible voice. So I want Mr Stavros to come. I call on him from the Step of Parliament to come and commit to accepting or accepting this amendment or any other arrangement he thinks is better. And because some will claim and say: 'But Vlachos is now making reference to an amendment that is photographic'. It's not photographic. It is the answer to Resolution 1151 of 1878. As many areas as he photographed - if he photographed - this decision, these areas I propose that we release them today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And because someone will even say, and what I mean 'liberate now', I have another piece of paper, but it starts not to take time. I have paper from the Forestry that answers that his property is a field and at the same time the State Land Office tells him to attend the appeal that the Greek State is making against him to prove that his property is not a forest. In other words, the real estate company's office paper is not enough for it to be a field. There's got to be a trial. He has to pay. He needs to be afflicted. In other words, it is not possible to get the services together. That's the point. I would like - with this amendment, please, very much, accepting it - to end, finally, once and for all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And don't one think we're making a gift for these people. We are not giving them any extra right, we are simply telling them that, like all citizens throughout Greece, you will have the same rights and the same opportunities to defend your interests and you will not be scapegoat because there is a decision of feasibility - as I said - of the Court of Appeal of Nafplio, two centuries ago in substance. And we say this to people outside of the plan, but above all to people who have built lawfully, within the plan, with licenses and who have not been illegal at all, and today they cannot record, they cannot defend their property. Minister, please close, I would very much like you to contact the Minister. And I would like a very specific answer for what I have said. It is not the amendment in itself, it is the problem that remains unresolved. And because promises we have received many, I would ask that it is said to be very specific and time-defined in order to be trusted by the people who are listening to us. I, in my view, reserve myself with every means to come back, because this injustice cannot go on. And above all, I cannot continue to speak with arguments and do not get any specific answers. Finally, I'm asking for an answer. And if I'm wrong, I'll apologize. If I am not mistaken, please very much to hear what I am saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u206	Thank you too, Mr Vlacho.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u207	We support you, Mr. Vlavo. SYRIZA supports you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u208	I'm glad about that. Yes, you will. Other parties support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u209	We support it, vote on it, but he did not say so. I will give the floor to Boeotus, Mr. George Mulkiotis from the Change Movement. And then the Greek Parliamentary Representative Mr Constantine Hetas will speak. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u211	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u212	With the debate on this bill, the major issue that is being put to the vote today has to do with the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on pensioners' retrospectives. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately with this amendment, the Mitsotakis Government has once again pointed out that its aim is to cause many problems at the expense of the few and to systematically consolidate social automation for the benefit of micro-political purposes. Following the introduction of Article 114 of L.4714 of 2020, which contains the unacceptable amendment to the payment of retroactive claims to private sector pensioners at 64% and leaving aside the reductions in supplementary pensions and gifts contrary to what was defined in the recent decisions of the Council of State, the Government now comes and continues to falsify the decision of the Council of State and of public pensioners. At that time, the government, which proclaims at any time that it respects judicial decisions, established a refund to private pensioners of an amount equal to only the cuts in the main pensions made under Laws Nos 451 2012 and L 4093 of 2012, but leaving out of regulation over a million and a half low pensioners who will not receive a single euro. It also blackmailed them by expressly providing that, by paying the amount of the retroactives, any other claim by pensioners is amortised. With today's amendment, the leadership of the Ministry of Labour is doing the same thing, but it goes further: the pensioners of the public are returning ten-month cuts, but only those corresponding to Law 4497 of 2012 and not those corresponding to Law 4051 of 2012. The worst thing is that with the ultra haircut of the retroactive public sector pensioners it is also directly involved in the work of justice, since, not expecting the forthcoming decision of the Court of Auditors on the issues of the reductions in the pensions and allowances of civil servants, it prevents the judgement of the competent court concerning either the amount of claims or the length of claims. This amendment on retrospectives in the private sector, which, as we pointed out, has not only solved the problem, but also triggered a new wave of judicial claims both from those who were excluded and we are talking about a million three hundred thousand, as well as from those who have still pending trials. We also pointed out that the amendment which intervenes and restricts the legal effects of judicial decisions and, in fact, dismantles - legitimately indemnifies claims for damages which were decided by two plenary sessions of the Council of State - is a constitutional diversion and is virtuously violating the provisions of Article 1 of the First Additional Protocol of the ECHR. In tabling this amendment on retrospectives in the public sector, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors' plenary in its opinion fully confirms our allegations and warns the Government that this amendment is unconstitutional and violates Article 1 of the ECHR Additional Protocol. It also points out that aid to retired persons in the public sector as compensation actions is recorded in five years. It is important to think in the Court's opinion that, firstly, the legitimate claims of pensioners in the public sector are not amortised by the unconstitutional regulation of the amendment, only if there is a question of limitation and, secondly, that the limitation of these retroactives is five years, since they are compensation claims. On the basis of these choices, therefore, the government has two options: to respect judicial decisions and apply the legal effects as a whole - that is, a pension, subsidiary and non-refundable gifts - or otherwise to limit the legal effects of decisions as an uncontrolled authority by the rules of the rule of law, but also by violating constitutional law, as the Court of Auditors' opinion points out on the basis of established legal grounds, clear, specific and unequivocal. Minister, some remarks on Article 2. I would first mention that the title refers to the private sector and to the content of the provision. It includes pensioners in public law and legal persons governed by the same rules as civil servants in pension schemes, whether their pensions are borne by the private or the relevant institutions. That is not right and cannot be a title like that, it must be corrected. The amendment of Article 114 of Law 4714/2020 was also adopted on 30 July 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, they have not been able to go through sixty-five days and this article is being remodeled. Some time ago we voted for it, it was voted on by the House and it is amended, because two categories of pensioners of OTA and legal persons governed by the same status as civil servants were forgotten, whether pensions were borne by the public or by the relevant bodies. It is at least regrettable that the government's attempt to trigger social automation, turning the Greek society against pensioners who claim their rights, but also triggering the division of pensioners, since on the same subject the government legislates differently, other for the private sector and more for the public sector. The justification for this cut in public retrospectives is the strengthening of the country's defence, but also of course the pandemic. However, at the same time as it talks about the country's defence and pandemic, as a miracle the poster's geometrically advances are increasing, as well as the opaque ones and without any rational awards of the Pecha list. Really, aren't there any need for these cases? Is there a question of defense or a matter of pandemic? But in these cases does the government approve of spending money? That is the logic of the government which, unfortunately, only for pensioners, and especially for low-pensions, there is no money. The government therefore seems to have confirmed its choice not to respect legality with this amendment. It is quite clear that our parliamentary representative has said so. Clearly the rapporteur has said so. The government can say other things, but its practice is this: it does not respect legality. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the executive must respect the legality and principles of the rule of law, while fully respecting and applying the judgments of the Supreme Court, the Court of Auditors, as they have, and without deductions and without misinterpretations. Reductions in legality are not allowed in a favoured democracy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary will continue with actions. You cause this, you flood the courts and - if you like - to be the one-way to the justice of pensioners, not only for the eleven-month period, but also by the end of 2018. These struggles concern, on the one hand, a well-established claim of beneficiaries, as the Court of Auditors rightly points out, but, on the other hand, they also concern defending the principles of the rule of law and respect for executive power in legality, because no principle is above the law. It warns the Court of Auditors, Mr President, that the government, in its proposed amendment, intervenes not correctly in fundamental legitimate claims and rights, that the amendment to the regulations is incompatible and infringes Article 1 of the ECHR Additional Act and, of course, the regulation of the prohibition of retroactive and gift claims beyond the eleventh month is unconstitutional. However, we, as a legislator, must take these into account when voting for the amendment in question, as we see it, which, instead of solving the problem, leads pensioners with sole fault in the courts. And, of course, in the rule of law, like any authority, the rule of law always applies. Mr President, reality is irreversible to the government. The government, after this amendment, leaks through the friendly media that it will give something to Christmas in a sense, will give some crumbs so that it can ease the problem that exists. But the citizens are not fooled. The government may be nervous about the upcoming, but the citizens are not fooled. So these conservative, but also disastrous practices of the government, from which there is no care for the low pensioners, insecure workers and the unemployed, will be revealed and we are therefore politically, legally and morally voting against this unacceptable amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis. I will give the floor to Mr Constantine Heta, the Greek Parliamentary Representative. Then to Mr Ljupe from New Democracy and then to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese. Come on, Mr. Heta. You have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, thank you very much. It is really regrettable in this Chamber that one cannot use one's rights. And it's not the first time that this happened. With great respect to the Bureau, Mr President, but respect - you know - is won, it is not a given one. It's not possible - where he heard it! not to have the right of the Member representing his party, the parliamentary representative, to not be able to answer something that he has heard, which can be untrue, twisted, anything. For example, today with the Communist Party, I do not mention it. Where did the President of Parliament hear the floor be held by the parliamentary representative? I'm so sorry. Mr President, you must see it in the Bureau what happened for the tenth time today with the particular President of the Parliament in his attempt to fade the Greek Solution. I don't know what his purpose is. He doesn't want them to be heard? Wrong erections. Because what is to be heard, said and heard. It's unbelievable! And he was trying to avoid me. He was telling Mr Tsakalotos " here, Mr Tsakalotos" and he said he didn't want to talk. "No, speak" to avoid me! I won't spend my time anymore, because I think it's not really worth it. I repeat, however, that respect is won, nothing is given. With great respect we are in this Chamber, we are all respectful and have proved it in practice for a year and a half now. We demand the same respect, at least as the Rules of Procedure say. And to answer, now that I've been given the floor, I'm unbelievable! - what was said by the Communist Party of Greece earlier about black and red fascism. The President of the Greek Parliament has rushed to exclude the Communist Party of Greece from this, and it is not something that we say there is red and black fascism, the European Union itself says, there is a resolution. What can we do now? So, what was Stalin, like? He slaughtered twenty million people. He's not a fascist? So, what was Stalin, to understand? Far from us, we have all condemned them. We ask Greek justice tomorrow to stand up to the circumstances and we say this with courage today that we are doing this. We're not interfering, no. Justice is a part of society and must disguise the world, the public about the right feeling, and make the decision to make. But some things must be said. Minister, the President of the Greek Solution said this morning - we will say it again, we will tell all tons, you will see it seriously, he told Mr Brutsi - our proposal for the new regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments. I think that the conversation here in the Greek Parliament should always be constructive, get results and get things from us, all the rest of us in Anti-Population, and what is right to do so. You do have a very large volume of work in front of you. But look at this: one hundred and twenty instalments of arrangements for the Greeks, for the Greeks, for our citizens who are in a difficult position, in taxi, in in insurers, in everything, for everything. Pick up all of them together in a hundred twenty doses. Let all Greeks join. They can't respond. Look at it. We will come back with this proposal. I just wanted to keep it in mind again. I want to make a comment on Greek-Turkish. I saw a statement from Mr Diakopoulos, who until recently cooperated with the government. The appeal to The Hague, he says, will lead to national defeat. That's what Mr. Diakopoulos said. Obviously there are the reasons why he is no longer in the government or rather does not cooperate with the government. It is another confirmation of the Greek solution, because in this matter, in Greek-Turkish, we have a very serious attitude, with very serious proposals and, unfortunately, we are entitled every day. You do not understand that the bilateral debate on any matter of the island shelf and associated with it with a maritime area is equivalent to a national suicide. When are we going to have delusionals? While the New Democracy Government dreams of a dialogue with a boat of hope, Erdogan is bailed out with weapons and the ship is the "ORUC REIS" ready for new investigations. And Turkey continues to practically question Greek sovereignty shortly after the messes of the European Union. Because it was a mess. She's been mocked once more. The Turk doesn't change. We've said it many times. I would like to mention to you now - I think most of you do not know about it - and about the people who are listening to us, about the pogrom against the Armenians. They wake up memories of persecution and uprooting for Armenians living in Turkey. There is an Armenian district in Constantinople, then, where the Green Wolves, who co-operate with Erdogan, every day - just to say it - are bowling. Car convoys with Turkish flags and Azerbaijan attack and terrorize the world every day. The worst thing is that it is being broadcast specifically by Turkish media and here our Turkish correspondents, kich, talk. They don't show anything. We must in practice stand on the side of our Armenian brothers. Some evidence has fallen into my hands. I like numbers, and I want us to come here with evidence. Alarms, they really hit. They are results of ELSTAT, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Greeks are fifty thousand less in 2019, the birth and death balance. Fifty thousand less for 2019. It's too big a number. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I mean, a town disappeared, like Kalamata, Chania. A town! Unbelievable to think about it. I mean, in 2050, we're going to be two million less. At the same time, Greece is, unfortunately, being transformed, but violently, into an African country. While our demographic is this, we have this violent transformation in an African country. We must give Greek and Greek privileges to give birth. Basically, privileges. Incentive to get our children back, our scientists. Kyriakos Velopoulos told you a moment ago that this medicine Trump took yesterday was from two Greek doctors. Both Greeks. I'm not saying whether it works or doesn't work or whether it's effective. Two Greek scientists, who are abroad. And these people we have to bring them back. You also convey, please, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, you have time to get it back - it is not possible with the Turk to lyssom, threaten us and instead of stimulate the morality of the Greeks - to ban parades due to COVID -19. Without COVID -19, let's get the tanks to make a parade, see them throw F-16. The theaters are full every day. Party everywhere. Conspiracy everywhere. The squares were filled, they became Islamabad. Half daily cases are of illegal immigrants, and we will ban parades. Let go of the parades. We're starting Easter, 15-year-old, parades, Christmas now. Here, the JRC made a nice coordinate with security measures the other day. Why shouldn't parades be made? Without a world, the tanks parade, with the F-16 to tear the Greek skies, to stimulate our morality. That's it. And I'm closing up with this. If you want to answer that, too, because we like that you are now slowly beginning to look for some NGOs. Four. You have another three hundred ninety-six. You still have a lot of work to do to shut them down. We've been yelling since the first day we're in here. The first day. We'd have saved too much. You know, crime evidence is an answer to our question. Answer officially - and I am closing with that, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u215	And finish, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u216	Yes, Mr. President. Question about crime involving citizens of third countries: Six thousand nine hundred eighty-five arrests of people for illegal entry or illegal stay in the country for the nine months of the year. Nine months. Seventy - seventy, then, illegal entrances we had every month. Six thousand nine hundred eighty-five arrests. Now listen - and I am closing with this - from Syria, Algeria, Morocco, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh. Identified thieves 52.1%, identified robbery offenders 44%, 30% robbery scholars. Just so we know what's going on in our homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Heta. As I said before, Mr Athanasios Ljupi has from beautiful Magnesia and New Democracy. Then we'll go to Mr. Spankee, who can't be held. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given that it is considered interconnecting in many cases of organised crime and terrorism. These two forms of unlawful action often work together, resulting in joint gain. The European Union is constantly taking steps to increase the level of security against possible terrorist attacks, strengthening the institutional framework and cooperation of the Member States. One aspect of the problem relates to the European Member States' own financial system, which is on some points vulnerable to the laundering of black money. Today's bill includes incorporation and amendment of European directives to improve the protection of the financial system against such illegal practices. The definition of electronic money and virtual currencies, which are used primarily for money laundering, is introduced. The list of persons liable, i.e. persons having an obligation to cooperate with the competent authorities, is broadened and preventive action against money laundering. Those involved in the trade in art in free ports are added to the list, i.e. in ports without customs, an activity that seems to be related to money trafficking. Accordingly, they are now obliged to provide advice or assistance for tax matters, virtual currency exchange services, as well as digital wallets service providers. A register shall be kept in the Securities and Exchange Committee with economic currency, currency and digital purse depositors. Accordingly, the Securities and Markets Committee takes on a supervisory role in these categories of debtors. The Ministry of Finance's Strategy Committee is the final body that plays a major role in this battle. Significant change in prepaid card operations. The anonymity and convenience that distinguishes prepaid cards serves many consumers and is particularly exploited by tourists. On the other hand, however, it is also something that illegal money trafficking attracts. That's why limits are set. Greek credit institutions and financial institutions are allowed to accept payments with anonymous pre-paid cards only if they have been issued by credit institutions operating in the European Union. These cards can now only be stored up to EUR 150 compared to EUR 500 up to now. The process is austere when we have customers from third countries, which have been designated by the European Commission as high-risk. In this case, increased, due diligence measures are provided, in which case the persons liable to investigate in-depth transactions, which are either complex or unusually large, or which have an unprecedented economic purpose. An important aspect of the issue is the strengthening of control mechanisms in the money routes managed by politically exposed persons. Those who have a significant public function are controlled in cases where they have financial transactions or develop business relations. In this respect, a joint decision of the Minister of Finance and the President of the Parliament setting out the duties of persons exercising a significant public office is provided for. One of the most important articles of today's bill is Article 16. The Central Register of Real Rights, held at the Ministry of Digital Governance, ensures the necessary transparency that trade needs, so that persons associated with criminal activity are no longer covered behind the anonymity. Each company and legal entity with a permanent establishment or a seat in Greece and with a tax declaration obligation shall keep a separate register with all adequate information on its actual beneficiaries. The particulars of the register shall be entered in the Central Register of Real Rights and updated whenever necessary. However, everything laid down in today's bill would be empty unless specific protection measures for the persons mentioned and, in particular, the workers were provided for. Disclosure of information on suspected transactions to the authority or to the persons liable shall be protected. Any person who informs the competent authorities or their supervisors of their suspicions shall receive legal protection from exposure to threats or retaliation of any kind. I would also like to make a little reference to the amendment concerning the retrospectives of public pensioners. This is the principle of equality which requires that pensioners receive the same treatment as private pensioners for retroactive June 2015-May 2016. With today's amendment, a fair treatment is ensured against this category of pensioners as well. In fact, it comes at a difficult economic juncture, hoping to give breath to this category of citizens. In closing, the new technologies and the vast world of the internet undoubtedly offer us many freedoms and infinite choices in everyday life. At the same time, however, it can become a disastrous tool in the hands of dangerous criminals and terrorist groups. Continuous vigilance and adaptation to the new data are essential to put new obstacles to the renewed methods used by the networks of illegality. Undoubtedly, money from illegal sources is at the heart of the survival of terrorist organisations. That is why today's bill is particularly important in the ongoing fight to combat terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Lippe. I don't know if it's random. Whenever I'm in the Chair, you're very time-consuming and you say everything. Mr. Vassilis - Peter Spanakis from the New Democracy and the B3' South Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u221	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, today, we are bringing to plenary a very timely bill extending the scope of Law 4557/2018, a recent law which is also the basic legislative framework for the issues we are discussing today: combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The important thing that our Government is doing is that we are bringing in the concrete provisions incorporating them into the Greek legislation of the respective European directives, but we are bringing them directly, now that we must and are imperative and not after two, three or five years. However, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the amendment by the Ministry of Labour by which the New Democracy Government, by continuing its social work and implementing its pre-election commitments, restores the reductions imposed on pensions, both in the public and private sectors, in the context of our Memorandumary Obligations in the period of the deep economic crisis. And we are doing so, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis directly, as we promised, according to the country's current financial possibilities, while we are in a health crisis. We are doing so today that our pensioners are in great need, since after the major economic crisis they also have to face a serious, unprecedented health crisis. And they are the same pensioners who belong to the front line of the vulnerable groups. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, who would rip up the memorials, what exactly have you done for retired people in the years when you were government? What have you done for our country's pensioners? You must finally make your own statement. The draft law, with today's draft law incorporates substantially the fifth European directive, and in the year we will also have the incorporation of the sixth European directive to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, and our basic law, the law to this end, is substantially updated. Our aim is European and national. And it is to strengthen the legislative framework for dealing with this. In addition, provisions on digital coins and wallets that we have so far not had. And because I have listened very carefully to Mrs Papanatsiou, but also to the rapporteur for Disarmament, I would like to ask: What have you been doing in these years when you have been in the government? What did you do in 2018? I heard Mrs Papanatsiou saying: 'We have been discussing it since 2018.' You stayed in the conversations? Or haven't you had a chance, Mrs. Papanachius? We are therefore bringing in a new legislative framework that strengthens the existing one by extending cooperation between the relevant bodies and by accessing the information available. All the latest data from international organisations are converging that there is a direct link between organised crime and terrorist financing. We need to shield Europe as best as possible from growing and with more brutal terrorist attacks. By armoring Europe, our neighbourhood, we are also protecting our country. And we also need to shield our financial system in such a way that we do not leave any window open that could allow it to be used as a means of money laundering or crime financing. It is an absolutely necessary bill that we are bringing to the vote today. Don't get any delusional. Only with a strict legislative framework and cooperation between Member States can we deal with organised crime and terrorism and secure our financial system. And of course, only within a safe environment can we have growth, we can have substantial investments and, of course, prosperity. Today's bill also introduces very important provisions to prevent this. Because, ultimately, this is the most crucial stage: prevention. Terrorists and organised crime are constantly developing, using every technological development and every new instrument before us. And that is why, apart from repression and treatment, which, however effective they may be after evil has happened, we have to take a step forward. Access to the registers and any information available shall be strengthened by this bill. Cooperation shall be strengthened. There's more limitations on anonymity. Furthermore - and this is the case for the first time - even a ordinary citizen, of course, can have access to specific information. At the same time, however, personal data protection has been given particular attention. I will dwell on the individual articles in particular. There is no point in repeating the self-evident and what we all agree with in this Chamber. Article 5 for the competent authorities. We have, Bank of Greece, Capital Market Commission, Department of Economic Police, AIA, Ministry of Justice. Not all of them. You understand... There are more than seven competent authorities for the application of the provisions of this Directive and for the control of debtors. That, of course, and we need to see it. We put a T-shirt on, but it can't work at a very good pace. We should be guided by a logic of unification and coordinated operation of the competent authorities and bodies. Now, who controls who? That's cleared up by the bill and cleared it up. We put an essential booze on it, but we do not solve chronic problems and diseases. The division of responsibilities and responsibilities only creates problems and we all know that very well. Nor should responsibility be transferred to a mere employee in any case. This tactic must be stopped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a minute. The central register of actual beneficiaries referred to in Article 16 is a truly important provision that increases the transparency of corporate and legal entities, as an express obligation is laid down to acquire and maintain complete and accurate information about their actual beneficiaries. We must, however, ensure that we do not create additional costs for natural and legal persons. I come to Articles 25, 26 and 27 to strengthen work and access to information. I mentioned at the outset this is one of the most critical areas for effective combating and prevention, which are related to money laundering and the collection of money for terrorist activities. The practices adopted by terrorists and those involved in organised criminal activities are constantly evolving and the best cooperation is needed between all the competent authorities, increasing the transparency of the financial and economic environment and establishing criteria for transactions with high risk third countries. In Article 30, a very important paragraph is added to the fact that the public prosecutors are informed without delay when offences and criminal offences are detected by the competent supervisory authorities, which will bring significant improvements, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very serious bill before us. It is very serious for Europe, very serious for Greece. It is a bill that promotes peace, justice, transparency, and above all security. That is why we must vote in favour of all Parliament's wings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Spankis, if you want to know what we did from 2015 until 2019, ask in Europe and ask them what they think about some of your party's political staff. Ask there. They know very well. They know us, and they know you too. I want to make a reference to tomorrow's day because I consider it historic, not only for Greece, but also for Europe and the world's politics. What happened yesterday with the vandalism of the Jewish cemetery with nazi slogans and symbols a few hours before the announcement of the decision on the Golden Dawn trial is a challenge for history, for memory, for yesterday, for today, for tomorrow. Democracy and the anti-Fascist movement tomorrow morning will be there and they will respond. Criminals - Nazis must go to jail and with the slogan: "Never fascism, never racism, never again unscrupulous, disgusting and inadmissible the theory of the two extremes" must be politically marginalised. All democratic Greece, all democratic Europe, anti-fascist democrats internationally have their gaze on tomorrow. It is not too much to say that history is looking at us and the future is looking at us. I am optimistic, but the battle against Nazism and fascism will be lasting and will be lasting because it will continue as long as the causes, economic, social, policies that feed it. This is a battle to be fought every day, especially now that we are entering an abyssed international crisis. I'm coming to the bill. It is important to strengthen forecasts and frameworks, to have continuous surveillance of what audits and supervisory mechanisms do, to see and to monitor whether they work together, if they change data, if they cross-check information, if they follow European practices. The progress of research and the other countries of the European Union must be constantly monitored and we must see where we are left behind more and less. Obviously, we must strengthen the institutions. Our rapporteur has said that it is a major issue to ensure that rules on transparency are guaranteed for the financing of the media. Is there a clear protection regime for those who want to denounce economic crime and corruption cases that concern the country, Europe and the international community? Because in Greece we have seen signs and monsters in recent years. The complainants were found guilty. The country must choose whether it wants to be European and prosperous and we believe that it must be European and favoured, whether it will be with the power of law or the law of the mighty. Can an anonymous person in Greece denounce economic crime, smuggling or banking? Will an answer finally be given to the discharge of bank officials investigated by law in this House? What image do we give the people who have been violently impoverished for the last 15 years? What answers and from whom will they be given to wicked loans and other possible scandals to be investigated over the last 15 years? You gave the preliminary draft budget yesterday. There is a recession of 8.2% and a growth of 7.5%. Okay, I don't want to remind you of the order of forecasts for the last six months and how from 4% we reached 8%. I wish the recession - but with the policy you are following, you are not helping in this direction - to limit it as much as possible, because behind every 0,1% recession there are hundreds or thousands or tens of thousands of tragic stories of poverty, marginalisation, inequality, difficulties in everyday life. It is, however, set out in the good scenario and a growth of 7.5% and 2021 that I really want to discuss seriously in Parliament at some point if the preliminary drafts and budgets - because that is the budget, it calculates and predicts what will happen next year - we are forming and abolishing them and the majority vote on them to reflect prospects or to create accounting psychology. Anyone who reads an international type, progressive, conservative, systemic or non-systemic, sees that these are very fragile balances. The debt of the country is in an ineligible state. Bring a forecast for 216%. In any case, we must seriously discuss and make use of the possibilities of European funds and of the money left by the previous government as budgetary margins, to limit this catastrophe for as long as the pandemic phenomenon lasts. Because, look, there is a serious possibility, if things are budgetaryly hardening in Europe, the country with the same party within fifteen years is going bankrupt for the second time. This is a scenario which must be prevented both economically and socially. I want to make a very small reference to the budget for the Interior Ministry and the OTAs, because they appear from this preliminary draft to be the big cracked ones. With an initial and rapid reading, it seems that funding will be proportionate to 2020. However, what is clear is that common own resources will be EUR 280 million less, as EUR 280 million is deducted from grants. The Public Investment Programme, as far as the national component is concerned, appears to be a reduction of EUR 750 million, not only for the needs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but overall. For a comparison and for the ordinary citizen to understand the size of the cuts, it is worth mentioning that ten years ago, when KALIKRATS was built, only the resources for the Municipal SA amounted to 1,1 billion euros, when the OECD, by studying in the summer of 2020, effectively addressing the crisis of the coronary pandemic in the economy, but also preparing to tackle the pandemic clearly prefers to strengthen public investment at all levels of governance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u225	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u226	The Government of New Democracy, unfortunately, decides to make a negative record at the disposal of funds for public investment. There is also a 1/3 reduction in the social costs of the municipalities - the municipalities that have lifted and lifted a great deal of weight in the period of the economic crisis that we are living in, which is called on in the coming years to continue to be side by side and we believe it will be side by side and will support the citizens - with EUR 70 million less than this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. Mr Spilios Lebanese, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, is invited to Stepma for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the incorporation of this directive is intended to prevent the use of the financial system to finance criminal activities and strengthen transparency rules. It prevents large-scale funds from being hidden. Thanks to the new directive, the competent authorities will be able to better monitor financial flows and prevent the financing of criminal networks. The Directive is part of the broader anti-terrorism action plan established by the Commission in 2016, following the successive terrorist attacks in Europe. It is incorporated into the Greek legal system as part of a comprehensive framework created by the Government for healthy growth for all, combating all forms of black economy. All of Parliament's wings have agreed on the need to further shield our legal framework against money laundering and it is important to vote for the bill today by a majority of the parties in order to give a strong signal to society for the efforts of political staff to combat the paramilitary economy and corruption. At least in terms of transparency, it is important to find a common component. In this consensual context, Mr Tsakalotou as SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative for both the draft law and the possibility of financing the economy from the corresponding revenues that can be generated. Obviously, the government acknowledges, and of course we as a party in the New Democracy, the positive measures taken by the SYRIZA government for the covetous economy and the black money. Unfortunately, however, this policy was neither universal nor hegemony, to use the expression of your parliamentary representative to SYRIZA. I am afraid, unfortunately, my dear fellow Member, that it was not even - and it is not - majority. Both Mr Tsakalotos and Mrs Papanatsiou made a first mild criticism of the draft budget. It is assumed that the preliminary draft is subject to a high degree of uncertainty due to the pandemic. This is understood and accepted by everyone. With full awareness of this difficult situation, the Ministry of Finance mentions three scenarios in the preliminary draft. Yes, we are choosing to use the optimistic scenario as a basis and for market psychology purposes, as the President of MICROSOT said yesterday, but above all because we have good indications that this can be implemented. We expect many even quality investments. We saw yesterday's big investment in the American company. Fourteen more were announced by the government committee and we still have a lot to see. We are also waiting for the important funds from the Recovery Fund. We are optimistic about the best, but of course we are preparing for the worst, and that is how we need to do it. Yes, Mr Zachariadis, we are prepared to hold a constructive debate in the committee responsible and in Parliament. However, in this context - I return to my position on the first place - it was not as consensual as all SYRIZA Members today, nor in their public speech outside this House. The 'all' of SYRIZA, to remember an old expression from PASOK's vocabulary, is not consensual. The subject was raised on the issue of changes to the Criminal Code for the offence of unfaithful bank managers. The government, with the change it has voted on, has given a solution to the great problem of non-performing loans. It prevented punishing practices at the expense of officials who kept legal proceedings and ended up being acquitted, but who had been troubled even for decades. Of the five hundred public prosecutors' audits, the vast majority of them were filed. But so, a vicious circle was created, with banks being locked up with 80 billion and borrowers themselves finally being charged. That is why the New Democracy Government has broken this vicious circle, giving it the opportunity to regulate debts, always in accordance with the legislation in force. After all, our credit system is always supervised by the ECB and SSM. If any illegality is established, then the responsible are obviously punished exemplarily. Unfortunately, we have heard my dear colleague, whom I very much appreciate, Mr Alexiadis - who obviously replaced SYRIZA's original rapporteur - come once again to defend in this House the indecentness of the 'NOVARTIS' process, to come to defend the horrendous attempt to smash their political opponents, loyal to the well-known doctrine that now seems to be the clear party line of all SYRIZA 'to put someone in prison to win the elections'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u229	A dogma, not a SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u230	My dear colleague, as you said, it was the New Democracy that brought the law on protected witnesses, but not to make use of them and destroy their political opponents, but to protect precisely the public interest - something that does not concern you - to protect the people who denounce the scandals, but not the ones that have collapsed before the public prosecutors. As to whether the New Democracy is threatening judiciary officers, this is probably a joke. Our party has always been a defender of the independence of justice, and it is today. We were not - and I am sad to remind you that I am sorry to do so, but you have challenged us - who, through the Maximos Maximos businessman's differences of conduct, accepted by all of you now, made your speeches - I mean in political dialogue acceptable, we have all seen them - in justice. We were not the ones who, when the Council of State demolished the anti-constitutional Pappa Act on television licenses, criticised the judges by saying that they deprive their children of their access to children's stations. Mr Alexiadis said charmingly saying that SYRIZA did something good during his administration with the laws that he passed. I'll agree. You did prove in practice that populism has a very heavy cost to the Greek people. You have proved that the "first time left" with its huge ass and delusional is equal to "never such a Left". That the supposed moral advantage of SYRIZA - you proved that too - was a lie and rotted into the mud of offshore in Venezuela, in the pastures on the white porcsha. Above all, however, you have proved with your government the inefficiency of SYRIZA in solving the major problems and in governing the place. I am addressing colleagues who have dealt with our national issues during the debate of today's bill. Mostly those who cry for the alleged failure of the government and the allegedly inability to defend national interests. In the face of them we want - and I want - to be clear and clear. Foreign policy is not practiced by lionism and cries. It is conducted with consistent and measured movements with careful and multi-level diplomacy. It is being used by the creation of alliances, by strengthening the existing military economic and even energy levels, by shaping the European Union's positions not just by following them. So because foreign policy is not offered for crowns, I call on all the sides of the House to understand the geostrategic environment that is being shaped and given a corresponding political reason. Those who do not bail out for the lack of support for Cyprus by Greece and the European Union either plunder or have not learned to listen and read. Obviously they cannot correctly interpret the text adopted by the European Union since that is where the previous conclusions of the European Council on Turkey are expressly referred to, where sanctions are mentioned. The same text of the Council's conclusions mentions the legal bases, the European Union's law to impose these sanctions which we so much debate. It is no coincidence that the President of the Republic of Cyprus himself, Mr Anastasiades, publicly thanked the Greek Prime Minister for his position and support throughout this adventure. It is also no coincidence that President Anastasiades himself stated in particular: 'the sanctions were never an end in itself'. The aim is to de-escalate Turkish provocativeness and resolve our differences under international law. This objective is slowly, patiently achieved. Finally, I will speak on the subject of MICROSOT and the criticism that we have even accepted. Instead of commending the whole of the parties yesterday's announcement of this great investment by the President of MICROSOT and his clear real support for both the Greek economy and the reform policy of the government, the party leader came to the House today ironically and criticized. I reply to his hot question about calculating the amount of investment that will be made in Attica, in the words of Brad Smith yesterday in an interview with the Athenian network, it concerns many hundreds of millions of euros. However, the corresponding investment in Poland - which is not words but has already been made - has been estimated to have a footprint on the local economy of EUR 1 billion, while another investment of this type in Italy has a print of EUR 1.5 billion. We must add to this the jobs that will be created in both the company and the wider circle around it. At the same time, the representative announced that he would train about 100 thousand people in these processes that are useful not only to those who will work in this company but also to other companies in this area. Fortunately Greek women and Greeks and especially young people and young people in our country are fully aware of the importance of such an investment in our country. Of course they are aware of the importance of other smaller investments in the same direction as "PFIZER", "DELOITTE", "PWC", "CISCO" which open the way to changing our production model, reshaping Greek entrepreneurship, reversing Brain Drain and, of course, creating new jobs. Unfortunately, some in this Chamber do not understand either the needs or the messages of our times. In conclusion, I should like once again to congratulate Mr Zavvos on his specific and effective political position in this Chamber and, of course, the moderate and effective position of the Minister of Finance on all issues relating to economic and development in our country. I hope that this climate of real dialogue and consensus, which prevailed today in the debate, will prevail both here and outside this House the next, difficult and full of challenges for both the political and social life of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr Levane. We hope that the climate will be the same after the Minister's speech. I will give the floor to Mrs Ahtsoglu. Then the Minister of Economy, Mr. Christos Stagiouras, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the amendment tabled for pensioners' retrospectives. Here we are dealing with a continuation, a constant, provocative deception of pensioners. A few months ago Mr. Mitsotakis from the Step of the Parliament announced in an inspiring way that he fully satisfied pensioners for retrospective cuts that his party made in 2012. Indeed, it was abused at that time by all the Members of the New Democracy. The same day we proved that the regulation that was bringing about was not the only one. It was a regulation which violated the decision of the Council of State, which significantly reduced the retrospectives that retired people were entitled to, and ultimately was a deceived position on the part of the Prime Minister. This arrangement brought about by the New Democracy for retroactive pensioners first of all does not retroactively return to the reductions made to the gifts of pensioners and supplementary pensions in 2012 by the Government of New Democracy. It's against the decision of the Council of State. While it accounts for 4 billion, it only gives 1.4 billion. It is a government decision which affects the low-pension workers in particular. Those who have drawn up less than 1,000 euros will not receive one euro with this choice of government. The worst thing that can be understood is that it says that any other claim may be abolished by law by the pensioner for the rest due. By law, abolishing the right to appeal to justice! It violates any concept of rule of law, any concept of social justice. The Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, said to them, "I owe you four, I give you 1, and I delete the others by law." Today the government comes with another amendment to take another step in this downfall. What's he saying? It says that for pensioners' retrospectives it does not obviously give them any retrospectives, which relate to gift cuts, to subsidiary cuts, and it says that it does not even owe them part of the cuts made in the main pensions. In other words, it is not enough to cut pensions, it is not enough to cut back on gifts and subsidiary allowances, it is now cutting back on the mains for a portion of pensioners, public sector pensioners. It continues, in other words, this deeply unjust, unconstitutional policy, this fraudulent attitude, it continues to create two-speed pensioners, another thing in the public and another in the private sector, no one eventually gets what is right, perpetuates injustice and is finally extinguished into legal disputes with all the pensioners of the country. Because I do not think it makes sense to believe that the right of a citizen to appeal to justice will be abolished by law. And because I heard the argument that at some point the Court of Auditors in the minutes of a meeting said that only one law on cutback is unconstitutional and not the other, look at the Court's reading cards cannot be done. You can't choose what suits you by any court ruling. The Council of State made a decision and you violated it. The Court of Auditors in its opinion accompanying this amendment says that it has not yet held a pilot trial on the matter and that this regulation you bring does not fully satisfy what is due. You say that you are pleased with the Court of Auditors' decisions. So here you are making a political choice on the subject, but it is not a solution to the matter. You are not giving a political solution. You are perpetuating a great injustice and expanding it further. Our position here is clear and we have told you since the first moment since the summer: Leave these drones, organize the satisfaction of the retired in their retrospectives and do not turn the country into an endless court. I now come to the question of the bill we are discussing today. So today you are incorporating a directive, a revision of a European Union directive to combat money laundering and you are doing well! But I have heard you say, you are almost taking major reforms in favour of transparency in the circulation of money. Let us see, however, what exactly you themselves are doing - and let us put aside the European Union's directives - on these matters under your own legislation. With your regulation, with your amendment in November 2019, you provided for the release of money arising from criminal activities within a very short period of eighteen months. In this decision you released assets amounting to 1 billion from crime, smuggling, arms trade and drug trafficking under your rules. With your own regulation, you have tried to cover up - and I will tell you why you have attempted it, but it has not been fully achieved - the cases of unbelievable bank managers. Is it or is it not true that you predicted that the infidelity of bank managers will only be persecuted, that is, only practically, if the bank itself wants to appeal against itself? That is what you predicted, that is, the mortal to prosecute himself. That was your prediction! You have come at a second moment to say that, as far as the outstanding cases are concerned, the criminal prosecution of bank officials, such as sea-loving, air-loving loans, etc., will have to be said within a very short time by the banks if they wish to continue prosecution. The banks themselves should say in a short time if they wish to continue prosecution and if they do not want to go to the file. And the worst of all was that in the middle of the lockdown, and while all the other court deadlines were suspended, you came with PPP in April and said that especially in the case of banks' infidelity, this deadline was not suspended and so what do we do, all these cases finally went to the file. The deadlines were ruptured and the cases were brought to the file. And I come now to what the representative of the New Democracy said, who obviously does not know it, because I do not believe he knows it and said it deliberately. Do you know, Mr President, that there are three court orders, with the last of today's, the Plenipotentiaries' Council saying that this regulation - which we defended here with passion - is contrary to the Constitution and the ECHR? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In particular, the Council has said again today: 'Contracted ambiguity of criminal offences for an individual category of persons does your regulation'. And the council refused to dismiss the criminal prosecution despite the efforts of the government and the banks, criminal prosecution involving the prosecution of bank officials for loans to the two major parties, for loans worth 400 million. This is the bounty of the defective board for the arrangement that you so passionately defended. The Council shall speak of ‘regulating disguised amnesty of criminal offences for specific persons’. So this is the practice you have been following so far, ending persecution, exemptions, money laundering from criminal activities. You say that you are fighting 'black money', but your actions show that you have rather set up some laundry. If you want to have anything to do with transparency and the fight against black money, you will now cancel all these actions that I have mentioned and then we will be serious about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Ahchioglu. As I said before, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stagiouras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you said you were going to deal with the bill, but I heard nothing about the bill. You didn't say anything about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u235	He said, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u236	But I will also answer all the issues you raised outside of the bill. First of all, I would like to make myself fully aware of this from the start of the meeting, Mr Zavvos, on the Golden Dawn. The recent statement by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on Golden Dawn is clear and absolute. Our country's experience with the disastrous passage of the Nazi shape of Golden Dawn has been traumatic, painful and, unfortunately, very bloody. Our prolongation, the New Democracy prolongation, was and remains a timeless opponent of the Golden Dawn, as well as any undermining of the civilization and normality. Our Government, the Government of New Democracy, is a conscious protagonist in trying to bring to justice those of them who have condemned themselves to be punished justly, but also relentlessly. That is why we are at all times defending democracy and normality with the strength of legitimacy, with firm faith in our institutions and with our citizens' allies. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to listen to you, but I have not been at the beginning of the procedure, because yesterday and today we had the meetings of the Eurogroup and ECOFIN with a number of issues that will deal with us in the coming months, such as promoting and completing the process for the Recovery Fund, completing the banking union and promoting the association of the capital markets, promoting a digital financial package, strengthening the role of the euro in the global architecture. Of course, there was a debate yesterday on the seventh evaluation. The seventh enhanced surveillance report for Greece was discussed. It is the fourth positive report in less than a year. It was recognised by everyone that the Greek Government designed and implemented, as the text of the conclusions says, in good time, methodically and targeted - contrary to what I heard from colleagues from the Anti-Population Officers - a large package of measures limiting the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. But it's not just that recognition. Progress has been confirmed, despite the adverse circumstances, in implementing significant structural changes with a positive impact on the investment environment and the economic climate. The Government, by means of its financial staff, taking advantage of the trust shown by partners and markets, is making progress, taking into account the major challenges that still exist before us in the implementation of its enhanced, coherent, dynamic and effective plan. And as I pointed out yesterday, with responsibility and confidence, taking account of the most available resources at European level, we continue our efforts to support the economy and society, to bring them up and to launch high, sustainable, smart and socially just growth. I make yesterday's statement from the head of the Eurogroup on Greece. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] All ministerial amendments are accepted. No parliamentary amendment can be accepted. However, one of the amendments tabled by Mr Vlachos is indeed essential. But we want, as the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, to see the whole matter of the whole territory directly along with the services of the Ministry of Finance. There is an amendment signed by Mr Brutsis and Mr Aggeakis concerning the need for a smooth start and the proper operation of professional championships. In view of the fact that a new regulation by the Ministry of Finance is to be drawn up to regulate late payment, it is necessary to facilitate the teams involved in the professional championships. There is another amendment that is to extend the Bridge programme by one month. I think we can all agree in this Chamber that this is a successful programme, in relation to what was adopted by the previous government and voted by the then opposition in 2019. Then, with that program in thirteen months, about seven thousand applications were submitted. Today, in about two months, a hundred thirty - seven thousand seventy - three applications have been submitted. This shows the success and good design of the program. The Ministry of Finance is constantly taking measures to support households and businesses, obviously the most vulnerable social strata - which is allegedly being cut off for them - in order to tackle the economic difficulties that arise either from the health crisis or from the unprecedented and extreme weather phenomena which have hit several prefectures on Greek territory. Since there is talk of amendments, a SYRIZA colleague - I do not see him here - caused me to the committee by asking me why we are not accepting the SYRIZA amendment to the small islands. Indeed, she said, my dear fellow Member - you know over time that I never say a name and, indeed, when she is not here - that her amendment, the amendment of Officerial Response, which we tabled twice, had two clear criteria. One was for islands and he said about the islands and the second was that there are income criteria for whom they are exempted. I am tabling SYRIZA's amendment. There are no income criteria anywhere. It is good to be careful where we sign, what we sign and what we stand for in this Chamber. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm going to testify a series of legislative improvements...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u237	We don't understand, Minister, what this is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u238	It's irrelevant to the bill. He is with a SYRIZA colleague for an amendment he had tabled to an irrelevant bill on ENPI. It's something else. I didn't mention to you. I shall table a series of legislative improvements to an issue raised by the Qualified Opposition. I attended from my office the State Secretary responsible, and they were full of answers. These were the recommendations of the Committee on Good Legislation and we adopted them. I note, however, that after the appointment of the Secretary-General you have continued to object. If these objections remain, the provision will return within the draft law. We are completely covered by the State Secretary. If you still do not cover yourself, so that there is no insinuation, no shadow to this political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, we are prepared to reinstate this provision. We are completely covered, but I want to show you how willing we are to be that there is no shadow. This includes the reintroduction. If you are unconvinced, they will be presented in such a way as to be law-abiding. Otherwise, what the State Secretary has said is true. I put it in the Minutes, considering that you are probably not convinced and want the order to be restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u239	I will put aside the budgetary issues, although some colleagues have raised them. Indeed, Mr Tsakaloto, we will have a long time to discuss this, namely, the realization or non-realisation of estimates, forecasts. For example, there is a lot of discussion from Acoustic Opposition if 7.5% is realistic and whether it should have been so much or 5%, 6%, 4%. However, I would like to remind you that the European Commission in the 7th assessment report believes that growth in Greece will be 6% in 2021, without counting a large part of the influx of resources from the Recovery Fund. Therefore, I do not think that the assessments of the Ministry of Finance are extremely over-optimistic. I guess I'd call them realistic. In fact, you know those who have studied that we have an unfavourable scenario for less than three units compared to 7.5% economic growth, depending on how the next period will develop, because there is very great uncertainty worldwide. I therefore think that with the scenarios we have in the phase and the basis of realism. However, what I did not expect from the Qualification is for SYRIZA Members to make announcements or repeat them here - not Mr Tsakalotos today nor Mrs Ahtsoglou, other SYRIZA colleagues - debt reports, staying in the central government. I'm sorry, but we all know that a country is being evaluated in its public finances at the general government level. The general government in deficit, the general government in debt. Goals are not changed. The general government is being assessed. When we say 3.5% of the primary surplus, we tell the general government, not the state. So you come out and make announcements - as a SYRIZA colleague has repeated today - on debt to the central government, which says it is 216%. But the general government is under 200% and that's not what you're saying. In any case, we will indeed have time to place ourselves on them. Colleague from the Change Movement referred to the issue - and asked for information - of washing through banking institutions. I would like to tell you that here there was an issue of discussion an hour ago at ECOFIN by the Dutch Minister for Finance, based on some recent publications, which it is allegedly alleged to be, particularly in that country, there are strange transactions, but a statement by them. There are, in their statement, suspected transactions. What I would like to emphasise and stress is our strong political will to continue the work carried out in the field of suspicious transactions. I recall the rating of Greece by FATF, which was published in September 2019 and said that Greece has an organised and effective mechanism to assess suspicious transactions of banking institutions. Our country, in fact, scored financial information with the second best on the FATF rating scale. I also note, as mentioned in the report, that the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities receives high-quality reports of suspicious transactions from credit institutions, particularly the banking sector, which allows the Authority to maintain a reliable mechanism for analysing information on the financial sector. We are in cooperation with our European partners for better and more coordinated action in order to further improve the effectiveness of financial information analysis mechanisms, while at national level we incorporate all relevant legislation. Indeed, I referred to the positive assessment of FATF published in September 2019. My dear colleague, Mr Tsakalotos, said: 'You should somehow recognise this'. You know very well that I'm fair. On 3 September 2019, as soon as it was announced, it reads ‘This ranking in the highest category of countries is the result of a country assessment process initiated and launched by the previous government...’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is obvious that there is a continuation in the country and what is right should be recognised. But I would also like to respond to an issue to which the honourable Member referred about the operation of the register of real beneficiaries. Unfortunately, the provision of Article 20 of Law 4557/2018 and the relevant ministerial decision that you had adopted for its operation had left several institutional loose ends to be dealt with. At the same time, such a system, which is a source of control by the competent authorities, requires significant technical support in order to securely operate for the responsible legal persons who import to it the data of their representatives. Therefore, for reasons of legal certainty and in order not to surprise citizens and it was first considered more appropriate to regulate all relevant issues and then open the system. So I also responded to the concerns raised about why there was a alleged delay. I will obviously put aside - it is not even worth talking - who is implementing or not neoliberal policies. This has been proven since 2015 to this day. However, it is a great deal clear to those who have implemented such policies to move the finger on those who have implemented social liberalism policies, which have as basic principles economic efficiency and social justice. I would, however, like to respond to an issue that I have heard from a number of colleagues from the Police Department and I did not expect them to put it today, especially if they knew or had seen from the Minutes what I have said in the past. But I am given the opportunity to say something that Mr Tsakalotos was right about. This is not a process that we are taking the last step today, not a process that is enough to take. It needs a systematic effort, launched by the previous government and continued by today. During the current period of time Greece is in the process of incorporating into the national legal order all European legislative texts relating to the fight against money laundering. It is now over to incorporate the fifth laundry directive. At the same time, the work of the Legislative Committee for the Incorporation of the Sixth Laundry Directive, Directive 2018/1673, is being completed. At the same time, the work of the Legislative Committee for the Integration of Directive 2019/1153 is under way - you see that we incorporate all the directives - to establish rules to facilitate the use of financial and other information to prevent, detect, investigate or prosecute certain criminal offences. Therefore, the Government is practically expressing through specific legislative initiatives its strong political will to tackle money laundering and terrorist financing, in a consistent and organised manner, consistently and methodically. Our strong political will - because this has been laid down as well - is demonstrated throughout our current governance by the legislation that has been passed in Parliament, but also by close cooperation with both the competent national authorities and with the international organisations, the FATF. On the question of asset commitments by order of the President of the authority, I would remind you that under the provision of Article 15 of Law No4637/2019 it was originally laid down that within three months the provisions of the President of the authority on old cases are forwarded to the competent court for judgment. These judicial bodies, which have the guarantees of judicial authority, decide whether or not to maintain the asset freeze operation, without any time limit and in accordance with the guarantees of the law. However, in order to avoid the slightest possibility, even one case has not been transmitted, we have extended the three-month period for another quarter. By legislative intervention, the law - Article 15 - was extended until 19 May 2020, that is to say for a semester. Therefore, the only thing that had to be done in the six months is the transmission of cases to the competent courts. The six-month period for one transmission was sufficient. The transmission process has been completed properly, and we have not received it, ladies and gentlemen, I think it has one worthwhile thing to add - by the operators involved - to the beginning, in particular - never to be informed of any coma or need for further extension. It has all been organised and coordinated. Under no circumstances has there been any question of the release of assets related to serious criminal offences. In addition, on the subject of amending the provisions on asset commitments, the Ministry of Finance as legally co-ordinating on issues related to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing was in November 2019, at the time of the adoption of the relevant provisions, in constant communication and consultation with all international stakeholders, and the FATF and the International Monetary Fund. I have all the mail from the Secretary-General of Economic Policy in my file. A similar debate was held with the European Commission. These bodies, as I said in committee, but also today, had a problem with the government's legislation, have expressed in writing their satisfaction at the information and cooperation of the Greek authorities, without expressing any objections or reservations, which I hear some people are expressing today. They fully and in writing accepted the documented position of the Greek side, that our legislative initiatives aim to speed up the administration of justice and in no way lead to the massive lifting of asset freezing decisions. I even own some very interesting e-mails that some people were going to FATF and giving documents to do damage to the country. In some texts it says - and I have the dates: November 8, 2019 and February 11, 2020 - that there is still a misunderstanding in some in Greece - the FATF says these, not for the government, for those who sent them - and that these have been discussed in detail with the Greek Government, so that they do not continue to raise issues today in the Greek Parliament. Therefore, closer cooperation and communication between the Ministry of Finance and the bodies - in particular FATF - continues to date, as the Government remains committed to addressing black money laundering, a commitment confirmed at the training seminar of future ratings of FATF, which was highly successful in Athens in December 2019 with FATF instructors and participating candidates from around the world, as well as the continued presence of the Ministry of Finance in all international meetings on money laundering and terrorist financing issues. This success is demonstrated in practice by the prioritization we have set as the Greek Government. In conclusion, in order not to repeat what I said to the committee as regards the content of the draft law, but also because it has been fully developed by the relevant Minister and the majority rapporteur, I would just like to highlight the basic features of this and what they achieve. Firstly, the legal framework is strengthened, by extending the possibility of working together all the relevant bodies involved and by facilitating access to registers and available information. Secondly, restrictions are laid down on the anonymity surrounding digital currencies, digital wallet guard services and prepaid cards. Thirdly, the safety criteria and differences are laid down in relation to transactions between and between third countries of high risk, as they are characterised by the European Commission. Fourthly, complaints about infringements of the existing institutional framework, coming from workers within the obligated persons, are encouraged by strengthening their protection framework and by establishing appropriate internal mechanisms and procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, in the economic crisis in the last six months the Ministry of Finance has continued to implement its reform agenda. This was confirmed yesterday at the Eurogroup. It upgraded and modernised the institutional framework for corporate governance and capital market, established the microfinance framework and decided on the relevant decision of the Bank of Greece last Friday. It promoted fiscal reforms aimed at strengthening the development process of the Greek economy. It has introduced a new framework for borrowers affected by the adverse effects of the coronary, and today we are voting for its extension for a month. We are moving on to another reform initiative, promoting further strengthening the legislative framework to prevent and suppress money laundering and terrorist financing. With vision, design, confidence in our forces and hard work, we are moving forward - step by step, overcoming the great, but temporary difficulties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Minister. Until the Step is ready to give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative wants the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u241	Just for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u242	Here, Mr. Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u243	On budgetary matters, we shall be placed in the procedures to be carried out in committee, Minister. Minister, I would just like to refer to the issue on which I have been tampered with and in my speech concerning the provisions passed by your Government on the release of assets arising from criminal activities. I said that you provided a very short deadline, on the basis of which the assets are released from criminal activities, and, in fact, that you had given a period of three months, so that those which were committed were also released, and you said now, from the Step forward, that this is not the case and that it was just a deadline for all this to finally be transferred to the relevant judicial bodies. I invite you to read Article 15 of that law, your transitional provision, which said: 'In the event of the expiry of the deadline referred to in the first subparagraph, namely three months, the provision of the President of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Crime, that is to say, the one he said about the freezing of assets, automatically ceases to apply'. They are being released, in other words, committed. That was what the provision was saying automatically. It is clear that the asset commitments have automatically ceased with you this arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ahchioglu. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order, presents its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Amendment Code of Greek citizenship, a new framework for selecting administrations in the public sector, regulation of organisational issues of the General Secretariat of Citizenship and the General Secretariat of the Human Resources Government Sector of the Ministry of the Interior, arrangements for the development perspective and the proper functioning of the Local Government Organisations". Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. When we talk about health from March onwards on the basis of pandemic, at the same time on the economy because of the recession. When we talk about the economy and talk about the recession and forecasts, at the same time the debate refers to the pandemic. We now have a couple of issues and we have to deal with them together. I heard yesterday morning Mrs Spiraki on television making a reference to the forecasts on the discovery and production of the vaccine for COVID -19 and I did not believe in my ears, because, invoking procedures within the European Parliament, she said that these are the predictions of the companies that are financed to build, to discover and to start the production of vaccines. I have called her - I have looked more carefully into the data - and I am announcing the following, dear and dear. This was a meeting of two European Parliament, industrial and health committees, recently on 22 September, where representatives of two very large pharmaceutical companies, SANOFI PASTEUR and CUREVAC, said that the vaccines they prepare, which they themselves scientifically try to discover, will be ready in 2021. They even talked about a billion doses of vaccines by the end of 2021. I repeat: at the end of 2020, as we expect, but at the end of 2021. If that is the case, then all the forecasts of the progress of the economy this year and the budget, whose draft was submitted, I think it is out of reality. As an optimistic man, I hope these estimates fall out. I'm also an optimist, otherwise. Here are those who are financed by the European Union and, in this regard, the European Parliament committees are speaking. These, then, are financed for discovery and then for production, to be closer to the reality of us, the rest of us. That's right. I am very sorry to convey this information, but this information is that it was submitted to MEPs a few days ago. Coming now to the issue of'money-laundering, terrorism and related', I have listened very well to Mr Tsakaloto speaking as a Parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA, to mention a consultant from Tony Blair, UK Prime Minister for many years, Lord Peter Mandelson and his own report, Peter Mandelson, but - he did not say so - that there is between wealth and dirty wealth, which does not upset us and comfort, because we are looking to pay these taxes and if they pay their taxes, everything is fine. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Because I am well aware of this debate, I want to make two comments. These thoughts of the British were made at a time when they did not define and define the policy of the UK Labour Party on the part of the United Kingdom. At the same time, man himself, years later, in 2012, said that these statements and thoughts were spontaneous and not documented and no longer followed, he has abandoned them. However, the Labour Party of that country has never followed policies of this style, taxes to pay, and whatever you do and accumulate wealth, is justified. That is my first point. My second comment relates to the generalization that some are trying to do. I don't think Mr. Chakalotos would dare. Well, he didn't do it today. Since the governance of the European states in the period of social democratisation, with Prodi, with Schröder, with Slater, it has emerged with Blair that the people of the European Union and the European Union themselves have been well placed. The governments worked better, the projects succeeded one another, growth was given for many years, both in our country and in social democracy, and at this stage the modernist has offered it. Of course, the losses of social democracy were in terms of its electoral basis, because its slogans were differentiated, its political speech was differentiated, the differences with the liberal democratic orders of the Central Right were narrowed. The social democracies paid for this offer. I believe that the connections of a modernist social democratic policy with this phrase'similar wealth, dirty riches, dirty riches that have enchanted' are not serious. In any case, there is no Social Democratic Party in Europe that has supported it. First of all, we, ladies and gentlemen, did not support it. We, as government, adopted the most serious and stricter state procedures and state institutions that are against corruption, which Mr Katrins said at the meeting of the Standing Committee, and today. Let's go now, as we speak, and that's why we're going to make a retaliation. Mrs Zaire, the head of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Criminal Incomes, came to the debate. What did he say? He told us that the principle of major achievements has not been demonstrated. If I go completely into the letter of her words, of her word, I could say that the results are pitiful to nothing. I do not forget that she, although she has no effect on her main work, went to involve the former Prime Minister, Costas Simitis, put him in her mouth - in any case, the current dialogue at that time - and then apologise to each other for what they did wrong. But in any case, we are still in the major thought that it has nothing to show, in recent years, its beginning of some serious achievements. Midwives are her results. He gave some objective evidence, for example, I respect that he needs staff, the principle needs to be served. Mr Minister, you are concerned as a member of the government with these comments and suggestions made by Mrs Zairi, who are still there, but during her term of office, I accept that. The second is that it also proposed a number of measures. It seems from the legal systems you are now tabling that one of them has accepted. It says that ‘to be the money laundering of illegal activity as a second offence to be linked to a primary offence’. It exists when it is linked to a crime and is punished by imprisonment of more than six months, that is, a crime and, in any case, a felony then? It seemed to her that this is not right and she asked for lower sentences. You now come to the legislative improvement to say'reservation', that is, under Article 53 of the Criminal Code'more than 10 days'. Mr. Stavura, is this serious? Have you studied it? I want you to think about it. Read the Criminal Code in Article 53 where regarding the prison sentence defines minimum and maximum, ten days to five years. Really? Do you know how many offences are punished by imprisonment of these few days?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u246	Yes, but why did Mrs Zaire ask for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u247	Ask Mrs. Zaire. What are you? You're not...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u248	Because with regard to the offences the basis of the sentence has fallen below six months. And that's why he's asking for this, if I understand it correctly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u249	But that leads...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u251	Observation. I want to talk. I never said, let me finish. Oh, no. Now that you're taking the intervention, I'll answer you. This concerns the current Criminal Code that the Greek Parliament has passed without our presence, and I think yours too, on the last day before the previous government fell. If some of the penalties seem to be particularly low, change them. But to generalise and say "for all cases it is sufficient that imprisonment should be linked to it in the aftermath of the washing is tragic". The'six months' was at least one serious limit. I am involved in dialogue, my dear fellow Member, by doing my judicial duties many times. Today, incidentally, at the appeal hearing I was discussing this issue with colleagues. Do you wonder if this is a major offense to tie the rinse with him? There's always a thought. But the legislator tells you that it's enough for the prison sentence, that is, ten days, uh, no, it's too much. We do not legislate in this Chamber, we control things. We are trying to see whether the thoughts we are proposing, which result in proposals relating to criminal law, are serious. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I need two more minutes, Mr. President. Now something about Mr Alexiadis is political, so I'm connecting it here. You said, dear colleague, in your introduction, because we made a very good position in the morning, all parties. We also respected Mr Tsakalotou's initiative, but you were here. We made a very good position as a Change Movement on the Golden Dawn theme. But I also made the point as a professor of Constitutional Law that the House does not impose sanctions. The House is legislating. The House's in control. Of course the parties do not impose sanctions because it would be a jungle for our society if one party punished the members of the other. You said how many people said that? You did not talk about it, but you said in general that those who say this in a way have a selective memory, because when it comes to political corruption, there was criticism and, indeed, very intensely against judicial bodies. You're right. Yes, there was very great and intense criticism that resulted in a referral. Mr. Lebanese said so. I don't want to add anything. I just don't know how old you are. I remember very well, as a young man, the film "People above any suspicion" Gian Maria Volodeer and Florida Bolkan, perhaps Florida Bolkan, remember her. The head of the Homicide Department in Italy, in Rome, investigated a homicide case he had done. This is happening in both the best societies and the most advanced institutions. You have to convict them. That's all, other than in the face of a court decision, you make the decision on behalf of the judge. Mr. Chakalotos was very careful. Other colleagues in the Chamber were not. In any case, the House has sent a message and that is the very positive one. You, the New Democracy, the Greek Solution and the Mera25 and the JRC, in general, despite the fact that Mr Pafilis has just got out of line, I think we have sent a message as National Representation not to interfere, but in any case a message against fascism, against Nazism. I would like to say a word about the draft law. We vote, Mr Katrinis said, it is your sixth legislative initiative. I would remind you here that you have been here many times, that is, you have done your duty as Minister of Finance, you have spoken of six initiatives, the numbering may be of the major issues which were not of a PPP, but of the main reason for your Ministry. Okay. You have made a reference to your overall economic policy which does not allow disputes in relation to the draft law, except for the issue I raised, the issue of the ten-day imprisonment. I understand that a parliamentarian and politician, former Minister, who has attended and a Ministerial Council to take decisions on anti-corruption measures and, of course, we do not deny our positive vote, but I remain, ladies and gentlemen, and I close with it, that Greece in relation to what is going on in connection with organised crime: the legalisation of revenues as a result, drugs, terrorism is so advanced that when you confess that you are in childish age, then you admit that you have a long way to run.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u252	Colleague, we've been here fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u253	I'm closed, Mr. President. And this way the Greek Parliament, if it runs him, will watch him. If the government doesn't run him, he'll be critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Loverdo, I have a lot to remember about the Golden Dawn the years have passed, but now I'm presiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u255	Speaking of which, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u256	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u257	Did you hear what the President said? He made a report about what we could say about Golden Dawn. I avoided it in my morning speech and in my current speech. But I have suffered everyone's presence against me in the squares. My party as a government has suffered the presence in the squares of everyone together against us and also when we were running with New Democracy. But it's not day for this. We have other days to talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u258	Thank you. The Minister has asked for the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u259	Mr Colleague, I have spoken about the legislative initiatives that I have taken in recent years in the context of the health crisis. The government's overall legislative initiatives are fourteen this year. On the specific issues you raise, the State Secretary responsible will answer soon. I just want to make one comment on what Mrs Ahtsioglu said earlier, and I did not take the floor immediately because you had already taken the step. You referred, Madam President, to the provision of Article 15 of Law No4637/2019, which states that within three months the provisions of the President of the authority in the old cases are forwarded to the competent court for judgment. Right? You said three months. Let me remind you - I suppose you knew, but you did not say so - that by transition on 14-2-2020 in the quarter it was six months. That's the first difference. We're talking about six months and not for three months. Secondly, it's very clear. Six months shall be sent to the competent judicial body for judgment. And as I told you, there was no question of releasing assets related to serious criminal offences and there was no information about the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance for any cloak or need for further extension. Watch out, what? In the transmission. Such judicial bodies and the safeguards of judicial authority shall decide whether or not to maintain the asset freeze operation without a time limit and in accordance with the guarantees of the law. So don't confuse the transmission with the evaluation. And I repeat - and I close with it, because we are always evaluated - that there are FATF documents of 11 February 2020 and 14 February 2020 confirming the correctness of the legislative intervention of the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u260	Thank you. Mrs. Konnakka, it is true that you were never with the Golden Dawn. I would like to remind you that at the last minute the invasion of the Parliament by Syntagma Square and the 'Indignant' who were the leading Chrysayites was prevented. Let's not forget that. Mr. Boutsikakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the difficult circumstances our country has been experiencing lately because of the coronary pandemic, our Government, the New Democracy Government is going through gas in reforms. This crisis, as the Prime Minister said, has become an accelerator of the state's digital transformation. We are strengthening the national economy by continuing to promote new initiatives. We're modernising the legislation. We guarantee legitimacy. We're fighting tax evasion. We are strengthening the proper functioning of the market. Our policy already produces results. That is why colossal companies, which want stability, security, consistency in the state, such as 'MICROSOT', 'PFIZER', 'CISCO' and many others, came to invest their money in our country, creating thousands of new jobs now in the midst of pandemic. The conditions are now being created to return to the times of the crisis as well. We are therefore calling on them all the knowledge and experience they have acquired abroad to make use of them here, helping their homeland in the transition to the new era, in the era of Brain gain and at the end of Brain Drain. Today we are integrating the fifth European directive on the prevention and suppression of money laundering, a directive which the previous government has failed to incorporate, and that of course belongs to a long list of what has been omitted and has not been able to do so, the 'first time left'. International economic scandals and terrorist attacks have imposed stricter European legislation. Terrorism and organised crime exploit new technologies for money laundering. Recently the United States seized hundreds of millions of dollars in bitcoin, money intended for terrorist financing. Just a few days ago, a large network of terrorism used encryption was dismantled in France. The reports by international organisations show an increasing convergence between terrorism and organised crime, which is an increasingly threat to the security of the European Union. So we understand how important it is to strengthen mechanisms against terrorist financing and to unleash dirty money. Only if the financial system is properly shielded, will it be able to prevent criminals seeking refuge through opaque routes. Only then will our society be safe and free. The importance the New Democracy Government attaches to combating money laundering and we have proved it by the recent microcredit law, ending its illegal lending and its consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening transparency is a strong deterrent. Today, with this bill, we are strengthening it even more. We are setting stricter rules, limiting anonymity to digital currencies, wallets and prepaid cards. We are strengthening cooperation at national and European level so that supervisory and prosecution authorities can do their job quickly, efficiently and accurately. We are upgrading the levels of transparency so that it is possible to access information for the identification of the operators. We are introducing security barriers to trade from and to third countries that are characterised as high risk by the European Commission. We are laying down further rules which are the result of our own national effort. In particular, we are strengthening the transparency of corporate structures. We are laying down rules for swap providers between virtual and real currencies. We're finishing the laundering of black money, of illegal money, with these transactions. We define the system of bank accounts and payment accounts as a centralised mechanism for electronic data recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill was formulated after a long public consultation, after a fruitful dialogue with operators and the market, with the aim of moving our country to the digital age and the demands of the 20th century, with the aim of benefiting the national economy at all levels. Increased transparency will strengthen the trust in the financial system from the whole of Greece and also from the investors themselves, because for the New Democracy Government responsibility for society does not end by voting for a proper and necessary bill. For the Government of the New Republic, the objective is to implement it effectively in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Athanasios Kavada is followed by New Democracy, and then immediately after the speech Mrs Bakadima, a Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25, has been asked for. We will continue with three other colleagues and the process will be completed. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, healthy economic activity is developing in an environment of transparency and rules. Money laundering through the conversion, management or transfer of securities undermines the development of a healthy economic activity. It is estimated, according to data from the "Thomson Reuters" that electronic crime results in losses of $1.5 trillion in healthy and legitimate businesses, but also in the economy on an annual basis. At the same time, money laundering also poses risks to the financial sector. It is clear that the fight against money laundering or criminal activity requires the continuous modernisation and updating of the institutional framework. This needs to be served by the bill we are discussing today. It makes significant changes to Law 4557/2018, since, as we said before, developments are running and all gaps in the institutional framework need to be addressed, but also the new forms that can be taken into account. At the same time, however, the fifth European Union directive, which is working towards further stricterisation of the institutional framework, is being incorporated into Greek legislation. It is important that the gaps existing are addressed through this institutional intervention. I will mention features of the integration of databases, through which control can be more effective. The bill establishes important innovations that shield the system and control procedures to combat money laundering such as: Firstly, ensuring the transparency of corporate structures. There is now a clear obligation to register in the Central Register of Real Rights of corporate or other legal entities. There will be public access in this register. Secondly, addressing the gaps in encryption and focusing mainly on the anonymity of users. The provisions of the draft law limit the problem of the anonymity of users, since there is an obligation to register providers. Thirdly, establishing criteria and rules for the security and control of trade with third countries that are considered high-risk countries for money laundering from criminal activities. Fourthly, the creation of a Banking Accounts and Payment Accounts Register. This system will now be a consolidated database in order to enable the tax authorities to have direct access to data for the identity of bank holders and for all transactions. Fifthly, the strengthening of the mechanisms for exchanging information between the independent authorities, but also the tax authorities of the Member States of the European Union. Sixthly, strengthening the role and responsibilities of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority in criminal activities, which will now have increased access to data. Ladies and gentlemen, in the direction of greater transparency, the provision is also being put in place to establish a list setting out the duties and responsibilities of those exercising or exercising a significant public function. They shall also be considered as accountable and shall include bank employees, lawyers, notaries, accountants and real estate brokers who do not carry out the necessary checks to verify the elements of the transaction and shall conceal this information from the authorities. The institutional framework for dealing with these cases is tightened, penalties are provided for up to ten years and fines of up to EUR 1.5 million. Finally, a reference to the amendment to the Pensioners' Retroactive Legislation. A commitment made by the Prime Minister was to pay the pensioners' retroactives, on the basis of the decision of the Council of State. The direct beneficiaries are a million thousand pensioners who will receive at the end of the month 1.4 billion euros. Retrospectives are paid at a difficult time not only for the Greek but also for the global economy. As the Prime Minister himself pointed out, this expenditure touches the country's financial capacity limit and is not only a sign of respect and implementation of justice decisions, but also a political choice. There is a huge effort to keep alive businesses to keep jobs and support the unemployed and those who do not have incomes. Social responsibility, therefore, is linked to solidarity and also to the assumption that in the pandemic crisis, there must be priorities. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the expectations of some, the government still has the confidence of a large majority of its citizens. In these particular circumstances and the consequences of the pandemic economy are important that investment is coming in the country. MICROSOT's large investment is a vote of confidence in our national economy and that is just the beginning. The implementation of investments that have been characterised as strategies, including the production of marina in Vlychos, Lefkada, give added value to the Greek economy, produce wealth, create new jobs. In combination, however, with the framework of transparency and control established by the draft law we are discussing, we ensure that investments bring public revenue, bring benefits to everyone and help to achieve growth in all social and economic strata. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u264	Thank you. Until Mrs Bakadima comes to Step, Mrs Ahtsoglou has asked for the floor. Please, Mrs. Ahchioglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u265	Minister, I'm coming back to this. You predicted that assets arising from criminal activities are being released within eighteen months. Then you did give an extension, which I did not mention, and that is my fault. In this period, which eventually ends six months, all procedural proceedings should be transferred from the anti-judiciary authority to the courts. And you said, however, that the judiciary would have the right to judge on the substance of all these cases, so that everything is going well and there was no speed in unbundling data from criminal activities. That's not true. Judicial bodies that receive these procedural documents, according to the setting up of your own, can only validate the original commitment. How can they validate her? How can they validate something that has already expired? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In other words, you commit them to their responsibilities. You tell them that all you have as a right is to ratify the original commitment, which can only continue to work if it is within eighteen months. After eighteen months this commitment has expired.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u267	So the judiciary can do nothing about it. Nothing. It is a matter of competence which does not have substance content. You deliberately cut them off. You cut it off for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u269	I am also tabling the amendment on the second issue of ENVY in the small islands. Mr Stavura, SYRIZA in the 2019 amendment had income limits. I got her here. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u270	Mrs Ahchioglu, you have said that in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u271	No, I didn't say that, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u272	Come on, Mrs. Bakada, and excuse me for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today, despite the fact that it is one day - and we were all at the beginning of the meeting - on the matter of the Golden Dawn, and therefore respecting the fact that the procedure must continue and the honourable Members who have been waiting since the morning must also speak, I will concentrate my speech solely on the amendment we tabled as a PART25 to extend the validity of the list of successful candidates for the competition to the Legal Council of the State. The proposed provision calls for the replacement of the tenth paragraph of Article 66 of Law 4714/2020 and for provision to be made to cover existing empty organic positions of main personnel at the Legal Council of State, as well as the empty organic positions which will arise until 12-4-2021. In accordance with the intended provision, we propose that these vacant organic positions be covered by the 184-2019 successful table, published 12-2019 in the competition for the filling of Trials for Judicial Plenipotentiaries at the Legal Council of the State which was proclaimed, recall, by the decision of the then Minister of Finance, No 403/2018. The prolongation of the list of successful persons is necessary in order to meet the needs of the recruitment of graduates of judicial staff, on the one hand in the replacement of those officials retired or resigned and, on the other hand, due to the setting up of new organic staff of the Legal Council of State: at the offices of the Legal Council of State to the President of the Government, the National Transparency Authority, the Competition Commission, the Athens Academy, which has not been staffed until now, and at the University of Peloponnese, which has not yet been served. It is worth noting that, as yet, the number of empty organic posts of key staff of the Legal Council of the State throughout its hierarchy amounts to eleven. Therefore, this legal arrangement proposed by us is considered necessary in order to enable the administrative process for covering the above-mentioned vacancies to be completed, but as I said before, and those that will arise in the near future. At the same time, given the pandemic, the notice of a new competition is deemed to be time-consuming and costly. And it is doubtful that the pandemic's limitations should be made. O, and an existing successful table is recent. It is therefore an additional element of ensuring that the Law Council of the State is staffed with legal qualifications and high academic qualifications, which - without doubt - have the necessary guarantees of scientific competence. I would like to conclude by reminding you that the extension of the successful table until 12 April 2021 was decided in principle with Joint Ministerial Decision No 124/20-320 of the Ministers for Finance, Health and Justice due to the urgent need to take measures to limit the spread of the coronary in our country in conjunction with the need to ensure the smooth functioning of the Legal Council. So because our country is currently in the second wave of pandemic - we believe it is necessary to re-expand the list of successful ones, as the current health crisis does not allow for a new competition in the near future. We also believe that it is necessary to deplete the list of successful ones, as is the case in all such competitions. That is why I would like, Minister, to ask you to accept the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u274	Thank you. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. It was Monday, October 16, 2017 - it is not necessary to remember this all - a shocking date where a Maltese journalist, Dafni Karwana Galicia, was blown up and the journalist was killed. Incidentally, this journalist was then investigating offshore companies of the then Prime Minister, Mr. Muscat and his wife. It was the first blood spilled on the Panama Papers. Because I think it is timely, it is worth mentioning what some journalists have taken to insist on research journalism and what was the result of this story. It was really a shocking date. And it matters to our subject today. I would also like to say this: there is a human tissue which is involved in facilitating such practices. I mean offshore, washing etc. One of them was Mr Mionis - if you remember - with Mr Metaxas who is today the man who New Democracy defends him. They used to launder black money on various lists. There, they belong to lawyers, accountants and bankers, today's subject. It helps this oiling of the wheels of illegal financing, interoperable, corruption and washing. I would also like to say, as far as today's issue is concerned, that it is of great importance to see what has happened with these stories. It had been made by the Council of State two, three years ago - I am sorry, because I do not want to criticise it, but it is a decision that has been made - where, in five years, any persecution was being cancelled. Then, of course, there were too many. Because we know there was the Lagard list, the Borgians list and many other lists. Hold that. I would also like to mention - and it is very important in my opinion - that a very large part of the references to independent journalism - and it is very important - that about one fifth of the banks do not even have addresses. So we see the dirty role some banks played - I'm not saying all - dealing with people who didn't even know their address. And then they entered the internet to see who they traded. And while the date of denouncement of such strange transactions was sixty days, the average went to sixty - six days, half - year. Sometimes never. Why is that? I think it is worth saying that two countries, the United Kingdom, particularly and secondaryly, are engaged in this laundry. Six hundred companies have been mapped in Great Britain doing this job. I also want to name three banks. And they're not the only ones. At the very serious Deutsche Bank, although what is recorded by journalists in research journalism is about 12 million cases, only 0,2 comes to the surface. And this 0.2 is about trillions. I would also like to remind you that JP Morgan, a very serious bank, was also spending Paul Manafort's money on Trump's election campaign. So, to get to know. I still want to remind you that the famous HSBC laundered black money. I'm referring in name. I'm saying it's not all of them. However, it is little to investigate these complaints by the banks. They're too late, not to say they're almost neglected. I would also like to remind you that the case of the journalist killed by the Maltese regime was the cause of early elections. She was working very hard with Maria Ephimova. For those who don't remember, she was a Russian who worked at a Maltese bank. And a Greek judge asked for the extradition requested by the government at the time, that is to say, that she should also be murdered. Some people raced here in Greece. And to his honor, the upper step, at the level of the year - I think, I don't remember now - didn't issued Maria Ephimova. It is important to understand what role many banks have played in laundering black money. My time is a little too short, and I know it. Mr President, I do not know if I will have your understanding. Whatever time you tell me, I'll stop. You should know that there are only two more speakers. I want to devote article 20 of the bill to two politicians, Mr. Samaras and Mr. Adoni Georgiadis. How is Article 20 brought about by its own government, which speaks of protected witnesses, rabiesmen who call them "hoodmen", "solden" etc.Huh? Anyone reading this article will see that these witnesses are protected by the police. Today, you bring it. It's your honor. We are, of course, going to vote on it. ‘The deposit by means of electronic means of sound, visual or visual means, the non-inscription in the report of the name, place of birth, residence and work, of the profession and age shall be ordered by reasoned provision of the competent prosecutor...’. This article, I think, says the obvious things that you also voted in 2001 in a law of your own and that at some point you have forgotten and you are still talking about hoodiers. I would like to thank these two politicians and others who I do not want to mention to them who spoke of hoodmen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I have nothing more to say. I just want to remind you that tomorrow is a historic day. We all know there's gonna be a lot of people coming out of the courtroom. I would like to remind you here that some here in this Chamber have said that we should not affect justice. I agree. What does he say we don't affect justice? So a peaceful gathering outside the court of thousands of people is affecting justice when it comes to people who have murdered? Here I would like to remind you what this government has done with Mr Angelis who has taken the evidence of an indictment in the 'NOVARTIS' case and took it to Vienna, and he is again a prosecutor of corruption. I would like to remind you that Mr Salatas, who has made many efforts to remove the file from Mrs Toulupakis, has been promoted by a special amendment - who is affecting justice? - eighty-six presidents. I would like to remind Mrs Ryku of the fact that she was hiding Papantoniou's file and hiding Liakunakou's file to be deleted and her husband was prescribing to NIMITS 1.700,000 for NOVARTIS. And she was promoted to a prosecutor. Let's see who it really affects! Your central witness in this dirty case is Mr. Miones and you are currently referring the undead judgement of Eleni Toulopakis, who made ninety-five pages of reference and we have never heard of it. You overlooked the six meetings of the Foreign Demetrius who literally dispersed the previous judges and one of your MPs was not found from the twelve or thirteen we had in the pre-inquiry to say a word. Mr President, thank you for the extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, on personal grounds I would like to speak at some point because the Minister mentioned before that I mentioned an amendment and wanted to restore the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u277	Okay. There is no staff, but it is not our point for a minute if you think it will be restored. Now Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the bill under discussion is not just a useful tool, but a necessity and that is because the progress of technology creates new opportunities for dirty money traffickers and therefore new challenges for the prosecution authorities with more specific examples of encryption. There is no doubt that tightening the anti-pollution provisions through banks, as well as increasing transparency by facilitating access to traders' identification registers, are legislative interventions necessary to organise a more operational audit framework in our country. Unfortunately, however, any harmonisation of the Greek legal order with the European Union does not automatically offer a guarantee of the effectiveness of the control mechanism against dirty money laundering, and this undoubtedly applies to the whole of the European Union, as has been demonstrated again by the recent revelations of the American Network for the Management of Economic Crime. This is where the organic participation of internationally known banks in the global money laundering of illegal activities appears. Indeed, first in the relevant list is our well-known Deutsche Bank. According to the revelations of FinCEN’s files only over the period 2000-2017, this bank has washed out capital flows of more than 1.3 trillion dollars. These are truly inconceivable amounts which have been moved despite the very strict legislative framework of the European Union and despite the existence of national authorities in all the Member States responsible for combating dirty money laundering. So what does this recent revelation say to us in connection with the debate of today's bill? It simply confirms that the existence of a strict institutional framework is necessary but not alone in a sufficient treaty to deal with this global phenomenon. We therefore need to look for what is lacking for the existing mechanisms to function effectively and I think that the main element at least according to the Greek experience is that of accountability. With the word accountability, I mean the regular and substantial public information about the work of the competent national authority that in our country is the Independent Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities. It is therefore fundamental that we all know, MPs, parties, citizens, what progress each independent authority is making and on what fronts. And above all, this progress must be essential and respond to the problems of modern, constantly evolving reality. On the basis of this remark, I would like to focus a little on the issue of days on the criminal investigation initiated by thirty-five foreign NGOs active in Mytilini in immigration issues. Indeed, these NGOs are alleged to receive money from the European Union and, at the same time, to smuggle migrants from Turkey. So the question arises: where do the other resources of these NGOs come from, in addition to the European Union's obvious grants? Was there black money? And if so, how did they move? The same question was raised in 2017 by the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, for the management of Community funds by the Greek Ministry of Defence. As we all remember then, we had the influx of two billion euros into the SYRIZA government alone. In particular, the Ministry of Defence has undertaken the coordination of projects and supplies in the fields of food, accommodation, cleaning, medical care, transport, construction and maintenance of hosting buildings for refugees and migrants. In 2017, however, research on mismanagement of this public money began on the initiative of the European Commission, particularly as regards the contracts for feeding the immigrants signed after 2015. Oddly enough, however, during the same period, we did not hear anything similar to the Greek Anti-Frauding Authority. To date it is unknown whether it has investigated the trafficking and money laundering of illegal profits from this mismanagement. Fraud against the European Union and the laundering of dirty money in services theoretically directed to immigrants are two issues interrelated and as such should be investigated in order to be convinced that the laws passed in this House are not ultimately some formal texts for certain independent authorities, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to end by saying a few words about the ministerial amendment that extends to pensioners in public and in NAT the return of retrospectives for the ninth month of 2015-2016 to restore the reductions imposed on their main pensions. It is a fair intervention of the Mitsotakis Government, which in times of high economic pressure saves a total of 1.4 billion euros to directly support million pensioners in 2020. The most important thing is that by this arrangement no beneficiary stays behind. The return of the retrospectives to both the public and the private sector is an act of social justice, and we therefore hope that it will be voted for by all the parties in this House, without any other misery and misery that expose not only the permanent protester SYRIZA, but also all those who find himself in favour of cheap opposition where there is no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u279	Thank you. Mr. Symphony, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to restore precisely the truth, in relation to the wording made by the Minister, Mr Stagioras, on the amendment that we had tabled by several SYRIZA Members on the subject of the ENPY for the islands of less than a thousand inhabitants. There is this issue here. I'll testify to it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u281	Mr Colleague, I gave you the floor to refer to a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u283	You will not now analyse the amendment. Tell where your difference is, where Mr. Staruras offended you or where he told you the truth. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u284	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u285	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u286	He said I said income criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u287	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u288	In fact, in our amendment of 29-7-2019, on the Government of New Democracy, the wording states: 'Real estate or property rights situated on islands of less than a thousand inhabitants belonging to permanent residents of these islands are exempted from HISA. This provision excludes immovable property or property rights on immovable property of taxpayers with an annual taxable income exceeding EUR 60,000.’; So there are income criteria here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u289	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u290	In order to fully restore the truth, in the second amendment tabled a few months later, income criteria did not come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u291	So what's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u292	By mistake. I say this because Mr Stakouris said that we did not set any income criteria at all. The reality is, we just put in the second statement didn't go wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u293	Who's counting? The first or second amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u294	The Minister said half the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u295	The first amendment sets the income criteria...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u296	What amendment is the right one? The first or the second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u297	The first amendment. They have already been voted against by the government and both amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u298	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u299	I give it to you in the Minutes for restoring the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin with the point that has been raised by almost all the speakers, regarding the obligation imposed by the Greek State on the entitled pensioners to waive their claims. Here we have an extremist institutional arbitrage. While the state's obligation is to provide every opportunity for the citizen for uninterrupted access to justice, the Greek state is now coming, taking advantage of the deep need for pensioners and its own dominance in their relationship, to impose a resignation on him of his rights. In other words, it shows an analgesia, forcing him to resign from institutionalised rights and as they have been formulated in the Council of State decision, so that he can give him a portion or a vote of those who are entitled to it. This is a behaviour that proves, which is not related to a favoured state, but to a state of sheriffs. Secondly, with regard to the comments of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, I would like to say that I feel very bad when I see the sloppyness with which the government is legislating. The following are therefore observed: In this context, 237B of the Criminal Code must be replaced by 396, because in the new Criminal Code, bribery - in the private sector is standardised in Article 396. The next article must be deleted because it has changed, repealed in the new Criminal Code. It is precisely because these offences are not standardised in the article referred to in that article. Who writes these, ladies? What are these legworks called for by Parliament at the end of the day to decide and decide? Minister, I have seen that Article 28 adds. Of course, there is no reason to insist. I just wanted to say that the anonymous was what made us differentiate. You have accepted it, and I therefore think that the way for consensus is opening. I now come to the main topic that is in itself the procedure for the adoption of the draft government bill. First of all, we have voted for Law 4557/2018, on the basis of which we have taken the highest distinction as a favoured state in the field of the fight against black money. The Minister said so, and I want to say it so that it can be understood. It was a seldom process. It's about every ten years. It happened to be in the period of validity of Law 4557 and it is a great success for our country and, in particular, for the SYRIZA government, that the country is now the first category of favoured states. Finally, I would like once again to insist on a parameter which has not been set up so far. I refer to the issue that raised Mrs Ahtsoglou's disagreement with the Minister. A period of three months has been set to forward to the authority the pending cases, where property of the persons involved had been seized. That deadline was extended for another three months. Now look at the coincidences that make me suspicious. On 19 May 2020 it had to send the file to the Court of Justice in order to rule. It is very interesting whether this explicit entry in the Act of 19 May 2020 impacted on the self-justified cessation of these measures, mainly because the courts remained closed because of the pandemic and were unable to receive and complete the procedure provided for until 19 May, after the secretaries returned to full operation only on 16 May, Saturday, in practice from 18, Monday, while on 19 the deadline expired. It is therefore of great interest that the responsible and, above all, the government officials, who were responsible for these cases, who favoured these people and returned the confiscations. I remember in the Committee on Papaggiopoulou, Mr. Strategic Pleasant had said 'I will appeal, since in any case this favourable regulation applies to me, to return what was confiscated to me'. It is interesting to hear an answer. As far as Article 2 of the draft law is concerned, we also pointed out in the original debate that an offence is standardised in a way that is inconsistent with our legal culture. He speaks of an organisation - he means illegal - or otherwise facilitating travel with a view to terrorism. This evidence is unproven. They are fully taken up in the view, in the thought, in the subjective element. What will he say 'Travel travel for terrorism'? Can this be an element of legal conviction? We are therefore restoring our concern precisely because it is inconsistent with our legal culture. It then refers to the application of the provisions, notaries and lawyers. There is the self-interest of notarial and legal associations. They're legal persons under public law. These operations are absolutely relevant to the performance of the same function. So clubs as legal entities governed by public law will be able to process this information. In particular, because of the nature of the legal function as a function based on the relationship of trust between the lawyer and his mandate, it was necessary that obligations under those Articles be removed from the scope of more conditions, in particular without prejudice to more conditions of certainty for the suspected transaction and not to be content with the basis of simple doubts. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'm done, Mr. President. I want to be able to close with the story of the protected witnesses. How hypocritical this provision corresponds to the plenary session, when all the previous period on the occasion of the Committee on Papagelopoulos, you have fought to reveal the identity of the witnesses protected. A decision has been made by the competent institutions that categorically said that these witnesses will be examined under the terms of the law and there this attempt to deflect the majority, based on the cooperation of the Change and New Democracy Movement, has been made to reveal the identity of the guarded witnesses. One last thing I would like to mention is that we need to provide for the daily financial penalty units and now replace the prison sentence precisely because this is the direction of modern criminal law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u302	Mr Georgios Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy. We shall conclude with Mr Voloudakis by my fellow Members. The Minister will be followed for three to four minutes. Then the vote will take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u303	Dear Mr President, Minister, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering a draft law on which we all agree, but some people do not adopt it, because they disagree strongly. We are talking specifically about the amendment of Law 4557, the basic law that currently exists to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, which, of course, incorporated the fourth European Union directive into Greek law. As we know, the price that our country has paid for terrorist acts is heavy. Days ago, we had the arrest of a group of terrorists who had heavy weapons. The problem continues to exist both in Greece and internationally. The scary blows to countries in Europe show that the phenomenon exists and is evolving with the help of technology that creates new possibilities for financing terrorist groups through new instruments of the financial system. The use of the financial system for this purpose has simultaneously demonstrated shortcomings and forced the need to strengthen the institutional legal framework to prevent and combat these phenomena at European Union level, as was natural. Treatment of these phenomena can only be effective if the financial system is properly shielded. The European Union has therefore amended all the previous directives and has now reached the fifth directive on the basis of which it amends Law 4557. But what are the main objectives of the draft law? The main objective is not only to identify and deal effectively with illegal activities but also to prevent them. This objective is mainly achieved by the following actions. More stringent rules to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, given the restrictions placed on the anonymity surrounding digital currency, digital wallet custody and prepaid cards. Secondly, enhanced cooperation between stakeholders at both national and European level. Thirdly, increased transparency through access to registers and available information so that it can be quickly and with a strong reliable identification of the operators. Fourthly, establishing safety criteria and controls on transactions between and from third countries of high risk, as characterised by the European Commission. Fifthly, the encouragement of complaints by workers within those responsible for infringements of Law 4557. How? By strengthening their protection framework and by establishing protective mechanisms and procedures. In more detail on the articles, Article 4 sets out the persons liable and is amended in accordance with Article 5 of Law 4557/2018. This article shall be extended to any person who undertakes to provide either directly or indirectly material assistance, assistance and advice on tax matters and to add to the provision of exchange services between financial currencies and supporting currencies and providers of high digital purse custody services. In other words, they are the newly liable persons who are added and those who trade or act as intermediaries in the trade in works of art in free ports. Article 5 defines the competent authorities overseeing the persons liable. The Securities and Exchange Commission is hereby appointed as a supervisory authority to provide financial currency and depository services and to provide digital purse-pocketing services. The aim is to limit anonymity as I said before. Article 6 provides for the central coordination body which is the Ministry of Finance and in particular the services of the Directorate for Financial Policy. Article 7 establishes the Ministry of Finance a final body which is the strategy committee to address the problem of money laundering. Article 8 defines the cases where due diligence is applied. In addition, in paragraph 5 of that Article, there is provision for the acceptance of prepaid cards by financial institutions where they have been issued by debtors within the European Union. To reduce problems and regulate prepaid cards up to a low limit set by EUR 150 and provided the cards have been issued by credit institutions within the European Union. Article 14 makes special provision for persons who are considered politically exposed and provides for the procedure in the case of transactions or business relationships with such persons. A list shall be drawn up in particular, which shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Finance and communicated to the European Commission. Article 16 establishes an obligation to observe by companies and other legal persons - entities - the specific register of actual beneficiaries. Article 20 describes protection measures for persons reporting to the anti-money laundering authority or within the person liable. Article 30 provides for the tightening up of penalties for money laundering operations and provides for all aggravating circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last six months the Ministry of Finance has continued to implement the reform agenda. We've all lived it. I would remind you that it upgraded and modernised the institutional framework for corporate governance and capital market, established the microfinance framework, promoted tax reforms aimed at strengthening the growth process of the Greek economy and introduced a new programme for borrowers affected by the adverse effects of the coronary. Today, the government is taking another decisive step. The regulations under way promote further strengthening of the legislative framework as it introduces innovative actions in line with the revised recommendations of the Financial Action Group and the standards developed both within the UN and in the Council of Europe. With these considerations, I am voting in favour of this draft law and, in the sense that I have started, I also call upon all the parties to vote for it, since it is really dealing with the issues and laying the foundations for better management of the relevant issues in the future. And, of course, I too welcome the issue of the payment of pensions to civil servants and, indeed, I am at the disposal of everyone who appreciates, believes and makes it public that, through the regulations, both for private pensioners and for retired people in the public sector, there are misinterpretations and solutions which quite clearly unfairly affect the pensioners, whose problems we must take care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. We are completing the list of speakers with Mr Voloudakis from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Buddakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will shortly be voting on the amendment brought by Mr Brutsi, with retroactive effect at the end of the month for public and private pensioners. I am really surprised that even right now I hear miserable approaches on this issue. Now, with regard to the draft law itself, we are talking today about the repression and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The spread of new technologies makes this work, suppression and prevention of illegal money flows, and increasingly difficult for the audit authorities. Digital coins, encryptions, digital wallets, prepaid cards are fastened into economic life, and the competent services are in a constant struggle to ensure that, as the contractual means of money trafficking are controlled, digitals will also be controlled. Legislation must be continually adapted. That is what the European Union is doing with the relevant directives and with the fifth that has been incorporated into our legislation today, that is what the Minister of Finance does with today's bill and it is right that they are doing. There is, however, a difficulty in these matters. Always the prevention of these illegalities, these activities, money laundering, terrorist financing, etc., is based to a certain extent on an interpretation of reality. This so-called 'deficiency' which must show banks and other institutions essentially calls on their mechanisms to interpret a number of complex acts in order to understand what is happening. That is why, because that is what things have, everywhere and always all systems at some point let something get away, even very developed and very careful agencies. That is why legislation must be simple and easily enforceable. It is particularly good that our country is part of the countries with the best evaluation by the FATF, the transnational organisation that evaluates these policies. We must continue in this direction and close holes wherever they exist. I feel I need to speak today not on what is happening with this bill, on the correct provisions that have been included, but on what is not done either in Greece or in the European Union. The institutional framework, in my view, leaves an outright window of money-laundering and, in particular, towards the outside, money-laundering tax, but also its possible relationship with illegal activities. I refer to the operation of international money transfer companies operating on the basis of the provisions of Law 4537/2018, as well as of the European Regulation 847/2015, which concern companies called ‘payment institutions’. These companies have been rapidly developed in Greece over the last few years, but also internationally with many retail shops in every city in our country. In these shops, one can only get an ID or passport to send money everywhere abroad. The trader shall not be obliged to give his VAT to transfer funds abroad. The above-mentioned European regulation, on which the monitoring of these enterprises is based, is completely excluded from its scope under EUR 1 000. Law 4537/2018 adds no relevant obligation to providers of such services. I should like to point out here that the fact that there is a regulation does not mean that we cannot add further regulation if necessary by our own law. For the possibility of moving a series of transfers of less than EUR 1,000, which may amount to much larger amounts, now that the regulation is stricter, it becomes unclear enough. It simply stipulates that transport must not be linked to one another, the interpretation we have been talking about. Whether or not it is connected, it lets it be interpreted by the companies that make transfers. Given that today there are several such companies, it is easily understood that one can go in one time and when to another and send out several thousand euros every month, which can be a product of tax evasion or may also be linked to illegal activities and money laundering. You can imagine what one can do if one has a multiple family. And for the sums above EUR 1 000, however, both the European regulation and the national institutional framework are not expressly mentioned in registration of the VAT system and, therefore, in practice, according to my information, there are no relevant controls on the IAEA. In any event, no results of such checks shall be published. If my information is not accurate, Minister, please correct me. In any case, I intend to come back with a question to parliamentary scrutiny. There is also an additional very important dimension in this matter. Greece hosts thousands of immigrants who have links with their countries of origin. These people are obviously the main users of the companies that transfer money abroad, the services of these companies. Greece is an open economy and we want it to remain without restrictions on capital movements. But the wealth produced in the country must be taxed in the country. L.4170/2013 established the Banking Accounts and Payment Accounts Register, in which the AACC may refer to checks in the banking transactions of taxpayers. Any bank move which may not be justified leads to control can lead to control - and rightly so - of the actual financial situation of the taxpayer. Greek citizens now consider these checks on bank transactions. But an immigrant can transfer funds abroad with the mechanism I described to you without ever being checked. To be treated differently for those who send money abroad, even in a number of small-value transactions, is both harmful and unacceptable. Firstly, it obviously undermines the collection of public revenue, it creates a sense of tax injustice against Greek citizens, whose economic activity is exhausted within the country. Finally, it acts as an indication of the looseness of controls on the economic system which makes the country an even more attractive destination of illegal immigration with financial incentives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a second more. Obviously, and I do not recommend the ban on the operation of payment institutions, and in no case would what I say lead to demonisation of their operation. Obviously these companies cover a need for the modern market and operate on the basis of the legislation in force. What I recommend is the very simple one, the introduction of the obligation to register VAT on each transaction through the payment institutions. So everyone who transfers money through these companies will be able to control the origin and the direction of his money. I have proposed a very simple provision, Mr Minister, which would regulate this issue, but as far as I know, you have not accepted it. I'll testify to it in the Minutes. I want to believe that eventually it will close the clear window of evasion of ruthless and tax-free money abroad. [[At this point the Member, Mr Manosos - Konstantinos Voloudakis, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u306	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall reply very briefly to the two comments, one of which Mr Lovers has already made, and the other is Mr Voloudakis. Regarding Mr Loverdos' remarks, I would like to say that we said this morning, and the Minister and I, that we adopted a proposal from the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Criminal Activities for the penalties of the main offences as a result of the recent change in the Criminal Code. This was done to avoid the limitation of certain offences relating to Article 4 of Law 4557/2008. In other words, our aim is to widen the scope of the law, to avoid the legal vacuum, any holes that could be created following the change in the Criminal Code and to reduce penalties. It is clear, therefore, that the cases examined by the competent prosecution authorities, like the Money Laundering Authority, have this possibility. It does not necessarily always mean that they will, as you know, lead to money laundering. Consider that if we had not made this change, as proposed - I say it again - from the National Financial Information Unit conducting the investigations, they would say that we might have left a tacit vacuum to remove the cases. I want to assure you that our aim was precisely to fill this legal gap that might arise after the change in the Criminal Code. With regard to Mr Voloudakis' comment, I think we have had the opportunity to discuss and say that it is a proposal which at this stage needs to be discussed with the Bank of Greece, which is a competent authority, which believes - correctly or not - that perhaps such a regulation as you propose creates a comparative disadvantage. I would like to tell you that we are taking this into account, we will continue the discussions and if, indeed, we agree, I think that we will well be able to adopt one of the next European directives or any amendments to adopt it eventually. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying that we have had the opportunity to have a thorough and fruitful debate all these days. Today we only had more than eight hours of continuous discussion. I would say that in a total of more than 15 hours all the parties, all the Members concerned, all the stakeholders, have expressed themselves. What we see is that there is a very important convergence of views on this important issue of combating money laundering and terrorist financing. I would like at this stage when we close the work to thank all those, especially the services of the Ministry, my colleagues, the Minister's partners, who have worked in constant discussions over the past few months, in detailed analyses, until we can formulate something solid, which you can vote on. The government's aim is and remains transparent in this area. We know, of course, that a law in itself is not enough. It's a step. There'll be more. I think that what matters most in this case and by law itself is its application. That is where the success is judged, in particular how the independents and the other authorities will cooperate and can deal effectively with all these dangerous phenomena. With this draft law, which I hope we will be voting on shortly, the best practices currently in existence at European and global level are incorporated. We are strengthening, as far as we can, the supervisory authorities and the country should, through this bill, further improve its excellent image at this point. Again, I would like to say that we are engaged in every day in all the European negotiations and processes, but also in all the international fora that are related to this sector and that we are creating the relevant practices and regulations at the same time. There are great difficulties - you all see that - about how we regulate and, above all, how we supervise virtual currencies. We preferred to start from now on by entrusting supervision to the Securities and Markets Committee. It's the new one. It's something that's not known yet. But we cannot leave any gaps, because as I have said again, the developments in these are rapid. Organised crime always exploits new technologies, new virtual currencies, as in this case, and it is better to know who is doing what. We strengthen transparency, shield the legal, regulatory, supervisory and audit framework. We give him the best and best means to do this important job. Above all, we also strongly support the strengthening and, above all, the creation of new European principles in the European institutions, which I think we will have soon enough in two areas. One is money laundering, because all the developments you have described and described are the huge need to create a supervisory authority, both for money laundering and for strengthening the European Securities and Market Commission. And I think that comes mainly from the recent Wirecard scandal. Mr President, the technology and the fine developments that the digital revolution is creating are putting new challenges to democracy. One of these challenges is exactly how it will deal with, how it will regulate and supervise. The bill we're going through is not just a technical bill. It is not, in other words, simple regulatory or other regulations. It is a bill that strengthens, shields the institutions and, above all, tries to create a culture of transparency. It is what a number of people have referred to as 'left diligence', because once again I say that having just the law is not enough. Only in this way can we ensure the smooth functioning of justice. So I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. It is important, because it deserves these difficult times to send back the national delegation, as it did with previous bills, a message to the tested society, to the citizen in the stricken faith, that Parliament, its representatives, are able to take those decisions, which make democracy work, that is, they give all those tools, all that infrastructure to a favoured state in order to play its part. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u308	Thank you. The debate on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby terminated: ‘Amendment of Law 4557/2018 (A 139) on the prevention and repression of money laundering and terrorist financing — Incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/843 (L 156) and of Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2019/2177 (L 334)’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty-two articles, of four amendments, of the farewell article and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u309	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u310	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u311	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Amendment of the n. Regulation (EU) 2018/843 (L 156) and Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2019/2177 (L 334) and other provisions’, has been accepted by a majority, in principle, of Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u313	Therefore, the House granted the requested authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-06-S1-commons.u314	With the consent of this House at 18.37 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 7 October 2020 at 9.00 a.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
