ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management, Restructuring of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, Upgrading of a System of Voluntary Civil Protection, Reorganisation of the Fire Corps and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 30 January 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting on the principle, the articles and the amendment. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Please open the registration system. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr George Kotrias, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law entitled 'National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management, the restructuring of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, the upgrading of a system for civil protection volunteering, the reorganisation of the Fire Corps and other provisions' comes at a time when, firstly, climate change is manifested with more frequent and fierce weather patterns testing to our infrastructure, secondly, the arbitrary human activity that has become almost a norm multiplier of the risks and effects of any possible natural disaster, thirdly, scientific and technological data and international experience are progressing rapidly by giving new outlets and new tools to the fight against natural hazards, fourthly, it is proving failure by the application of the existing framework, which has not only protected, but has collapsed and carried away from the loss of human life. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the answers to all of this, it is the fulfilment of the obligation of the political system to create a modern, effective, institutional framework for protecting our country's life and property and natural environment. This constitutional obligation of the state comes today the Government of New Democracy boldly and politically bravely to implement with this bill what comes to a vote from the Greek Parliament, a bill well-processed, well-processed in every aspect of it, working with a strong and experienced staff, a bill that, after public consultation and constructive discussion, comes to four meetings of the Committees of Government and the Environment today in plenary and aspires to benefit from the widest possible confidence since it lays the foundations from the very beginning and builds the construction of civil protection and at the same time builds on new solid foundations and upgrades the operation of the Firehouse that brings it to the main arm of civil protection for our country. If we look back historically, we will see that the first framework entitled "Political Protection Organization" appears in 1995, supplemented in 2002, after 2003 and 2006, and with Law 4249/2014 it was attempted to modernise it, but without ever being achieved, since a series of implementing and regulatory decrees were never adopted and the country suffered one damage after another with a common feature not finally knowing who gives the orders, who has the responsibility for decision-making, what the structure of decision-making is, and in the end we had the phenomena of disseminating responsibilities, since one was blamed on the other and paid for it. You do not need to be an expert to see that, in particular, the lack of coordination, structural contagion and operational weaknesses have made the law of 2002 obsolete and unable to respond to the current climatic, technological and social conditions, which unfortunately has proved to be the case with disastrous results. If, therefore, we agree on the need for a new, modern and effective institutional framework for civil protection, then I believe that unanimously we will agree that this draft law is an intrinsic part of crisis management, first of all, the prevention and response of risks, is innovating the immediateness of interventions and preventive interventions and with its provisions, making use of the voluntary movement, reorganising the structure and functioning of the Firehouse, which, as I said before, is reflected in the main lever of civil protection. Ladies and gentlemen, it is first because it responds exactly to all the problems of the existing legal framework, establishing a vertical structure with clear competences, so that instead of the division and dissemination of irresponsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsible-responsibility, we can now know who is doing what, who controls who is doing it and who is responsible for what has been done it. And this is done with a structure by the national commander and thirteen regional governors, people of experts and acquainted with civil protection procedures. I would like to stress that this is not just another civil protection bill, but it is about creating a national mechanism. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time we have created a National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management with a fully vertically integrated structure in the US FEMA and Russian EMERCOM model and clear competences for all levels of administration, namely the central one, after the regional one and, thirdly, for the local level by ensuring shorter decision-making, reaction, the elimination of bureaucracy, but also the diffusion regime and, ultimately, the withdrawal of responsibilities. Article 11 provides for the coordinating bodies of civil protection. Article 12 defines the maximum coordination body. Article 13 recommends regional civil protection coordination bodies, which operate continuously and continuously, to be established at regional level by decision-making - take care - of the regional director. In addition to the regional and regional civil protection coordinator, as defined by the district commander, the spatial and thematic counter-regions, the senior guard commander, the fire commander, the regional police director, the port commander and the health officer shall be involved. At the same time, Article 14 sets out the responsibilities of these regional civil protection coordination bodies. I mention, for example, that they are following the design of the regional emergency management frameworks, the WFPs, they are planning, organising and implementing actions to inform and notify citizens and others. I referred to them, because all those who, at the meetings of the committees, were questioned whether or not they were involved, that is, the regional directors, the regional directors, the thematic vice-presidents and others, seem to be actively involved in the system in clear and clear terms. But do you know what's changing? We will now know that at the time of the crisis we will not desperately look for a political person on the phone, but one, the responsible coordinator, the regional coordinator of civil protection. The same clear involvement and involvement provides for the bill with Article 15 for each municipality of Greece, which is set up locally operational, coordination civil protection bodies, with clear responsibilities, which are created by the mayor and which participate, apart from the mayor who presides and the vice mayor, the Head of the independent civil protection section, and all the local actors involved, not to mention them again. The three levels of crisis management, which are vertically integrated, have direct interdependence and vertical structure, as the local helps the regional community and regional helps the central coordination centre. It is worth staying here a little further in local government and I say that the actions that are being organised and implemented by the mayors and local coordination centres are mentioned in Article 16. Also, the involvement of self-government is described in Articles 19, 20, 21, entitled "Supporting services of National Mechanism" and I distinguish the paragraph (e) of Article 20 and the paragraph (e) of Article 21, which provides that the registrant and the mayor respectively are responsible for drawing up within eighteen months, with their sole responsibility, an emergency plan for which on a monthly basis the mayor will report to the regional coordinator, with an updated list of human resources and resources. Because, ladies and gentlemen, those who have been mayors know very well what it is to snow suddenly and unforeseenly and to find employees at the peak of the phenomenon. Apart from crisis management, however, the second major innovation in this bill is efficiency in risk prevention. The draft law meets the three conditions for effective prevention: firstly, the existence of a mechanism for recording and studying risks; secondly, the existence of a mechanism and flexible financing; and thirdly, the possibility of a rapid delegation and implementation of urgent measures. For the first time, a National Database of Risks and Threats, Loss, Destroyance, is established with Articles 22 and 23. And not only is there a register of Risk Records established, but the claim of European funding is also strengthened, since the existence of this national basis is a criterion for future European funding. Secondly, emergency management frameworks are being established, the MIPs to which I referred earlier, with Article 10. Thirdly, it is established under Article 40 Crisis Management Study Centre, the so-called CEMIC. Fourthly, for the first time, under Article 26 and its innovative regulation, areas threatened with special mobilisation may be declared. It is for the first time foreseen under Article 42 ‘fast track’ procedures for the rapid licensing and the execution of emergency small-scale and preventive projects, and in fact within ninety days, since they are, of course, assessed by the Risk Assessment Committee, and an Economic Services Directorate is set up under Articles 44 to 52, which is essential for managing the funds of the upgraded civil protection policy. With regard to the rapid award and implementation of projects, it is recommended under Article 37 that the National Civil Protection Agency, as well as Article 38, Operational Risk Prevention and Management Fund, the so-called ERDF, should be established. However, in addition to the prevention and management of crises, in which, of course, the bill is first and foremost and fundamentally altering philosophy, the draft law can also be taken into account, and the exploitation and management of the intellectual potential, first of all by replacing the non-functional regulatory framework of volunteers, with a clear set of operational involvement rules, with regard to the volunteering of civil protection, with emphasis on the protection of volunteers, their education, and with a clear categorisation of voluntary organisations, which can now be strengthened by materials and instruments to better integrate them into the National Civil Protection Mechanism. But since we are talking about intellectual potential, above all we are talking about the Fire Corps, which is upgraded through the bill and made with the Greek Police a fundamental pillar of the protection of the life and property of Greek citizens. The upgrade starts with the education, training and training of the Fire Department officials, the reform of the Fire Academy and the establishment of the National Crisis Management School, which is first structured at the Fire Academy, secondly at the Academy of Civil Protection and thirdly at the Centre of Special Training. In parallel to the training of executives and the integration of the system of introduction into the pan-Hellenic exams, the bill goes on to decentralisation, with the creation of new decentralised regional administrations, with specific local competences and administrative and operational autonomy. A firefighting industry and administrative support branch is established, subject to the relevant addresses, departments and offices. The bill upgrades a large part of the fire workers, graduates and graduates, with the introduction of staff posts of special tasks, engineers, economists, law. However, the upgrading of the operation of the Fire Corps is also going through something else. It passes through a pioneering evaluation system of officers, through a rated rated rating table, impartial, transparent and worthy, but not only of officers but also of low-grade fire personnel, restoring existing inequalities. And all this is done on the basis of measurable elements of professional competence, so that the strains of the Fire Corps operate in a level playing field and are judged by their personal performance alone. The same reasoning prevailed in the reform of the provisions on transfers, for which the adoption of a new, technically sound transfer regulation is now envisaged, based on mobilisation for all, ensuring a better distribution of staff in the territory, as well as an exemption from the logic of customer and ruptured logic. The draft law, other than the permanent ones, shall also regulate five-year obligation issues, since Article 180 deletes the concept of potential renewal and expressly provides that the contract is renewed under the terms and conditions of paragraph 7. In addition, paragraph 2 of 180 eliminates the age limit, unregulated transfer and distraction issues are currently regulated, gives retrospectiveness to the molecules of transfers to those who have been permanently permanently recruited, gives the possibility to re-entry for the next four years of those who have been employed in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, since I heard the bodies, I have made sure that everyone finds that the bill is in a positive direction and that some bodies, perhaps common to the current logic of their involvement in the existing system, want to continue a similar system, giving their participation a greater role, regardless of whether or not this participation would be more beneficial to the end result. It is clear that this draft law creates another kind of structure, it actually creates a national mechanism, a strong General Secretariat for Civil Protection and a mechanism for direct and effective response, both at operational level and at the level of preventive intervention and financing of construction and infrastructure. The new law, with its respective decrees and decisions, which will be adopted as soon as possible, will certainly be a possible weapon for Greek society in the battle against any kind of crisis of physical or technological destruction, especially now that all scientists worldwide warn us that in the coming years it will be very difficult in terms of the effects of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, by analyzing and studying one - one of the articles in the bill and invoking my multiannual experience in self-government, I can today tell you that I am convinced that this is an important section, a step forward in logic, mentality, but also in the structure of civil protection in the country. I am sure that this bill is the nationally required response to Mandra's unanswered 'why'. It's our contribution to the memory of the losers in Matty. It is the minimum contribution of the country's multiplely exposed political system to restoring the non-existent in recent years of people's confidence in this. Today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, is the New Democracy's contribution to building from the principle of society's lost confidence in the state. And that is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. I should like to invite the rapporteur, on behalf of SYRIZA, Ms. Harula Kafantaris. You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u5	Good morning, Mr President, everyone. Today we are discussing a draft law very important. This is essentially a multi-project which is not just about civil protection with 54 articles. It concerns the restructuring essentially of the Firehouse through 108 articles, it has arrangements for voluntary organisations with 18 articles, arrangements concerning the transfer of the General Secretariat for Anti-Criminal Policy by the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, an article by the Ministry of Health, and of course, we also have an amendment on immigration tabled last night. This is a bill, which came to a New Year's Eve consultation. And that says something. This consultation lasted for about thirteen days, but without the opinion of the Standing Committee on Otto Responsibilities. I would also say that there are doubts as to whether the relevant ministries have been consulted. For twelve ministries sign this draft law. What is civil protection? Based on Law 3013/2002, the State is operating to protect the life, health and property of its citizens, to protect against natural and other disasters causing emergency situations during a peaceful period, as well as to care for material or cultural goods, wealthy sources, infrastructurals of the country, with a view to minimising the consequences and disasters. It is based on a quadruple risk recognition, preparation - prevention, impact mitigation - preparedness - treatment, short recovery. Civil protection is a national matter, ladies and gentlemen. It is a matter of many services, private and public bodies, but also of all citizens. A modern model of civil protection is therefore required to respond to three main questions: the successful coordination of actions, the decision-making process - who decides - elimination of bureaucracy. And all this, especially after the events and disasters we had and experienced a year ago in Matti, Mandra, Halkidiki, Evia and other regions, makes it necessary to restructure the system. The problem of civil protection is the non-horizontal interconnection of a mechanism and not the creation of new administrative structures. There must be decentralised civil protection instruments and services must communicate with each other. Today we are experiencing the era of the climate crisis, a global issue. The world community is concerned, scientists clearly warn, extreme weather phenomena grow in number, but also fierceness. So natural and environmental disaster management policies must incorporate policies to prevent and tackle the consequences of climate change. This is necessary because, it seems, human life costs will be increased geometrically, while damage recovery costs will be increased exponentially. That is why we also need a modern, efficient and restructured civil protection system in our country. SYRIZA in October 2019 submitted a draft law that was established - we did not have time to vote when SYRIZA was a government - but this draft law came after a significant consultation with positive comments from the CEDEFOP, the European Civil Protection Mechanism, the Standing Committee on OTA Responsibilities Control, while incorporating the scientific documentation and adopting the most modern and productive elements from Europe, the United States and Canada. We were talking about a single emergency body with a central idea of unifying all the available scientific and human resources associated with the political decision to prevent both the business and the rehabilitation with a commander, which will be a person of knowledge and competence and with a choice with specific criteria and an international competition. With a board of scientists, where Dimitrios, HMY, the National Observatory, the Hellenic Space Agency will be involved for natural disasters. With a permanent command officer from the Firefighting, the EKA, the Police, GEN, the GSP, the Forest Services. Using and renewing the resources and personnel of the Armed Forces, taking into account volunteers. Enhanced by the institution of command - incident. In order to finance this programme, the European Commission has made moves and contacts even with the European Investment Bank, through the ESRB's resources. On the other hand, the draft law which has been tabled and which we are debating today in the House only answers the main questions and questions. We have said to the committee that no issues are solved. Neither the experience of natural disasters in the country nor the international experience is considered. This draft law is dysfunctional, dysfunctional, multi-teaching and creates a new bureaucracy. It is also rough and contradictory. I shall mention one feature: Article 3 and Article 28. In Article 3, the national mechanism shall be supervised by the Secretary-General for Civil Protection and in Article 28 the General Secretariat for Civil Protection shall constitute an overriding operational structure of the national mechanism. One understands the contradiction and curiosity. We note that civil protection is not an operational body. The main operational arm is the Fire Corps. I'm coming to Article 10. The General Secretariat may adopt decisions involving organic units of ministries, regions, regional units and municipalities and confer powers. The definition, the EIPA - framework for emergency management - is not defined by the Secretary-General. They are defined here, but must be defined by law and after consultation. The SYRIZA draft law identified the emergency functions. Specifically, nineteen functions. In Greece, of course, only four were organized. So is that a constitutional thing that has been mentioned? Does the services of ministries, regions and municipalities agree? Is HSY and CEDEFOP agreed? Especially in the consultation with the institutions that came, we have seen that there have been considerable disagreements in this regard. We recommend that the Secretary-General issue circulars, instructions and on the basis of them draw up local and regional coordination protocols with the responsibility of mayors, regional authorities and ministries. In Article 13, which contains regional, operational and coordinating bodies. A poster will make up for the district chief? Organisational and operational issues of regional coordination bodies will be regulated by decision of the Secretary-General? Where's the selflessness of the Ottas? In Article 14(a), the regional coordination is directing the work of the local community. Where is the division of powers and responsibilities I and II levels of self-government? Question: Is this a constitutional one? In Articles 13-18: A poster, appointed, will direct, coordinate all actions of civil protection and local government? The proposal of HSPE in this article is operational to lead the Head of Organic Units in municipalities and regions, not the poster. That's what we agree. Also, who is responsible for informing and warning citizens? Instead of having an instrument at local and regional level, Article 14 is the regional coordination of civil protection, the regional - operational. What's going on in a municipality? I now come to Article 24: state of affairs assessment. The first correspondents will appreciate the situation. What scientific and technical information? Where's EMY? Where are the scientific bodies? Even a professor who came to the consultation and who represented the tsunami body raised these issues. There are Article 30, which we consider to be very important, over-responsibility for the Secretary-General. We are talking about the creation of one - let me - the Deputy Minister. In fact, in the bill, the expression ‘by decision of the Secretary-General’, ‘Opinion of the Secretary-General’, ‘Responsibility of the Secretary-General’ is mentioned 90 times. And about 50 times the General Secretariat for Civil Protection is mentioned. Even the requisitions, which under Law.4325/2015 are responsible for the Prime Minister, are the responsibility of the Secretary-General. However, sloppyness occurs in others. I now come to the article on organised prevention of citizens. This is where a multitude of addresses arises. With Article 36, we have the ESKERIC, the National Crisis Management Coordinating Centre, a special agency under the Firehouse, rather than under the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. With what staff, with what staff, can this body deal with all kinds of natural disasters, which are not just fire or flood issues? We're talking about viruses, biological attacks and stuff like that. We are now coming to Article 38 on the fund. A fund is being created. You did not, of course, convince us through the committee procedure for the necessity. Why don't you put an account under public investment to raise the money? In Article 39 for the National School in relation to education and its relationship to the Fire Academy, a new structure, a legal person governed by public law, where the Fire Academy is subject to a history of fifty years old. There are serious objections here. And the Centre for Special Training is being established together. A new study centre is also being set up, CEMIC. While there are relevant addresses in Ministries - and this will be analysed by other colleagues from SYRIZA - such as the Ministry of Transport, the forestry services at the Ministry of Transport, etc., are assigned and works are carried out outside environmental conditions, outside specific legislation and under Article 42 will be done with the Secretariat-General. This is a very serious issue that raises questions and we think about things that can be created. With regard to the very important Article 53, which concerns confidentiality, we are firmly opposed. We were not satisfied with the answers we received from the Minister during the committees. So what do we mean 'confidential funds'? I'm not talking about needs, I'm talking about funds. Pumpets ‘under the table’, not embossed; What do they mean? That is a question we want an answer. It is also a feature of the curiosity that in Article 175 you are reintroducing the cooperation of a Fire Corps and Forest Services, when from 3-5-2019 there is KYA and FEK 1525 of relevant cooperation. I now come to the issues of fire-fighting, which are most of the articles, and we will be in plenary, because there are too many issues. I'll say a few things about it. With Article 75, we are afraid that you are giving the Fire Corps the possibility of entrusting services to individuals on a fee basis. A curious privatization of the Fire Corps begins, and the very basic thing is its significant deterioration. In Article 77, the positions of generals, captains, are increased overweight. At what cost? Why? Have you calculated the burden of the state budget and of the funds? In Article 114 there are improvements to low-wage staff, a request for decades and a trade union movement. But it is not in the direction of creating a rating. Also, with Article 127 you are building a party army of the future, we would say. It may also be with the arrangements that the younger and older may be promoted. As far as transfers are concerned, we consider that the proposals of the institutions should be taken into account, that there should be no injustice between old and new workers, that there should be substantial transitional provisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, two more minutes. I'll take time from my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u6	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u7	We do not agree with the transfer system. It's a clientele. We ask that it be transparent and worthy, that the officials' irreversibility be guaranteed, and this article specifically affects the five-year workers in the Fire Corps who have now joined the Fire Corps. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be specific reference to justice issues and our SYRIZA colleague. I will say, however, that we are opposed to this transfer of the General Secretariat of Crime Policy to the Ministry of Civil Protection from the Ministry of Justice. In Article 183 you go to "beat" things, because you are unable to complete the recruitment of five hundred employees through ADP. On the other hand, prison issues also come in. That's very important. You are attempting to become the principle of private prisons, with what this means, through PPP procedures, construction, etc., not with the relevant PPP public service. We appreciate it being unconstitutional. We see privatization of the hard core of the state: Army, Police, Guards. Your doctrine, of course, is: Law, order and business. I would like to say a few words about the amendment that has been tabled on immigration. You land gradually in reality. Regarding the National Coordinator you voted for, with responsibility, you are now coming and you are undoing a lot. On too many issues you have backed up and changed them. You land slowly. The same is true of the creation of the Ministry of Migration Policy. One of the first moves of the Mitsotakis government when it took over was that it abolished it. Now you've rebuilt it. We oppose closed centers - prisons. There are programs in SYRIZA that were implemented for immigrants and refugees, apartments, specific programmes. I won't mention it. Anyway, an article that we consider to be in a positive direction in this part is that you at last support the municipalities. You need to think about the rewards, etc., and the local communities, which we see in what state they are. Why? Because there is no real immigration policy as well. From what we have said, you understand that we are negative to this draft law. This, of course, does not mean that many individual articles will be voted on and we will see this in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, return to normality is the parliamentary procedures to take place as they used to be. Two meetings, one on the principle and one on the articles, should normally be held so that we can discuss such a serious and critical plan as a national delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty-one students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd Arsaceio Tosiceio Municipal School of Ekalis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Kaminas, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the concept of civil protection presents strong similarities and analogies to the state of war. In both cases a social formation is called upon to defend itself against a disaster which threatens the most vital, collectively, but also individual goods, human life, health, the natural environment, cultural wealth, property and so on. In both cases an organised state structures its defence in four stages: prevention, preparedness, response and rehabilitation. The fundamental feature in both emergencies is the single command, when we are in particular in the response stage, that is, when the crisis has emerged openly. Then, just as in the war, in civil protection the state of emergency asks a general. The worst thing that can happen in such a situation is the diffusion of responsibility. Following the painful experiences in Mandra and Matti, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that major natural disasters are usually unfolding at the level of the self-government region. It will therefore be extremely helpful to formulate a global crisis on the bill to see how it integrates the self-government regions into the mechanism of civil protection. The answer, as we have repeatedly been able to highlight in the parliamentary committee, is unfortunately negative, because at the specific level of administration, where the tragic experiences have shown us that the roles must be clear, that is exactly where the bill is confusing as it creates parallel structures. What do I mean? The regional director shall be assisted, as reasonable is, by his services, in particular by the independent Civil Protection Directorate provided for in Article 20 of the draft law and shall have the task of coordinating the work of civil protection by territorial authority. But, already in Law 4623/2019, thirteen regional civil protection coordinators, appointed by the district manager, had been created, but with the agreement of the Secretary-General of Civil Protection, with responsibility, as their title dictates, to coordinate. They are thirteen counties, to which, as the case may be, the regional director is assigned tasks solely to him. So the question arises here who will coordinate the coordinators. In essence, this question also begins with the memorandum presented to us by the Committee of the Regions, where it is made very discreetly, but it is clear that there is a need for full clarification and delimitation of the powers and jurisdiction of the regional coordinator, the regional director, the spatial districts and the civil protection officials of the regions. All this brings us to the confusion that has prevailed for months in the field of immigration and refugee, where the government successively appointed coordinators to the coordinators, so that after a six-year-old end the Ministry of Migration Policy would die, which she had moved to abolish immediately after the elections. And all this is the amendment that came to us last night on the responsibilities of Mr Stefani. Mr Stefanis had been banned - if we remember correctly - as the absolute sovereign in managing the refugee in a national co-ordinator position. Yesterday's amendment becomes a mere guardian of the borders. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to stress the importance of the country's immigration policy and the cost of all this time it has leaked. However, in the field of civil protection, as the tragic experiences in Mandra and Matti reminded us, the wrong organisational options may have not only painful but irreparable consequences. I mean losing human lives again. In any case, we have formulated our positions. The effects of climate change, as well as the asymmetrical threats that may occur at any time, require a holistic approach that dictates the coexistence of all structures and services directly to the Prime Minister, even through the creation of a ministry here with the Prime Minister. I hope that our assessments, as in the case of the refugee, are not verified, because what we see is that a Secretary-General's position is being established instead of the Ministry, who is always present and everything is being paid. What other Secretary-General, i.e. a posted official appointed by party criteria, can recruit as his alternate another poster? What other Secretary-General may decide on financing intended to cover horizontal and interministerial needs? What other Secretary-General can he hire and dismiss boards of organs set up by him, even teaching staff in schools that are equivalent to HEIs? Who else has the power to conclude with his own decision memos with private operators for the provision of services and even to set their tariffs? Who else is recommended to an Interministerial Committee? Who else is in agreement on the appointment of a poster to a self-government local authority, such as the district hereditary? It is clear that this over-ambitious project cannot function at the level of a Secretary-General. The Secretary-General shall remain a senior, but a posted official. And it is obvious that the risk of not being heard at the critical moment by key factors, political, military and service forces. While the explanatory statement mentions the need for civil protection to be redefined in the current context of threats and others and also refers to a holistic approach, in essence the 2/3 legislation concerns firefighting. Even these arrangements are incomplete, as risks should have been defined, there should be a design of structures and functions based on these risks by region, there should be a design for infrastructure projects at all stages and especially at prevention, so that there can be an operational framework for civil protection. For the first time, classified funds are established in civil protection. They are to be managed under the minimum conditions of credibility, without a representative of the judiciary, with persons designated by the executive, while, of course, they remain undetermined. Civil protection is aimed at protecting against disasters - natural and technical - to which there are no national security issues, so that there is a need for classified management of resources. As far as the Fire Corps is concerned now, the bill regulates issues of the organization of the Fire Corps, as well as issues of hierarchy, evaluation and service development and changes of fire officers. Articles 77 and 79 redistribute the organisational positions of the staff and defines the organisational structure and structure of the services. However, the creation of service structures, the allocation, the increase or reduction of positions should be based on objective criteria and operational data to ensure transparency and reliability. It is therefore a serious study that will be a prerequisite for the creation of structures and for the distribution of positions. This will tell us what the needs are at every point in the precinct and such a study, unfortunately, is not foreseen. The proposal for the rating creates two speed firefighters. For the many - nine thousand six hundred firemen, firefighters and firefighters - there are only four steps of development, which means a lack of opportunities and incentives for the vast majority of workers. For the few there are thirteen steps. There is scope for improving the development of low-level staff and further rationalisation of the rating and it is necessary to explore the possibility of a faster development, the promotion of archivists to the extent of a firearm in twenty years of total service and not twenty-six. There are also non-productive firefighters. Perhaps they will enter the Archipelagos School without exams as supernumerals. Why? Because there is a need to strengthen the profile of the Fire Corps with qualified executives. There's for the firearms that need to be corrected. It is necessary to add to Article 181, to the ‘specific matters’, a transitional provision providing that the provisions of Article 114(4) apply also to pyrodics who at the time of entry into force of this law have eight years to the extent of them. The need for this provision lies in the fact that the wording of Article 184 excludes the possibility of promoting to the extent of the anti-missile a significant number of firearms carrying that figure not three years but eight years, and at the same time the possibility of these three years, provided that they have twenty-six years of total service. This inequality will inevitably lead to aggregation of court proceedings due to an unnecessarily overthrowing of the hierarchy. In the way we are proposing, it ensures the possibility of promoting the level of firefighting to both firefighting officials who have many years of total service, and to those who have, to date, been hierarchically superior to them, as they have been serving many years to the level of the firearm. For the five-year obligation: For them, as previously applied, it should be calculated from 2011, as foreseen by Law 3938, which incorporated them into organic fire-fighting positions, as is the case in the Army, for example. It's a matter of equality and dignity. I mean, the rating has to be predicted ever since. In Article 180, an addition should be made to the five-year term of office which in 2011 did not fulfil the conditions for permanentisation - age and education - to ensure their professional security until retirement, since they cover fixed and permanent needs. So far these people have had assurances from the political parties that they are oral. However, for reasons of legal certainty, their professional security must be incorporated into the law. A system of evaluation based on formal and practical qualifications is introduced. But there is a great parameter of essential qualifications and the risk of arbitrary crises is great. Criteria are laid down which do not specify professional status, for example courage. A specific framework is needed to describe and evaluate certain criteria. I should like to extend myself to the issues of supervised sites. For the time being, because there has been a lot of talk about this very positive measure, which has been legislated by the previous government on the eve of the elections, and now the possibility of creating these countries is being extended, with the guarantees, of course, provided for in the previous legislative framework, and by the local government, I would like to submit to the minutes a text drawn up by the European Centre, the Observatory, the Drugs Centre and the addiction, where it speaks in detail about these centres, how it operates in a number of European cities, the experiences gained from their operation and how it recommends their expansion into other European cities. I am tabling the relevant text on the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Georgios Kaminis presents for the Minutes the above text, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am committed to addressing these issues and everything else that emerges from the debate, as well as the issue of prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty students and students and a training meeting of the 16th Amarousi Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolis Synthrakis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. This legislative initiative on civil protection, volunteering and restructuring the Fire Corps can appear as innovative, that it is allegedly guaranteeing the safety of human life, natural wealth and cultural heritage, but in practice, in the view of the JRC, it undermines it and, indeed, systematically. That is why it is voting against. It integrates all the reactionary core that the European Union promotes in the area of civil protection and its use as a means of developing the profitability of business groups rather than protecting the country and the people from natural, technological and other disasters. That is why any disagreements of SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the other parties focus on secondary issues and not on the core of the draft law. All previous laws have also served the same objective since 1995 in the PASOK and New Democracy governments, which the SYRIZA Government has implemented. And they proved not only anachronistic and inefficient, but also criminals. Indisputable witness in Matti, Mandra, Crete, Halkidiki and dozens of other regions of the country that are the blackprint of the chronic criminal indifference of governments, with hundreds of dead, huge losses of popular property, housing, cultivation, livestock and infrastructure. From 1998 to 2018 we had more than five million acres of burnt forest wealth and two hundred and twenty-seven dead. The fires, the floods, the constant increase in accidents at work, which in 2017 alone became about seven and a half thousand - the largest number since 2000, with a continuous increase since 2012 - did not come as a result of any carelessness, nor as a divine punishment. It is the result of capitalist development that substantiates every inch of land and its uses in the capitalist exploitation, which trades everything in the interests of the great interests and has as the sole criterion the continued increase in capital gains, a development accompanied by a robbery of natural resources, competition for the ownership and control of wealthy sources, imperialist interventions, wars. It repulses man and destroys the environment. That is why it cannot deal with climate change. That is why the advanced states in the European Union and around the world - Spain, America, Australia, Portugal - cannot avoid major disasters and victims. Converting socially into individual responsibility for safeguarding even the fundamental needs of the residential workers is the cause of the earthquake-driven houses, the unacceptable conditions for the residence of millions of workers, for the victims of the floods. The inappropriate need for capital to exploit the land, human resources, forests, beaches, at times with tourist accommodation, sometimes with wind turbines and green investments, is the real cause of the enormous consequences of uncontrolled forest fires. Whatever side one looks at, one will see that behind the consequences of the so-called "extreme weather" is the capitalist development path that sacrifices every employee's right to ensure the profit of big capital. In our country, and no government, nor one of them, has ever planned, nor has it financed measures of earthquake, anti-military and anti-nuclear protection of the people, nor measures to protect workers in the workplace, nor health infrastructure, welfare, school roofing, sport, based on the modern needs of the people. So from identifying any changes in the climate and the severe weather phenomena to using climate change from governments to justify criminal management of the phenomenon at the expense of the people, there is an abysmal leap. Climate change and extreme weather phenomena are used as a convenient idea to cover up the simplest: that the only ultimately extreme phenomenon, which defines workers' lives, is the capitalist development path itself. And because we do not live in the prehistoric history or the period when people lived in shackles of straw huts, let us stop treating the people as if you were addressing natives. The people are neither coward nor fatal nor indifference. The change of attitude required is simple: Our opponent is not the climate and the weather. This is the capitalist development path that prevents us from living as we deserve. And today is the same game. The disasters are exploited on the one hand to promote expensive physical phenomena management projects, but they are designed on the basis of profit and not to meet people's needs - and that is why they are not going to solve any popular problems - and on the other hand, to convince workers that they must put a deep hand in their pockets and pay for new green development, which is to save the planet, hiding that their real goal is the huge green peas of three billion euros. Substantial prevention, but also genuine treatment of phenomena when they happen, is ultimately incompatible with capitalist development itself and this draft law is a typical example of this deadlock of development for the working people. It serves the objectives of the development law, a large part of which must be credited to the SYRIZA who prepared it, which grants "gear and water" to the large capital in order to be able to invest wherever it wants in civil protection, on whatever terms it wants, without compromising the effects on the people and the environment, even with the lifting of any protection framework it has had to date. The draft law is still geared towards repression, disaster management and not to prevention, which it considers to be cost. It provides, in the context of the formulation of national disaster risk reduction policy, for the participation of bodies, including the private sector, associated with disaster risk management. It excludes any serious attempt, on the basis of real scientific data, to assess the impact of a new industrial installation on the environment and in conditions of normal operation and in conditions of intense and unforeseen weather conditions or in a serious harm. For the JRC such an assessment is the cornerstone of a serious policy of prevention and civil protection. The draft law provides for the privatisation - commercialisation of civil protection and prevention by direct linking the official state structure with private entities, construction of fire-safety infrastructure with a public-private partnership, compensatory provision of services and the provision of staff and means with a tariff for each hour of use to business groups operating airports, motorways, ports, networks, special facilities and others, by payment in return or in kind. Also, through the sale of educational and research services to public and private bodies and citizens, through the privatisation of the Fire Academy, through the participation and funding of business groups in research, education, fire protection certification, through the Crisis Management Study Centre and the National Crisis Management School, including the Fire Academy. It is also distinguished from a lack of criteria, principles, processes and guidelines for a number of issues, such as effective risk prevention, land use criteria, security distances between industrial and residential activities, roads of mass escape, free areas of refuge and others, an integrated risk assessment for the specific characteristics and activities of each region, population, as well as emergency plans by type of risk. It maintains the subsistence, insufficient means and infrastructure of the state services and especially the Fire Corps, Forest Service, State Structures, Hospitals, Health Centers etc. There is no real provision for the preparation, substantial information and education of the population. It closes eyes to the infrastructure necessary to prevent disasters and to enable their plans to be effectively implemented. It continues to provide reduced funding from the State budget for studies, required projects and infrastructures, for adequate anti-nuclear, anti-military and earthquake protection, weakens civil protection services, the Fire Corps, Forest Service, relevant municipalities and regions services in personnel, facilities, equipment and infrastructure. You lie that money cannot be found when at the same time for infamous sustainable development there are debts of billions in monopolistic groups or they are exempted from their taxation when four billion euros are wasted annually, when the government at the 'HRAKLIS' project reintroduced the banking system with 12 billion euros and so much more. The draft law militates the Fire Corps and maintains it in the Security Corps, contrary to the social character of its role and mission, by establishing the weaponry of firearms in interrogation officials. It integrates Political Protection into NATO's planning, with NATO's special office being set up in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, and provides for cooperation with European Police and budgeting of the General Secretariat of Special Credentials. It also promotes the substitution of a significant part of the services of the Fire Corps by volunteering and non-governmental organisations, together with the assignment of fire protection, fire protection, fire stations and stairways to the regions and municipalities, by establishing thirteen regional civil protection centres and local civil protection coordination bodies, without ensuring the necessary personnel and resources, by charging popular families with additional taxes and fees. It broadens the flexible working relationships in the field of fire safety and the protection of local government bodies, the Fire Corps and the structures of the General Secretariat. It expands seasonality and continues recruitment with the five-year regime. It establishes unpaid overworking in permanent, five-year and seasonal. It creates minimum wages and ratings for low-grade permanent and contractors. It establishes flexibility and mobility. It abolishes the irreversibleity of firefighting officers, restoring their avengers continuously and exterminately. It applies the assessment of officials and fire services, aiming at further questioning the right of permanent and stable work, reducing staff and infrastructure and scaring workers, while referring to the call for recognition of the profession as a heavy and unhealthy profession. Ladies and gentlemen, the expectations that the government is seeking to cultivate through its promises to create an effective mechanism for preventing and limiting major disasters, protecting life and property, infrastructure and the environment are disguised in the most revealing way. The huge bureaucratic crisis management and risk management mechanism planned to be established, the referral of numerous decisions to the Secretary-General with the incredible superpowers on his face, joint ministerial decisions and presidential decrees, as well as the nature of the changes to the draft law and its targets serve the goals of the reactionary state to promote capitalist development, further increasing the risks and stepping up the absence of coordination. That is why, unfortunately, it will not be long before we have reintroduced even greater disasters and new loss of human life. The JRC has publicly submitted to the people, in conferences, events at the workplaces throughout the country, its positions for the overall planning of civil protection, for each side of natural and technological disasters, as well as for the integrated response, focusing on the interaction of all risk factors. The JRC no doubt believes that the great development of science and technology today enables us to minimize the consequences of our people's lives and property. We call on the working class, the people's families, firefighters, the working people's movement with determination to fight to satisfy their own needs, protect their lives and property. The organisation of civil protection, the treatment of natural and technological disasters at the level of structure, infrastructure, equipment, planning and management must be of exclusive concern and responsibility for the state, without NGO and unpaid work, with brave funding from the state budget and mass support with permanent staff. Only then can an integrated, substantial scientific design of combined valuation for all risks, physical and technological, education and information for the population, development of research in this direction under the responsibility of the State itself. Only then can there be integrated design of infrastructure, counter-flood protection, integrated forest management, prosthetic control and protection measures for public buildings and collecting sites for many people, substantial and continuous control of static adequacy and safety of all buildings in the event of earthquake, risk assessment, continuous controls and all necessary risk minimisation measures in technological installations. And finally, for the Fire Corps, we believe that in the current conditions it should be fully demilitarised on the basis of the service of its social mission, with responsibility for the treatment of urban and forest fires, rescues and fire safety. Rehabilitate their wage losses and ensure all pensions, wage rights for employees, safety and hygiene conditions, and their integration into heavy and unhealthy. Monitor all contractual firefighters, including five-year-old firefighters, with a stable working relationship, to meet all needs for the prevention, preservation and protection of forest ecosystems. To abolish all public-private partnership programmes and all business activities in education and research, which enhance the privatisation of sectors of the Fire Force and provide direct funding for the modernisation of infrastructure, fleet, logistics, supply of reliable personal equipment to all fire personnel, exclusively from the State budget. We stand alongside fire extinguishers who are fighting the dignity of life to have full cover and insurance, pension rights. Today they are out here giving this battle to defend their interests and rights. We stand by them and give together with all the people's movement the battle so that the Civil Protection is a key element in protecting human life, in protecting the environment. In all these words, we end up voting against this draft law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u12	I call on the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr Antonio Mylonakis, who has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr Secretary-General, shortly before the elections the Greek people had their cross, saying "When will these fake left-wings of SYRIZA leave with the neoliberal dome, who have ruled the country for four and a half years and have destroyed it in full?" God put his hand in and left. And you, gentlemen of the New Democracy. I fear that much faster the Greek people will do so again, make their cross and say "God, when will they leave?" And I am serious about this because it is not possible for one mistake, one wrong planning to succeed with the other. In managing a crisis and dealing with an emergency three things cannot be called into question: Prevention, addressing and ending, rehabilitation. If you believe, Mr General and Minister, that the bill you are bringing to plenary today and passed by our committee at four meetings where all views and institutions have been heard, if you believe that, with this massive, multi-teaching, bureaucratic and very fearless draft law, you are not going to be exposed again, you are wrong. You know, Mr Chrysochoid, when you brought the first plan for illegal immigrants, we told you that you would need many corrections and many plans to manage the issue of illegal immigrants. If you tell me right now that the Greek doesn't make his cross every day when he wakes up about what will dawn, about what will happen to him, you won't be telling the truth. You see what's going on in the remote islands, you see what's going on in Lesvos. The design fails and will fail every day while you do not follow the Greek Solution. That's why the Greek Solution came in, he came in to advise, to suggest and give solutions. But you don't follow her. You do the same in foreign policy matters. Unfortunately, you follow SYRIZA's pseudo-left policy. What planning was this, sending a fryer, a warship and watching for 30 hours an oceanography swinging around with the cables stretched and documenting what he wants? The fryer, the warship, you need to know that we're sending it to business only. Send a ferry to say: get out of here because you're in our territorial waters, you're on our continent. And the Turkish master responded, the captain of the oceanography: “It is our EOZ.” And what did the frying do? He sat down and recorded how many hours and at what points the oceanography takes. Same as the Prespecies Agreement. Same in sport. Your design always fails. Now let's go see what's going on in this bill. It is a summation of a hundred and ninety articles, of which some seventy-three articles concern civil protection. What we need to see is whether this bill answers the questions we asked at the beginning. So I'm telling you he doesn't answer anyone. All he does is structure a giant mechanism with a leader who is now declared to be a State Secretary, since he even has the Fire Corps under him. The majority rapporteur said that the Fire Corps along with the Greek Police is a Security Corps. So a Security Corps is under the secretary-general? And I am not talking about what you are bringing along with the bill, that is, a very rough restructuring of the Fire Corps. In Article 189, you bring places of drug surveillance within the municipalities of mobile units. And it says the Change Movement "we are proud of it"! I will congratulate Mrs Marietta Giannakou on this step, which was strong in committee first of all to say 'I, gentlemen, do not vote for this'. How do we vote, Minister and General, on these issues? Is it possible to open all municipalities to drugs? First of all, didn't we say that drugs are the bad wound to the lives of young people? We have children, we have grandchildren. What do we do? [[Noise in the Chamber]] So let's go because what we're talking about today is very serious. So too much competence to one person, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection. Overpower. And at the same time it is loaded with incredible responsibilities, disproportionate to a person's potential. It's not that I have no confidence in the Secretary-General, Mr. Chardalia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u14	Please, be quiet. Respect the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u15	The design to prevent, deal with and restore the crisis must be...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u16	Mrs. Pipili, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u18	Please. Continue, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u19	Mr. President, will it finally stop?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u20	Please stop! Mr. Mylonakis, go on, because if you don't keep going, they don't stop. Proceed and you will be given the time of the interruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. There are some who cannot afford to hear truths. The planning for the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of a crisis, such as a crisis that may be the victims, Minister, as we had from time to time since 1983, reminded you of the great fires of Ikaria until 2019 from the catastrophic floods in Mandra, from the huge national disaster in Eye and Halkidiki, we have mourned, I inform you, four hundred eighty-five dead, and eleven million eighty-five thousand acres of wood burned. And all this because we've always been planning on one point: how to make addresses. Good addresses, and I'll report what address you're going to make. Each address has the secretary, has the director-general, has the people who do what? First of all, this bill - and you need to see it very seriously - lacks an annex. I said it in the first speech to the committee. The establishment plan is missing. We haven't seen any decentralized administration anywhere. We built a National Coordinating Centre run by a man and I ask you how the small business centers will be built when the fire in Rhodes, Halkidiki, Alexandroupolis, the Peloponnese will be uncontrolled. We therefore need to have taken care of decentralisation from now on. The national coordination centres in the regions must be manned, the district manager must know who he will coordinate, who he will be next to, because there will be air force advisers for aircraft, the Army for the Army, the Police Police. This is all to be contained in a bill in detail. Here we have a general bill with a central administration that we expect from a man here in Athens. And he'll be forced to run. And if we have three fires at the same time as we're clearing it, there's gonna be three pieces. So it's not real, is it? Reality is simple. What do we got? We have personal and material. Is the material there? What will every district officer get in every district? Do we have helicopters? Do we have aircraft? The CL fleet is scheduled to replace it, why is he obsolete? Have we anticipated how many aircraft will be needed to rent aircraft if we don't have to be ready for the start of the anti-missile season? Has the municipality plans been submitted to the regions updated and tested? You know, we're going to the big offices and we've seen plans. If the plan has not been updated today and has not been tested today, it is an invalid plan. He'll never pay off. Where are the transmissions? Where are the radios? Are there all this? There's nothing of this and you can see it in article, if you want. And because he's the majority rapporteur for the bill who said it's a deep cut, I see an incision, that the next big destructive fire will find us unprepared again and we will say the same things, which we are dismissing. Prevention. What do we do from this moment? I'm asking you a simple question, Mr. General, and answer when it's time to speak. Have you given a mandate to update and to come to you the forest maps updated with the routes? How's the huge fire truck going in the woods? I'm telling you things we've detected in fires. I'm not telling you things that I can get from a foreign literature and write them down. It's very simple. Have we seen if there are any anti-nuclear belts? Are we cleared? I was told this morning - the children are up here - that there are some programmes - and I think you should see them too - of the OAED that put people with eight months and went into the forests, cleaned, controlled and did all these things that are involved in prevention. And now this program has stopped. Do we have people who know the forest in the regions? Good volunteers. But if the volunteer wants to come, he'll come, if he wants, he won't come. If he can, he'll be here. Until he's taken his family, he's going to secure her. So are we just hanging on the volunteer, or should we have people in the woods now, know the forest, clean up the woods? Have you seen how the pine cone is tossed? Two hundred yards of distance. Do you know how the fire comes at 50 meters? In tenths of a second, through the pinebell. But where is everything? Who's gonna do this? He's nowhere to be mentioned. Anarchist construction. What do we do for building? Do you know what any government has done so far? He says, "How do I get money from the man who smuggled a house into the woods? I should like to legitimize it, since it has water, and it also has current." That's what we could all do. It's so easy. But we have to put the knife to the bone sometime. At some point we have to say "Since now and not, brother. Not all of them for the pillows. People are burning, burning properties, burning forests. All for one vote? It's not worth it. We've said it. In the Greek Solution, the only thing that has never been of interest to us is to steal the vote from the Greek people by lying to him. We'll never tell lies. Or we'll go home. Cleaning of wells. Is anything wrong? I haven't seen anything, and it's February. In two months, the anti-nuclear period is coming in. We will be unprepared again and we will be saying 'But we have made a plan'. We haven't done anything. I'm telling you. Now we have a Center for Crisis Management Studies with administrative and financial self-sufficiency and state grant, a new special address level agency called the NSA Civil Protection Executive, a legal person under private law the Operational Fund for Fire Prevention and Management and to establish the National Crisis Management School. Watch out what new pieces we've made. People inside, hire, pay. But the hands that will erase the fire don't exist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u22	Carry on, because you wasted time during the break.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u23	Good. Permanent Scientific Committee for Civil Protection and Risk Assessment or again advisory body, Directorate-General for Economic Services, which directly falls under the Secretary-General, the ILOs with three addresses themselves. As far as confidential expenditure is concerned, there must be no single euro. There must be no secret expenditure on civil protection. Everything will pass through the House. Explained things. It is neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the Civilian Civil Protection Service. We'll have a chance in dentistry to say more. What I want to say and to conclude is that it is very rough and the reorganisation of the Fire Corps and the wrong submission of this body to the Secretary-General. What we want to say again and emphasise again is Article 189 to get it back. In Article 114 we did everything we could - and the firemen could know - and what went through the hand and, fortunately, the master knew that he had to fix it. The correction is made. These people can't stay behind, who've been with more years of service. So it can't be done. Of course, with regard to the last amendment by the Ministry of Civil Protection for illegal immigrants, Minister, if possible! - SYRIZA did it. We didn't think you'd do that thing. Are you bringing an amendment to fund the mayors to say 'yes', so that you can bring them into the social fabric of the municipality the throttles? Where did that sound? There's gonna be bloodshed. You see what happens on the islands. Take them and put them in two - three uninhabited islands. Don't play with the lives of the Greeks. There'll be bloodshed, and you'll be morals. We've told you from the start. Watch out for that. Money to give the municipalities no more - it says - the end of the municipalities and the lighting, because they will accept poaching Muslims. And what's the point? Whatever SYRIZA did, you do it yourself. But if that's possible! Oh, my God, help! The Greek Solution will vote against, although it would like to vote, this bill by the Ministry of Civil Protection for the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, because it is a bill that will bring much more suffering than will improve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six ladies and gentlemen from the KAPI Municipality of Papagos - Hollargos. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u26	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u27	I'm making a series of legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u28	The reason is the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakadima, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr General, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we are living in a country where damage has been done many times, we have been afflicted, we have even grieved victims because of natural disaster, earthquake, intense snowfall, a storm. After all, we all remember what happened just before the New Year's Day on the Athens-Lamia National Road because of bad weather and bad manoeuvres, when the traffic stopped on both currents due to snowfall. The result was large tails and hundreds of immobilized cars for hours with a central road axis paralyzed. This chaos caused by the disastrous combination of bad weather, mismanagement and lack of coordination on the part of the authorities was followed by the replacement by Mr Chrysochoidis, the Minister of Civil Protection, the commander of the second section of the Athens motorways for road errors and omissions of traffic, and the announcements of the political leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure that he would do everything he could to keep the national road network open. Unfortunately, we have experienced many such scenes, especially when weather phenomena that are unobstructed in the climate of our country make their appearance and are extremist - in fact, we are giving them very imaginable names every time and I expect to see what name this weather that we expect in the next few days, with snowfall in Attica - mainly because the state mechanism appears unprepared and unable to respond with speed and adequacy. None of us can forget the tragic fire in Matti, but also all the previous ones, as well as the floods in Mandra. This fire in Eye cost more than a hundred people our lives, precisely because of the combination of an extreme weather phenomenon and insufficient coordination due to ignorance, panic or bad decision. To deal with major natural or administrative crises, there must be systematic preparation, education, but also a vigilance of the entire state mechanism, but also of citizens, following the most recent interdisciplinary approaches and exploiting, not only the expertise of specialized scientific resources, but also the empirical data, so that we can respond to the requirements of problems at every level of management and activity. Finally, at the level of coordination, a change in concepts of competences and technical dividing lines between operators is mainly necessary. In the light of all this, we have been very careful in this bill, because - it is true, at last - to set up an adequate mechanism to protect citizens effectively so that we do not have victims again, nor suffering due to bad weather and wrong manipulations. Unfortunately, however, we note at first glance that the legislation under discussion fails in advance to fulfil its objective and that for many reasons. First of all, we have another large bill of many hundreds of pages - seven hundred thirty two, if I am not mistaken, if we put the banned and all the reports - which stumbles on all the principles of good legislature, which, from the outset and on the relevant bill, is the government's euphoria. This draft law consists of a hundred and ninety articles, marrying important issues that should come separately, civil protection, the work of the Firehouse, the relocation of the Koridalus Prisons and many others, so that we do not have the time to discuss this despite the four meetings of the committee - three to be precise, because the latter is the hearing of the bodies - or the feedback from other competent committees in Parliament, which would have their own attention on matters relating to their own competences, such as the Social Affairs Committee on the part concerning the fire-fighting work. The draft law under discussion consists of four parts. The first is the recommendation of this Civil Protection Mechanism. We have the definition of service units and support services and disaster management strategy. The responsibilities and tasks of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and the obligations of stakeholders in a natural disaster are also specified. The second, according to the explanatory statement, is intended to regulate and redefined issues relating to mission, action, conditions for inclusion and deletion, education, evaluation, etc. volunteers, voluntary organisations and NGOs. The third attempts in detail to 'enhance the efficiency and productivity of the administrative and operational functions of the Fire Corps, while the fourth includes the other provisions. This is a series of arrangements concerning the General Secretariat of Crime Policy, the relocation of Korydallos Prisoners, service assignments without a contract notice, the modification of the powers of the Citizens' Counselor and the creation of supervised drug use sites. Generally speaking, the legislation seems to attempt to build a huge bureaucratic crisis management mechanism, which is probably said by other colleagues today, I imagine we will hear it then from the meeting - it creates new problems and is exacerbating existing problems, as many institutions, business centres, directorates, councils, committees, with many overlapping responsibilities, thus compiling a multi-fashioned grid without a clear functional structure. In short, this is a recipe that is sure to cause malfunctions. And that is not all, there is nowhere to be provided for the funding required from the state budget, so that all the studies needed to create all those required projects and appropriate infrastructures for adequate anti-nuclear, anti-military and anti-Semitism protection, when the draft law itself is filled with predictions of the establishments and recommendations of new bodies, centres, councils and committees. In addition, there is nowhere to be expected to strengthen services to staff, tools and equipment. We are talking about the infrastructures of civil protection, fire-fighting, the Forest Service, the competent services of the municipalities and regions. As far as the part of the reorganisation of the Fire Corps is concerned, it is probably not just a matter of maintaining, but also of further deepening the militarisation of the structure of the body, as it provides for its preservation in the Security Body and its cooperation with Europol and NATO through the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, in complete contrast to the social character of its role and mission. I should like to point out the following briefly on the individual points of the bill. Already from the first article on the first page of the bill, which includes definitions, an expanded scope of reference is identified, which does not restrict the General Secretariat's action in disasters from a natural cause. We have a reference to the definition of risk to 'human activity' and to the definition of vulnerability to'social factors or processes'. In addition, in many parts of the legislation, there are references not only to 'natural and technological' but also'relevant' or 'other' threats or disasters, for example Articles 2, 22, 25 and elsewhere, while we consider this to be a matter that needs clear and compelling clarification from the government. At the same time, in the context of the superpowers assigned to the Secretary-General for Civil Protection, who now receives the powers of the Deputy Minister - I dare say - he is also given the opportunity, although the principal general refused it at the committee meeting - to declare areas threatened by disasters in a situation of special mobilisation of civil protection, as provided for in Article 26. In addition, it is granted flexibility in white to conclude contracts as provided for in Article 54. The truth is, the government has a strong preference for creating positions that are over-concentrating responsibilities. It was not long ago that the National Coordinator for Migration, today, was the upgrade of the Secretary-General for Civil Protection. Of course, with the amendment tabled and for which I will be a little further, we have a redefinition of the responsibilities of the National Coordinator, rather than limiting them. So continuing, it is equally incomprehensible and the provision for the creation of a "special appropriation of secret national needs" in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, in the standards of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other Ministries, in accordance with Article 53. We are really unable to understand what purpose such a provision serves, what costs it will be called upon to cover, especially when it comes to an area that should be fully transparent and justified, as it concerns the everyday life and life of all of us. Despite the efforts of the Secretary-General and the Minister to give clarification to the committee, we must admit that we are not convinced. We now go to Part II, which, as a whole, captures the Government’s apparent struggling effort to pass constitutional responsibilities on to voluntary organizations and non-governmental groups. Under the cloak of the relevant regulatory framework it is attempting to create, it covers the removal of its responsibilities and ultimately the assignment of competences to properties, the quasi-public society, by Articles 55 to 73. At the same time, we cannot ask ourselves why we have a draft law which, although it relates to Civil Protection, takes away the self-sufficiency of the Fire Corps, does not provide for any funding, despite the enormous needs for equipment and infrastructure, nor does it ensure that its vacancies are filled up. However, he intends to interconnect it with Europol and NATO. Although, on the one hand, it does not solve practical problems, on the other, it raises other issues within the Firehouse, linking the rating to wage developments and thus causing many personal differences between workers, with the possibility that many servants in the body may stand still in a step, which does not correspond to the years of actual service they have, creating practical servants of different speeds. As a result of transferring responsibilities from the Ministry of Justice to the Protection of Citizens, a derogation is renewed and a maximum of eight months is extended to the employment contracts of detention stores under Article 183 and seven organic posts are transferred from the Justice to the Civil Protection in 184, and to the Ministry of Citizen Protection as a whole the responsibility for the relocation of Korydallos Prisoners. At the same time, in discussing this point, we consider it necessary to clarify the provision of direct awards referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 185, while we consider that a similar clarification is needed as far as compensatory benefits are concerned in the grades where the prisons are relocated, as provided for in 186. We would like to have the same clarification in terms of both Article 187 and Article 187, provided for directly the provision of consultancy services by the Civilian Protection when contracts of an estimated value of more than EUR 30 000 000 are to be concluded. The redefinition of the responsibilities of the Citizens' Counsel, as a national mechanism for investigating arbitrariness in the officials of the Hellenic Police, the Port Authority and the Coast Guard and the Firehouse, as well as of the detention officers, as well as the fact that it will be able to carry out investigations independently of any parallel development of criminal proceedings or proceedings, as provided for in Article 188, is considered to be positive of course. I referred earlier to cases of transferring State obligations. Another such example is the ‘opportunity’ to OTAs A' and B grades to operate supervised sites, which can also operate in the form of mobile units, but no reference to their funding, as is made in Article 189. In conclusion, we believe that this draft law will create a pharanonic dimension and responsibilities General Secretariat for Civil Protection without the necessary safety barriers to prevent and resolve all the overlapping that is, with mathematical accuracy, surely will arise. At the same time, we believe that there should be provision for dealing with problems that may be caused by a sharp snowfall, because we live in a country where the possibility of a sharpest snowfall is certainly greater than a cyberattack, without that means that we should not be shielded and prepared, so that we can deal with both phenomena. Unfortunately, the lack of state funding, as a result of the ten-year crisis and the continued poverty of our country, prevents the strengthening of structures and services necessary for a proper civil protection mechanism. That is why we are once again seeing the privatisation and concession of state structures, services and responsibilities to voluntary organisations and NGOs, with the State being exempted from fundamental obligations on the protection of life, the infrastructure of the country, the natural environment, which are transferred to the private initiative, with the area of civil protection being left to voluntary action. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. In conclusion, I will be speaking for a moment on the Ministerial Amendment, which I shall analyse more in my dentistry. In the approximately six months of the government's life we see something truly unprecedented. The Ministry of Migration Policy was dissolved, its powers in Civil Protection were merged shortly later, with another amendment, after an already adopted bill on asylum, the position of a National Coordinator for Refugee was created, which was taken by the State Secretary for National Defence, to have, a few days ago, the reconstitution of the Ministry and the reorganisation of the responsibilities of the National Coordinator, which comes with the amendment tabled in the current bill. One would say, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you seem to have lost the ball in the refugee sector, an issue that needs to be dealt with immediately. We are dealing with lives of people who have been through a lot to come to our country to find themselves locked in closed centers, stacked up on each other, living in terrible conditions. We also have to do with our fellow citizens who, apart from the austerity and poverty of the memorial policies, also have to deal with state indifference about the problems caused by the overcompensation of refugees, particularly in the islands. Over the past few days we have witnessed many demonstrations and incidents, both from refugees and from fellow citizens, and it is true that the situation cannot remain like this and will not be dealt with by additional police forces and MATs in Lesvos and other islands. It must be addressed directly, holisticly, calling for the assistance of the European Union as well. We all need to understand that these hurting people are not coming to stay here, because they are coming to an end of Europe. We must treat them and help them, but we must also relieve the regions of Greece that have been the most affected. And since we are talking about a civil protection bill, we cannot remind ourselves of a decision by the Ministry of Civil Protection that a closed centre should be set up in Lesvos for the decongestion of Moria, in a forest area, on anti-nuclear areas. After all this, we can only vote against the bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u30	We are now entering the list of fellow Members of Parliament, and I call on Stepma, first, Mr Constantine Conkogeorgo from the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today comes to cover major gaps in the functioning of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and the Fire Corps and, above all, to proceed with the establishment of the National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management. It is common knowledge that the existing civil protection structures, at central and regional level, have shown gaps, ambiguities, overlaps of competences, and have seen conflicts between those responsible and, finally, everyone denying their responsibilities. Memorials from the recent natural disasters are fresh, which have caused us to mourn hundreds of victims, to witness total destruction of property and natural environments. Studies by specialist scientists have demonstrated huge functional weaknesses at the final and operational level, notably in the dissemination and coordination of stakeholders in risk prevention and risk management issues. The operational and administrative upgrading of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection through the establishment of a National Risk Management and Risk Management Mechanism is therefore necessary in order to achieve, on the one hand, the increased operational effectiveness required and, on the other, to emphasise the more effective defence of human life, property, natural wealth and our cultural heritage. In addition, the creation of this mechanism will fully clarify the responsibilities and tasks, eliminate bureaucracy and detachment of responsibilities and minimise the time-consuming decision-making and action-making processes at strategic, operational and regular level. The analysis of risks and threats is established, through the preparation of the National Civil Protection Plan, both for the implementation of emergency plans and for the management of their consequences. Scientific knowledge, the findings of applied research and infrastructure innovation, the applications and tools for information and communication, through the adoption of an administrative model, which is fully in line with technological and scientific developments. A system of civil protection volunteering, with emphasis on education, based on good organisation, functionality and effectiveness, is established to ensure optimal and safe operational action. An NSRP Final Structure shall be established in order to make more efficient use of available national and European resources in civil protection actions. National Risk Database, Threats, Loss and Disasters is created. A Standing Scientific Council on Civil Protection is hereby established. The operation of the European Forest Fires Centre begins. A Operational Risk Prevention and Management Fund and a Crisis Management Study Centre is hereby established. With regard to the Fire Corps, the proposed draft law proceeds to its more rational reorganisation, based on two structural factors, firstly, on strengthening administrative and operational efficiency and secondly on rational, more efficient and more beneficial management of resources and human resources, so that the Fire Corps is the most modern and worthwhile civil protection structure, which provides timely and efficient services to citizens and the country. Therefore, new decentralised regional fire-fighting services are being established with specific local competence, with administrative and operational autonomy. The National School for Crisis Management and Risk Management is set up, including the Fire Academy, with a view to obtaining legal personality, obtaining rights to exploit resources and partnerships, training for fire officers in an internationally upgraded training system. The legal system is reformed to regulate issues relating to hierarchy, service development, evaluation, changes, movements, transfers and secondments to eliminate issues of transparency and controlled reliability. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that no one disagrees in this Chamber that the modern and unforeseen dangers faced by our country, both in the context of climate change with dramatic results of ever-increasing natural disasters and in the frequency of fires, which also require modern ways and means to deal with them. You will allow me to pass on my personal experience from my sixteen-year-old service to self-government and my 12-year-old service as president of the Evrytan prefectural coordination body to deal with crises and risks arising from natural disasters and fires. I was lucky to have competent partners and officials, who knew what to do, in such cases, but also the voluntary offer of many citizens. The most difficult thing, however, was to coordinate and cooperate the services involved, without egos and overlaps, as well as the old emergency disaster response plans, which did not take into account the new data from the state organisation, the new technologies of prevention and repression and the means needed. I firmly believe that the involvement of first and second degree self-government is the cornerstone of organising the new national crisis management and risk management structure, at least at regional level. Subsequently, the state must, as well as institutional supplements, provide financial support to both municipalities and regions in the country, while at the same time increasing the degree of responsibility towards society and citizens. However, I would also like to make two comments on what has been heard in this Chamber. Firstly, by addressing the spokesman for the Civilian Representation, I will say the following. Mrs Kafantaris, you must be aware that you have told us here that once again you have not had to change the institutional framework for the reorganisation of civil protection. You said that since 2008 you have in your drawers an institutional framework, which you have not done, which is about consolidation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u32	In the spring of 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u33	In the spring of 2019 or October? Because I heard something about October.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u34	In the spring of 2019. In October 2019, it was deposited.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u35	In October 2019, he was another government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Contogeor doesn't need help.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u37	In any case, four or five years, what have you done on this matter? That was the first. Secondly, here on every legislative initiative by the government you are presenting us with a legislative initiative as well. We have come to believe that you have a stock of legislative initiatives, which have never existed. In any case, take them out into the public eye to see what these legislative initiatives are, to assess them. Don't just make any criticisms. Don't you see what happened to us? Do we have to be a lesson? Do you not realize that we need to be more responsible for matters relating to the civil protection of our state? Do you not know that many of the things you mentioned, which you say as unconstitutional, apply exceptional measures in exceptional cases? Don't you know that we all have to help out with an effort? I say this from experience, which I served for sixteen years - many colleagues here know - we had the fewest fires in Eurydice and the fewest disasters of natural disasters, because our intervention was immediate. So that is what we all have to admit. As I also heard the Greek Solution. He has a solution for everything. But he doesn't tell us that solution. He has a solution for everything, but he never makes it known to us. To conclude, I invite you all to support this legislative effort unanimously because it concerns the lives and property of all our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, I am sorry, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u39	Mrs. Kafantaris, in your dentistry, you will say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u40	My name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u41	He didn't offend you because he mentioned your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u42	Let us clarify something, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u43	In your dentistry. Every time a name is mentioned, will we stop? Fifty-six are written.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u44	A draft law has been deposited since October 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u45	I'll give you the floor later and you'll say it. The first five minutes are Mr. Kontogiorgos who spoke, Mr. Famelos, who calls for him to come to Step, Mrs. Likoli, Mr. Delis and Mr. Hetas. It's the first five, which has a rotation, I mean. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the need for an innovative civil protection system has matured in our country. That is why there was also a draft law from our government, but also a draft law now, as Opposition. At the same time, there is also significant international experience in this matter. And above all, there is the climate crisis, which obliges us to see this issue in a new dimension. This is because our country now has a law, because the previous colleague, who is probably not well aware of what was happening in the previous parliamentary term, was mentioned. It has law 4414 on adaptation to climate change created by the SYRIZA government. He now has flood risk management plans made by the SYRIZA government. He has a forest fire prevention plan created by the SYRIZA government. And it finally has what was not there for years, an institutional framework for the cooperation of the Fire Corps with the forest services that the SYRIZA government has done. I have had the honour of signing this ministerial decision. However, ladies and gentlemen, all I have said and international experience do not exist in the draft law. And that is the main problem. A criticism is being created and put against the previous government, without seeing that at the moment - I say this to the majority rapporteur - we have a draft law which mortgages civil protection. And because we have a responsibility, moving for years and in the area of self-government, please, ladies and gentlemen, to see it carefully. We are therefore talking about the climate crisis. And a simple question arises: To predict and determine the situation at the National Coordinating Centre, is there a representative of the National Meteorological Service? The answer is no. And someone falls off the clouds. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for us to discuss the climate crisis today and for there to be no representative of the EMI in the National Coordination and for there to be no provision for all the things I have told you about adapting to climate change, about the durability of infrastructures? Finally, although we were waiting for your legislative initiative, we can see that the New Democracy recipe prevailed. What is New Democracy's classic recipe? Limitation of transparency, regularisation of pallets and dark and black funds. This finally has this bill. However, we are talking about civil protection here. We are talking about the security of the country and of the citizens. Is it possible to table a bill, which is disgusting, bureaucratic, irrational, inconsistent, place posterity in the regions, which assume responsibility for civil protection, while at the same time, when the critical moment comes, have no responsibility and have no responsibility for it? Why are you doing this? Settle dates without having the responsibility when the critical moment comes. Of course, in this operational planning, we have an amendment of the competences of ministries, an amendment of competences to self-government. And, Mr Colleagues, rapporteur for the majority, I want to understand that. Have you read the opinion of the CEDEFOP and the EIA which says that self-government responsibilities are being changed and the roles of primary, secondary, are being confused and a salt is being created? If you have read it, please very much, you have to make amendments. To take responsibility for whether the country has a civil protection system. On the other hand, in all this alalum of irresponsible, but - probably we will see some retired people put there - we also have dark funds. We have classified funds. And all of this is because there is a particular issue. We're not just talking about a part of the country's administration. We are talking about the management and protection of our lives, about the responsibility of the country and about the lives of the citizens. And you're doing all this a little bit of a party? Put time on and give them classified funds? Because that is what we see in the bill. In other words, it is not an autonomous coordination centre, which is responsible for all the forces of civil protection. But note the alalum: Firefighting falls under the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, but the Operations Centre of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection is located in the Firefighting Operations Centre. A vicious circle. And note the biggest problem: For important issues, such as an epidemic, a biological accident or marine pollution, it does not have the task of the fire department, because it does not have these elements in its operation. The other civil protection bodies are missing. But are these just the issues that the bill has? I want to highlight something else. I took the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. I would ask the rapporteurs very much to see it. This report identifies a large number of failures, confusion of responsibilities, manoeuvres and unconstitutional issues. So it says the report of the Scientific Agency. In paragraph 7 of Article 33: The only criterion for the placement of heads is experience. This runs counter to the constitutional principles of equality and dignity. Paragraph 8 of Article 33: Responsibilities shall be defined for various matters by decision of the Secretary-General, which raises questions of compatibility with Article 43 of the Constitution, as the authorisation is granted to the Secretary-General to exercise regulatory powers. In Article 53 on confidential funds. You don't even follow the standards of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that says someone should come to the House. Not even that. Well, absolutely dark room to play who? The new secretary-general? Paragraph 5 of Article 33 points out by the Scientific Service that while the Technical Service does not give the Departments responsibility, yet in another article, in Article 42, it amends the responsibilities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of the Interior, because it gives the authority to approve projects without environmental authorisation and without the procedures of public procurement, in breach of European law. Article 42 points out the opposition to environmental legislation. In Article 43 it says that it integrates the National Crisis Management Mechanism, the Scientific Service is responsible for the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. And there is confusion about the EMSDDA. Article 54 raises the question of contracts. It also says in Article 175 that this is where we legislate the cooperation of a Fire Force and Forest Service, which already exists with a ministerial decision. There are many other issues. In order to assess the situation, for example: it is not foreseen. An incredible alalum. There is no provision, therefore, for assessing the situation. That is, the state of preparedness as being preached by themselves, and the head of the first response team should judge the situation as a whole. There is a serious problem, because when an event occurs, it is not established in the area of an incident management system. In other words, there is no common area where all of them are together so that representatives of operators can be consulted. As far as preventive removal is concerned, it remains the same in Article 27. In other words, it entrusts it to a service outside the incident, away from the place, that doesn't know the local incidents. In other words, it creates further confusion and inertia. The coordination of the bodies - look at - is planned to take place at three national level and three at regional level. To make another ten - we have six coordinating bodies - and for citizens to be informed, it provides for five bodies to be active. I think we are now talking about something that, if you like, creates risks for our country. That is why we note all this. There are major issues in both the coordination of emergency functions and the state of preparedness and that there is no strategy and that there is a decision to evacuate distance. And there is a lot of confusion and a duplication of competence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the Directorate-General for Civil Protection has responsibility for coordination in Article 20, Article 17, the Regional Operational Centre, Article 29, the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, Article 36, the National Coordinating Centre for Enterprise. And within all of this, the concept of government is to arrange for some posters who have no responsibility, make them a mess and make the management of civil protection more darker, and we will also have confidential funds to deal with the day by violating the European Union's public procurement rules. So that's dangerous. And if we do not see it today, we will find ourselves in a difficult position, as the Prime Minister did, to say that if he knew what he needed today, he would not make the mistake of abolishing the Ministry of Migration Policy six months ago. And because it is the same Minister's fault, I want us to make a serious decision in this Chamber. Are we going to make the same mistake and endure with decisions by the same people and civil protection, apart from immigration? Secondly, is the government so serious about human lives? Obviously, we are against such a great, serious mistake and about the security issues of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u47	Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are not just discussing another bill. a bill of procedure, a bill of some importance, its own thematic legislative field. Today in Parliament’s plenary we hear the whisper of the hundreds of souls in Matti, the twenty - four in Mandra, the sixty - three in Elijah and so many other wrongdoing fellow humans. In fact, we are all talking about how we will never live through the great dramas, whose images and testimonies haunt our collective memory. It's too small a country to withstand so many hundreds. It is too small for Greece to withstand such a lamentation, which, unfortunately from time to time, is almost repeated endemicly. As soon as old dramas are forgotten, we avoid paradigming and coming back before us. ‘What is it, really?’ We wonder every time we discuss this. An ancient curse that arouses us? A heart relationship for the country that gave birth to drama as a concept in art and perhaps should this also be experientially alive so that it never ceases to exist? Or is it just the usual Greek reorganization? It is again an inherent weakness of the political system to rationalise the bad texts and, on the contrary, it is continually consumed in populism, in the launching of charges and "slash" from anyone who is poor in micro-partyisms, tactics, in trenches of trenches, thieves, and even sketching on bodies and people left behind, assuming that these behaviours are enough and that someone is supposed to be politically doing their duty. Sadness has seen in recent years that limits are not and are going on, unfortunately. The ultimate craving! If the facts weren't so tragic, in the memories, they'd all stay. "Green burns green" was said after the fires in Elias. "The shift happened on my shift" was only heard two years ago. With this in mind, I think of a phrase from a favorite critic of literature and academics at leading university institutions, George Steiner, who died only yesterday and who said that "the words that run out of lies or atrocities cannot bring life back". I don't know if you guys are wondering. However, I, ladies and gentlemen, wonder whether we are worthy of our destiny or will finally have the courage to become a normal country. You are bringing today, Minister, a bill which I at least describe as an ambitious attempt. Of course, as you know, friendlyness is not enough in politics. It's good, but it's not enough. A hundred and fifty overall articles and four parts which only fifty-four first concern civil protection. The bill has some ambiguity in terms of terms, so there are many conceptual confusions in many respects. I do not know if it is a deliberate ambiguity, if you leave the field free to confusion, in order to cover up, difficulty in distinguishing responsibilities and roles and, indeed, at critical times. We all remember, however, what happened in July 2018, but also in other cases. Some have been lost in their 'translations'. Others among them were saying, but they told us, but on cameras they said, but others announced to the world that they would do, but they did, and the results were known. Also, with regard to the time and cost of implementing the provisions of the draft law, we have measured that you need another hundred and twenty-eight other provisions, in addition to the draft law as a whole, in order to implement this draft law. So it's a serious matter. It's not funny. And especially if one thinks we only have four months until we get to the summer. As far as the cost is concerned, are you really going to make this a feat? With 4,500,000 euros you will be able to do all that you say in the bill? And the General Accounting Office of the State confirms? I will not go into any individual provisions, but I shall refer to something that comes from and is also touching on self-government. You have also told the committee that decentralisation is very important and the thirteen new coordinators will play a crucial role. But to coordinate what, Minister, in one hour's difficult time when rapid decisions and responsibility is A and O, when we really don't know who he is to coordinate and who is finally to decide? Is that so much to say or is it a political choice not to say it? This must at least be explained here in plenary. The cord of the malpractice porch, the one who sent us to the memorials, shows he's coming back. Why so many structures if the responsibilities of each one are not clear? Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my current position I would like to present my experience in serving for about ten years, Minister, the area of prevention against drugs and addictions. Bravo on the establishment of supervised areas for the use of drugs and with the TAB partnership. Finally, in the Greek legal system, this very successful international practice, which was proposed by the Change Movement on 6 July 2018. And I saw that you have taken our amendment since July 2018 and put it in the bill. And that is why I really congratulate you. I would, of course, like to say, Minister, that there are other splendid fields of glory in your ministry. I really think that you are the prime minister who can create a new story on the prevention of civil protection. Unfortunately, prevention is a very distant, opportunistic concept in Greece, with some escalating NGOs many times serving this role. Unfortunately, however, we have seen in our practices that we do not follow good practices from other countries. I have been impressed lately because I have been studying with academic interest what has happened in Japan. So I tell you that in Japan - and you will study it, I imagine, because I know that you are reading and interested in this - children learn from the age of six and a half. Seven years of age, children in Japan have learned everything: what torrents mean, what floods, what fire means, who are the spaces for emergencies, where they can create shelters, how they can make food in the countryside, and it peaks until the age of eighteen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Jishubo in Japan means, ladies and gentlemen, a voluntary organization, without funding from governments, not NGOs in our own form, in which citizens are involved, of 75% of households. So that's a success. Things are very simple. We, with the total lack of education we have, with the total lack of prevention programmes and awareness-raising campaigns, cannot even approach these concepts in any way. Education, along with an overall design, is therefore the only solution. Make your Ministry the real prevention of civil protection and prevention everywhere. You dare change everything. Get out of the costumes and the braided shirts. Walk "bad" on your political field, you yourself, to feel, feel your own "grass". Now is the time for important and rugged changes. We are mature and are ready as a country to move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u49	Finish it, Mrs. Liikali.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u50	It is our people who are friendly, have our people souls, have guts, need stimulus, need motivation and, above all, needs relationships of confidence with the state, call on people, share our corporate social responsibility. Only then will we say that we have fulfilled our role, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u51	The floor has been asked by the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, whom I call on the Step. Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. To begin with, I, too, would like to state with the other colleagues of the Greek Solution deeply disappointed, gentlemen of the New Democracy. And I say 'favourly disappointed', because you are the government of the amendments. It is unacceptable to violate basic rules of democracy and come into irrelevant bills or related draft amendments. Please stop this regime very much. You are in a hurry to define the Rules of Procedure of the House every day. And who's raped? I will say to you: April 2017 letter to you, Mr Voutsi - if I am not mistaken - by Mr Mitsotakis: 'The Greek Parliament is not working as it is in a democratic state. Continuing government pathology to submit amendments that are delayed and unnecessarily." In 2017, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are quite right to blame SYRIZA for bringing in amendments. 2020 is exactly what you do, because you both are the same. You are not interested in the Rules of Procedure, not in democracy, nor in the proper functioning of the constitution. That's not what you're interested in. The job to do the dirty or the "clean" and beyond. Mr. Mitsotakis said that in the letter. Disprove me, Mr. Voutsi. Did Mr. Mitsotakis write to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u53	Not one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u54	Not one, three. The current Prime Minister, then the President of the New Democracy, said: "Act that runs counter to the Constitution, without any real discussion and without having been costed by the General Accounting Office of the State". So I say in the Minutes what the Prime Minister of the country, who speaks of a state of perfection, is talking about an organised state, but he has a government operating under panic - if you like - of leg lawmaking. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These aren't serious things. I was expecting a Prime Minister, who was a guardian of the state of service, of the organization, of the structure, to behave differently. For me it is very important that a government observes what it says in election and post-election. When you start like this - for months, of course, it is not today's phenomenon - I do not imagine that I also have the requirement that all of you be consistent with the other serious, national economic issues. I have my doubts too. You are talking about a register of members of non-governmental organisations. Minister, will any of you tell us what the consequences will be if a non-governmental organization does not go to sign up? Are there any consequences? Please tell us, please, very much, because from what I see in the bill - criminal, civil, administrative - there is no penalty. You say write the NGOs in a register and I'm not going. I've got Hassan Ibrahim Memet's NGO and I'm not going, son. What's going to happen to this NGO? Will it close? Will you close it? I'm asking. Will this close or will it be illegally operational? What will the NGOs, managers, workers have? You're not telling us anything specific, that is, you're saying there's the man responsible, the director of the NGO. Does it have any urban, criminal consequences if something's wrong? It will be controlled by the existing legislation for any infringements, budget violations, money, money, and I do not know what else? You're not saying that. So here, Minister, I will tell you why you are one of the favourite ministers - I know you for years - for other reasons of sympathy, and I mean what we used to say at some point when you refused to go somewhere, when you were summoned and the Bilderberg Club was here. You were the only Greek who refused to go and was in your honor. I told you then that you would have a bad political end. I've been confirmed, but you've emerged again. At least now, in your second development, leave a project, Minister, that's not what it is. So that's "cut, sew," no one's making any sense. Predatory centers in the hinterland, you say. Why, Minister, are you giving them camps? Why are you giving them camps, you tell me. Why should we put them in Greek camps? Let's give it to the municipalities. There's been a camp in Mennemenes for decades, the mayor's been yelling there, all people yell at it, doing it theirs, decades. Decades of fighting residents - and the others - to take the camps. Today, they came a few months ago, they will also take camps, ports, new facilities to use all this. The worst of them is the "fashional". Do you know them "fashioned"? Do you know what "married" were? What were the "fashioned"? You don't know. The "fashioned" - with fine sons and little sons - was the money that the Persians gave to extract Greeks and collide with each other. You are therefore giving EUR 50 000 000 to municipalities to take them out with the money so that they can accept illegal immigrants themselves. You guys are nice, "fashioned"! Give me money! You are looking to find "Inhabitants", because you are incapable of making the self-evident plan on uninhabited islands - we say - with infrastructure, people are okay, but uninhabited islands, not social fabric. Take the mayor, who is your man - most are New Democracy unfortunately or happily, unfortunately, for me, thankfully for you, in any case - take money and host them! You know, I don't know what these are, but I'm going to say this because it's very important to see where we're driving. Speaking of illegal immigrants, there are two, three important things going on in the last few days and no one speaks. You know, the nation's ruler of your resignation, Constantine Karamanlis, I remember putting us in the European Union, in the European Economic Community, telling us that he would save us from the Turks. It has been said that if we enter the European Economic Community, we are being rescued by the provocativeness of the Turks. Shortly after, in 2010, we were put in the memorials - so said George Papandreou here - because we were afraid that when we went bankrupt, the Turks would pass by and take walks. Soon after we gave the Skopje the name 'Macedonia', because Turkey should not infiltrate Skopje. Shortly afterward we were told that we should guard the sky of Skopje and Albania, so that the Turks would not take this game away from us. You are now filling with illegal immigrants in Greece, without knowing this illegal immigrant coming from there why he's coming. Because they don't have any papers. It could be a "fifth convoy", it may be agents, no one guarantees me that it is not. We don't know who they are and we've filled Greece with thousands of people - who've been grounded very, poorly-but many don't know what they want from Greece. At the time Turkey is causing you, without any control, are taking everyone here and putting them in mainland Greece into the social fabric. I am afraid of what has happened in Moria - which is a test drive of our potential - that it will be extended elsewhere and I will make an analysis shortly later on on on this subject. Understand, you put the "carcino" - within introductorys, you don't get any misunderstandings - you put the gangrene in the body of Greece. Because we don't know who they are, I repeat, I'm not saying that everyone is like this, to God, but I'm saying we don't know who they are and who they are. When you don't know the other guy, you can't put him next door to your neighbor's house, you can't. You need to know who he is. And you know, because I'm talking about Turkey, I was listening to Mr. Doko. Dokos is the national security advisor of Mr. Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the country, who, with ease, said "let's go to the Aegean." In other words, you ask us, from SYRIZA, from the JRC and the rest of us here in a national consensus, when the National Security Adviser prejudges the decision of the country, saying 'Let's go into co-existence'. If Dokos wants to entertain, give his house to the Turks first, not to Greece. The property of Greek, natural gas and our country's national sovereignty by no Doko is taken into consideration. It's called otherwise and I won't say less, I won't say treason, I'll say nonsense and stupidity. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because that is the case, because if I see Mr Doko and some teachers like Mr Doko over time - I don't say it outrageously, it's the same plant - everyone talks about collapsing. Did we ask? Did the gentlemen ask? Did the Change Movement come in? Were the others asked? How does the Prime Minister's National Security Adviser come out and speak of co-existence? Why? This, however, is the result of the secret meeting of the Prime Minister with ELIAMEP, which Mr. Dendias confirmed last week. So they've co-decided where we're going to drive. Listen to Doku's statement: "If Greece decides that it is of interest, then it could negotiate a collapsing agreement with percentages to be determined according to the agreed maritime borders." What are you talking about? What do you share? Do you share the property of your father and your grandfather? Who's Dokos, guys? You are elected MPs. Who is the Dokos who reckons your will, your sense of reason against your dominating position that you were elected? And the Dokos who wasn't elected anywhere. He wasn't elected anywhere! Do you know what Dokos said? Loss of Kastelorizo's EEZ. Do you know what it means to lose Kastelorizo's EEZ? I will tell you: Loss of common borders with the metropolitan Greece of Cyprus. Do you know what that means? Caratification of national airspace and single defence dogma. This is treason, guys, don't be fooled. They accused the gentlemen here of giving the name 'Macedonia' and today the counsellor of your Prime Minister comes - because as the Prime Minister works, I am now starting and I think he is only a Prime Minister of the New Democracy and not the Greek people - and he says that in the end we will have - I repeat, another national defeat with unforeseen developments. And some were misunderstood because I made a video of the well-known "ORUC REIS", the well-known vessel on which a missile was launched from an aircraft and hit it, immersed it, because it was under Crete. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what the Turks are doing under Crete. They entered our house, raped our child and our wife, and you were watching. That's what the Minister said, 'we're watching', entered with wires of open miles - that means research, research on natural gas, it means research on natural gas, a man who knows the issue of gas well and how the investigations are carried out - and we were monitoring the country's rape. If you are voyages, seeing the country rape its national sovereignty violated and saying that you are watching, we cannot follow your logic. And at some point we must also say 'no' to the Turkish factor which is not provocative. You're wrong again. Turkey claims. And because it is so fluid, you see that in Syria, Turkey has opened forwards with Russia, you see that in Libya it is opening forwards with Russia again. And instead of Dendias making a lightning visit - I say I - in Moscow to see what's going on, let's open a hole in this history of Russia - Turkey, sit down and listen to your American friends who will make fun of you in the end. Because if Russia does not find it with Turkey and the United States approach it, they will send us as a sheep in the massacre, as the Americans did with Imia, as they did with Cyprus. Unfortunately, we do not learn from our mistakes, we are unrepentant as a people, with short memory, forget the basics. And you know, I'm not one of those people who say, "What do you want? War!'. I'll tell you this: You can't lose a fight unless you give it. We did not give any serious battle as a country against Turkish reproach. No serious battle! All the time, we're back! All the time! And that's the meltdown! Now that we're talking, Evros' sites find out that Turks are constantly entering from Evros. Now that we're talking! Look into it a little bit, you too. The "First Theme", your newspaper, wrote it yesterday. Turkish citizens come in - Afghans, Pakistanis - who have another status no longer come in. Right away we give them asylum. In other words, we're taking them inland, even the Turks we don't know if they're agents, collectors, carpoises, we don't know who they are. You're making mistakes. You're making bad mistakes and I'm telling you right away. You're making sad, serious mistakes! Close the border today! Close the border today! The Moria episodes were a procurer. It wasn't random. For the first time after the Occupation, church bells were heard in a village of terrified Greeks! For the first time in decades there have been desperate Greeks on the streets chasing them after those who came to host them, Afghans and Pakistanis. And I'm wondering, which illegal immigrant is asking you to host him when he's chasing the Greek on the streets? Proclaim the northern Aegean in an emergency. It's no different! And, of course, you will tell me how this will be done when Mr rope comes out here in Parliament and speaks of illegal immigrants as young Europeans. This is what your Sponge, the Commissioner, calls them 'new Europeans'. You, Simone, are an old European. You're an old model, another 10 years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u56	Ironically I say it and there is no need for dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I would like to speak immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u58	No, there's no need for dialogue. So, because you wanted to hear your name. I'm not blaming anyone. We don't need dialogue, because we're gonna waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u59	That's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u60	It's not personal. You're wrong. We're old models in here. Me, too. Are you comfortable? I, too, am an old model because the 'new Europeans' are Afghans and Pakistanis. You're Greek. What can we do now? Let's actually go. I have a document from the Greek police in front of me. Minister, this document reads, "Sexual immigrant born on 18-1-2020". This is a document from the Greek police. And it's not wrong. It's one of the post-track papers services, you know these NGOs, etc.. He was born on 18-1-2010 this gentleman here. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Let someone else see it, let's figure out what's going on. It's a document by ELAS for a illegal immigrant with birth date 18-1-2020. He's an adult from Algeria. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is the New Democracy of the seven, eight months that you rule. You can't even do a job on paper. And we go to what the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association said about NGOs. Can I tell you what he said? He said there is a party, that they hire doctors from third countries who provide free medical services within the Greek territory. He said that all the things that are done are to be blamed for Greeks and taxpayers and that he overloads the ESS with his care. That's what the Panhellenic Medical Association says. New Democracy, if I'm not mistaken, it's them. Your people say so. Mayor Mytilini comes out - because Lesvos is an island and Mytilini is a capital, I say for some people who forgot about the border, etc. - and he says - scream of agony! - "The bells had us hit on the island from the Occupation. The conflict, which some wanted, on the island is inevitable and will be great". Listen up here. Your man's talking about a moving collision. Who's instigating? NGOs you don't throw away and you don't close. Who makes them all these incisive to destabilise the island? The ones you don't want and come from Greece. Non-governmental organizations. And I will tell you something: I would never leave the Greek citizens to the mercy of every Afghan and Pakistani. I would give him the opportunity to have a militia and a national court, to have guns in their area - I repeat - and the borders and at the same time - at the same time - look at me by the general, he knows what I say - to be trained, to be equipped, because what is coming, you can't imagine them. It's easy to move all those guys who came here because we don't know who they are. It's not just the woman with the kid in the hug. It's not just her! There's the others, the 25-year-olds who don't know why they're here. That's the worst thing you don't understand. And the Minister knows, because he's been in this chair for years, what I mean. He knows he was the only one who sat in public, because I asked him that there are jihadists among them. The Minister knows. I just - I repeat - you continue the same wrong policy. Cut the benefits. No more benefits! To mistreat as the Greeks do. The Greeks don't have a good time. They're having a bad time too. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Why give them 500 euros and go and get...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u61	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I would like a little more time. It's a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u63	No, because you've committed another kind of violation of the Rules of Procedure. Except for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u64	I apologise for the second violation, although I don't understand who it is. Let's actually go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u65	Substantial is what you will hear as soon as you get off the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u66	In fact, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u67	That's exactly the violation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u68	The infringement has to do with the amendment they have tabled, which you, Mr President, accepted. Is that right? This amendment, but also every amendment that comes, is in breach of the Rules of Procedure of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u69	Good. Please, because there are fifty-five Members to speak, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u70	I'm hanging up here. I like it every time, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Koutsoubas and the rest of the Heads of State five and ten more minutes have spoken. As soon as we spend a minute, directly, Mr. Kaklamani, you do this. Okay. It's okay. I'm just asking the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Avdela, to put it to the President of Parliament. We will either be fair to everyone or it cannot be chosen only with us. Well, because SYRIZA talks about democracy, I will tell them this: You are not entitled to speak of democracy for just one reason: you have violated the basic principle of democracy, which is the referendum. It is disgraceful that you as a party constantly invoke democracy as a party you in SYRIZA. It is shameful to speak of democracy when you violated the start of the referendum. What about the main? Because you are also "friends" - I have here in front of me what they are doing in Lero, I do not need to mention - I will tell you something very simple: Jesus Christ, to which I believe - you are entitled not to believe in many of you here - he said that if you have two tunics, give him one. Unfortunately, Greece is bankrupt if you understand. He doesn't even have a tunic anymore. We're a bankrupt country. We're a country that can't feed her children. How does SYRIZA and the other parties on the left, the fake left, want to feed the other million that's coming here? Tell me how this number can come out. It's not coming out. I will first look at the Greeks, first of all, and if I can - frankly, say this - share the billions of euros around the world. But I can't handle it. I can't give the tunic I don't have. And in the end, if you want to give, do this very simple: Host each of you four, five of you home, and say that you start it and Greece follows it. But not charity with the Greeks' pocket. I'm a philanthropist when I give mine out of my pocket, not force everyone else to pay, but I don't pay anything. There's no charity for a card. And I say it with a lot of sympathy, because I understand your charity, I understand your love and solidarity, but prove what others do, not say it, and we do not. You can't do that. In conclusion, I will say: We have become living in a country, friends and friends, who if you state that you love your homeland, your family, your child, your Orthodoxy, your history, your race, you consider yourself right-wing and fascist, you consider the non-mountain because you love Greece. So you will allow us to love Greece like this, to say "First Greek, first Greece and, if I can, to help as a Christian throughout the world". But do not call us racists and fascists all the other Greeks who disagree with you, because that is fascism. The disagreement is constructive. But the substance is different. You want to prove you're philanthropists? Take your home five, six and I will applaud you all day and say, "Bravo, you are righteous people." [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I repeat: take first you and then come tell us who is right, the far right, the Greek and the non-Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Simopoulos, please. You don't have the floor. He didn't refer to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u73	He implied that I'm doing a show in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Simopoulos, when the president speaks, you will not interrupt. Please sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u75	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u76	I haven't given you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u77	You have to give him to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u78	You won't tell me. It'll be the Rules of Procedure. Well, this is the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure do not only apply to Members, they also apply to the heads of the parties. I read to you Article 66, paragraph 8, which speaks of how to speak. "The speaker cannot get away from the matter under discussion, otherwise the President invites him to return to it. If he does not comply, the President warns him that his word will be removed. Although after this new labelling the speaker does not return to the matter, the President shall take the floor.’ And since you are aware that I have done this three times with fellow party Members who are not in this House at the moment thankfully, I, Mr Butsi, my dearest, will bring this matter to the next Conference of Presidents and I will ask for a decision to be made to apply it to everyone. The Rules of Procedure cannot apply to the Member and do not apply to the Presidents of our parties. There's no exception to Article 66. It does not say, 'it does not apply to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups', it does not say 'it does not apply to the Parliamentary Representatives'. It says in total. And this - I am not talking now about Mr Velopoulos - is done by several Presidents of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u80	It's not about what I told you right now. I'll make it clear. I'm from old in this House, Mr. Velopole, and I'm talking about the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u81	But I would like the floor for half a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u82	There are no misunderstandings at the moment. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor for a minute, so you don't have any complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would be the last person to say that you are wrong if it were true to all the Presidents. I've been saying it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u84	I was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u85	I ask you, if that happens, to happen for all. And with time, it must be for everyone. I've noticed the phenomenon on several occasions. And I want all the party leaders to talk, and five and ten minutes more, but it's just happened, once we're two minutes expensive to cut us off. And you're doing well. But that's true for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u86	Good. I think I was clear. Did you hear me exclude anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u87	I'd be the last person to say you'd be wrong or that's not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u88	Good. I'm recording it. Very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Simopoulos, why are you asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u91	He reminded me, Mr President, that I'm having a show in the House. Who? Mr. Velopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u92	He didn't mean anything. Your name wasn't mentioned either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u93	My name has been mentioned three times, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u94	Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u95	But three times, I tell you, Mr President. Ask my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u96	All right, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u97	I am used to six months of parliamentarians not having a show, not trying to hear my name without any substance. And there's a party leader who's a career by showing me that I'm trying to hear my name in the House. Mr. Velopoulou, I don't do that. I know exactly what I'm doing. I have a full sense of responsibility for being in this seat. I want you, by making self-criticism, to consider whether you are conscious of the weight you carry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u98	You are addressing me under the Rules of Procedure, not Mr Velopoulos. Okay. The misunderstanding has been resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u100	Mr Vellopoulou, they have asked to speak fifty-six colleagues, we have lost ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u101	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u102	Okay, I understand. But I couldn't give him the floor. In any case, you can blame Mr Simopoulos for other things, not for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u103	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u104	Please, we're done. Mr. Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be inside. The bill misguids all the expectations that New Democracy made over the last time to create an effective mechanism to prevent and limit major disasters in our country, to protect the lives and property of our fellow people, infrastructure and the natural environment. Disclosure is that the provisions of the bill do not make the necessary funding from the state budget in order to make the first studies necessary to implement all the necessary projects and appropriate infrastructures for adequate anti-nuclear, anti-Semitism, anti-military protection, as well as safe escape routes so that citizens can safely evacuate from emergency situations. Disclosure is to condemn civil protection services to the role of the poor relative of the state, and so the Fire Corps, the Forest Service, the competent authorities of the municipalities and regions are to operate with serious shortages of staff, facilities, equipment and infrastructure, since state funding will move up - down to the same reduced appropriations, with huge cuts in the last eleven years and, of course, continue with the medium-term programme. But without the necessary funding from the state, there cannot be sufficient civil protection. It is the basis of civil protection to finance it. With regard to the funding referred to in the draft law that there will be from the European Union's multi-advertised programmes, it has been clear in all previous years how little has supported disaster prevention, environmental development or fire protection, earthquakes, floods and natural disasters. Prevention of peoples is, you see, no cost for the European Union, because it only cares about the economic return on the projects it is going to finance. For these reasons, even advanced states in the European Union, but also throughout the world, cannot avoid major disasters and victims. Let us see a typical example of European Union policy in relation to just one side of civil protection, the protection of the people from floods. In the current Community directive on floods, therefore, the dangerous concept of cost-benefit is openly formulated, which must be taken into account in the design of flooding projects. It is clearly stated in this directive that Member States should base their assessments, maps and plans on appropriate best practices and best available technologies that - you hear - do not entail excessive costs in the field of flood risk management. That is what the European Union directive says. The conclusion, of course, from this directive comes on its own. The reason why in our country, and more generally in the European Union, there is no structured modern anti-military armour planning is because this type of infrastructure has no tolls, they cannot profit directly from business groups, and that is why they are not promoted. But that is exactly the logic that leads to destructive Mandras type floods, leaving twenty-four dead behind. Of course, a cynic monument is what the official FLOD CBA, which is funded by the European Union at the request of the European Union Civil Protection Directorate-General, says in a study. So here is what this study which finances and of course expresses the European Union: they are, it says, economically more cost effective to protect those with the greatest assets - that is, wealthy families or precious factories - from protecting those who are poor and poor with poor assets. So open, raw! And it complements: This may, of course, lead to decisions that do not seem fair, but justice is not part of the cost-benefit analysis. That's it! And when lives are lost because of this criminal perception, or property being destroyed by working people, small farmers, small U.S. farmers, small farmers, there is the second suffering for them, the suffering of the damages, which never - ever - ever! - they do not correspond to the actual size of the disaster. The so-called European Union Solidarity Fund, which, of course, has been set up with money from the heavy taxation of workers in Europe, is often activated, due to the unreasonable damage caused by natural disasters. In order to activate this fund, there need to be registered disasters of 1.5% of the region's GDP to which the affected area belongs. That is why those affected by the fires in Kythera, Evia, Laconia, Thassos, Chios, the floods in Kalamata, Trikala and even in Mandra did not get a single euro from this fund. At the same time, in 2018, through the European Investment Bank, the European Union granted energy groups, waste management groups, car manufacturers the sum of EUR 16 billion to go ahead, he says, in response to climate change, which, of course, is responsible for the extreme weather phenomena causing fires and floods! So that we do not have - and there is no doubt about who the European Union is working for! As for the freedoms of the European Union that are so advertised, the free to drown in a strong rain, the free to choose the death of drugs. Governments are also making sure that this is done in supervised areas. And here all parties are voting for it, except for the JRC and a few - but a few - courageous cases. Some, in fact, like Mr Varoufakis' party, if I listened well, he overheards and even calls for mobile units of supervised spaces. But let's see what the international experience says. In the European Union there are seventy-eight shooting rooms, known as spaces to pierce. Here the bill calls them surveillance sites. The forty-five are located in the Netherlands where they operate alongside the heroin programmes for users, with the responsibility of state, municipalities and other bodies, such as the Church, NGOs - again the NGOs! - or the drug party. Yes, there is such a party in the Netherlands. There is nowhere to suggest that, as a result of the operation of these supervised sites, there is a decrease in use or reduction in deaths of all heroin. On the contrary, there is consistent record of the increase in heroin use and there is no tendency to incorporate users into a treatment programme. All of you are overtaken, because in the end, your goal is to disintegrate drug addictions, which objectively shapes the ground in the spread of the narcocult. Retire Article 189 immediately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u106	We will close the five of the alternating colleagues with Mr Konstantinos Hetas from the Greek Solution and then take the floor for seven minutes in order to develop his amendment, Minister Mitarakis. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not hiding from you that I'd like to hear Minister Mitarakis first, but that's okay. We'll be here anyway by night, we won't be lost, Mr. Metarakis. I would like to listen very carefully to you today, but I would also like you to listen to the Members here. Ladies and gentlemen, 24, 102 and 7. Whatever we say in here, these three figures, and above all their macabre sum, are proof of the failure of our National Civil Protection System. It is a total of thirty three dead from the floods in Mandra, the murderous fire, the hydrotreated in Halkidiki, and it goes by saying. And these in the last few months, don't go much further back. It's a train proof that we haven't learned. And that we have not learned our lesson is also this bill, a draft law in which, instead of really giving your best self, and forcing all Members of Parliament, all members of the opposition to agree and vote on it, you have chosen once again to proceed to your own party purposes. It is incomprehensible that every year we count dead you want to create your own party army even today. Because that's what you're making. It is obvious that your tears for Mandra, for Eye and for Halkidiki were crocodile. If it were not, you would not have built this huge, gigantic and inefficient civil protection mechanism, red tape to the absolute extent. Mr. Ministers, you should know that you've mixed it up. You told us that with the ultimate state position the perfect ones would have. You go to the adorables. Others are the perfect ones. Don't mess this up because that's how you're messing with things. For some reason you worship and have a tendency to send seriously, to send to the first war - because what we are discussing today is a huge issue - those who are not capable of doing so. One hundred and fifty articles have the bill - and Antonis Mylonakis said so - on two hundred forty - two pages, that is, each article and one page. How you got everything in there, I can't understand. More than a hundred articles are about the fire brigade. And I'm gonna run to say this. Mr. Ministers, you have been sent a letter from the Lt-Gen in retired Mrs. Andrian Gurbatsis. Who's Mr. Gurbatsis? He is the one when he said and conquered SYRIZA for the way he faced the case in Matti was good for New Democracy, because then he beat SYRIZA, and now you ignore him. So there is a letter from Mr Gurbatsi saying that your bill - to say so - is a hole in the water. And you ignore him for example. The whole letter from the former chief of the Fire Corps I present it in the Minutes, but I challenge colleagues to take a look at it. We do not submit to the Minutes simply to testify. So it's the letter from Lieutenant General Gurbatsi, who says today's bill is a hole in the water. He's the same person who beat SYRIZA for how he handled the eye. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And now we are going to two issues which I too could not comment on, the volunteers and the non-governmental organisations. So long our tongue has been hairy to call you about non-governmental organisations. And today - is Mr Chrysochoidis not here now, I would ask very much his colleagues to convey my question - where is the famous Chrysochoidis ultimatum - now I remember the titles - to non-governmental organisations within a reasonable period of time to declare their presence? Nothing, it didn't sweat anyone's ear. So because the non-governmental organisations are helping you so much - because that is what you are saying today in the bill - that non-governmental organisations are helping you with illegal immigrants - in your bill you are even providing for the possibility of cooperation by NGOs! Jesus! We're saying we're going to ban illegal things, and you're officially putting them in the game! Instead of abolishing them and closing them, this 'cancer', you also give them rights and make them your direct partners, to fight, in cooperation with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. And on one more question, I would like you to answer something last for the Greek rescuers. How do we distinguish rescuers if they are French, if they are Greek, if they are Turkish, if they are Italian? Because I am learning - and it says in - that the Greek flag is no longer in their uniform. Is that true, yes or no? Can you answer that question, too, please? And I'm going to the amendment. Mr. Metarakis, I will listen with great attention. So let us go to the amendment on non-governmental organisations. You have suddenly learned that non-governmental organisations are motivating illegal immigrants. Be quiet. Mr. Metarakis, with all due respect, now did you realize that non-governmental organisations are instigating illegal immigrants, now you understand, seven months later? We've made it a flag, we've been yelling here since the first day. Well, I will not go into the process to remind us of what you were telling us in July, in August, in September when we said to you: close the NGOs, close the borders, cut the allowances, transfer them to uninhabited islands with organised structures. What we heard in here isn't said! Seven months of apprentice magicians, Mr. Mitaraki, are changing every week plans and you have led the country to the rocks. Yesterday - President Velopoulos told you a moment ago - the bells, Mr Mitaraki, were ringing in Mytilini. The bells were ringing in the year 2020. You can't do that. The situation is out of control. We have episodes. Do you realize what you've created? Mr Stefani, you have made him a Minister for the accordion. Once you've given him responsibility one, you pick it up once you pick it up, you've changed four ministries to him. Either you're in panic or you don't know what you're doing. Which Ministry does Mr. Stefanis belong to now? Mr Chrysochoidis is of course relieved because he has left the illegal immigration, which you have put into the Ministry of Civil Protection. She's relieved now. And with regard to the Chrysochoid ultimatum, will you also make a record of NGOs? Which NGOs will have a record, Mr. Metarakis? I want you to tell us. Let me tell you this and I shall end, Mr President. Listen to it, and you listen carefully. Mr Metarakis, it is your inability or you do not want to solve the problem with illegal immigrants. One of them is happening. Both are as dangerous. So listen, Mr President, and I call for your tolerance - this. It is today's information, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. Listen, Mr. Mitarakis, today mediator's complaint from Thessaloniki in statements at the radio station "FOCUS FM": "For every ad we get online for apartment rent anywhere in Thessaloniki we receive 15 phones from non-governmental organisations. If, for example, we ask for EUR 300 a month's rent," he says in his statements on radio today, "the NGOs offer us EUR 500 or 600 for a contract year to make the houses." Do you understand what you're doing? Black snake that ate us! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You should also listen to the audio document, all of you. Today these statements have been made, Mr Mitarakis. I will listen with care then. And I'm closing up with this. Or you really can't deal with this - and don't tell me about another project now, because you're the eighth or ninth plan, Mr. Mitarakis, from the beginning - or you don't want to. In both cases you're dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u108	And until the Minister, Mr. Mitarakis, as I said before, comes to Stepma, I would remind you that as today 1843 the old man of Moria, Theodoros Kolokotronis, died. His memory is eternity! [[Applause]] Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment which is being debated today deals with urgent matters from the re-established Ministry of Migration and Asylum. It will immediately follow a bill to further speed up the asylum procedure and the returns of those who are not entitled to international protection, which is key to the decongestion of the islands. Today five Aegean islands are raising the burden of Europe, of the migratory crisis. We stress the need to further strengthen border guarding, to set up control centres instead of open structures currently operating within urban tissues and to control action by NGOs. Yesterday we experienced an unacceptable situation in Mytilini, a situation which we will face with plan and determination. I stress that the state's primary obligation is the security of its citizens. Consequently, these unpleasant events confirm the need to speed up the asylum procedure, returns to those who are not entitled to asylum and the operation of closed control centres. It is also obvious that infringements are inconsistent with asylum applications, in accordance with the asylum procedure. We immediately strengthened security measures and, as I said yesterday, we are investigating the possibility of inciting such reactions. Today's amendment is to strengthen the necessary legislative framework. The first article defines the distinct responsibilities of the National Coordinator who is fully responsible for the organisation, management and coordination and control of the Single Border Surveillance Body. Improving logistical infrastructure, strengthening human resources and the optimal cooperation between the Armed Forces and the Security Corps clearly sends out the message that the country has borders and is effectively defending them against past ideas. With Article 2, we establish the register of members of non-governmental organisations and thus tighten up the control framework. This is a new register of natural persons of NGOs, members, officials and associates working on Greek territory. With this process we offer the public administration and the competent authorities the institutional knowledge necessary for the functioning of the Greek and foreign NGOs, which will no longer be impersonal. I have to tell you that there are, of course, organisations which have worked exemplarily, which have contributed to creating sustainable conditions in this migratory crisis. However, there are others that we do not know in depth about their action and should be certified and approved, so that they continue to have access to the provision of services. The new provision allows us to delete from the register organisations and persons who do not fulfil the conditions for cooperation. We shall also proceed immediately to the placement of a special secretary at the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum in order to effectively supervise the new measure. Article 3 provides for the assent of the Minister for Migration and Asylum for the transfer and secondment of officials of the Ministry, a provision necessary for the better management of human resources, and the management flexibility needed to respond effectively to the ongoing emerging challenges. Article 4 provides for the accelerated authorisation of new pre-regulatory centres necessary for the return policy of those who are not entitled to international protection. Article 5 gives the National Solidarity Centre the flexibility needed to organise actions related to the protection and supervision of unaccompanied minors. Article 6 provides for the financial relief by means of a special grant to the municipalities that raise the burden of hosting refugees and migrants. To this end, we are financing EUR 25 000 000 to cover the cost of the impact of local services and infrastructure. The state comes and pays municipal fees for those who live on the border of the municipalities. We set the level of monthly compensation per person and predict further increases in cases of overconcentration, which will unfortunately also change, but is currently happening in the Aegean islands. And we immediately grant for 2019 retrospectively EUR 150 for each resident in 2019 to hosting units and we will do that in February. We are promoting arrangements that build a sound platform of confidence between the central government and local government, which are called upon in everyday life to tackle the first line of this great crisis. It is a move of respect, it is a responsibility of the state to the municipalities, and I am sure it will act as a precursor of consensus for the deep areas that are needed. With Articles 7 and 8 we are directly launching within a month the creation of a solidarity fund with a budget also of EUR 25 000 000, with the aim of financing actions to further support local communities charged with cohabiting with host units within their administrative limits. Ladies and gentlemen, our islands have lifted a disproportionate weight for five years and the current situation cannot continue. We're changing politics. Our first priority is the reduction of border guarding flows, the acceleration of asylum, the creation of closed structures, the return of those who are not entitled to international protection. Our second priority is to support local societies that raise the burden of the crisis. We are working on the night with a plan and determination. We'll succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u110	The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Institution, operation and operation of airports on water surfaces, transport arrangements and other provisions'. Well, now I'm going to propose to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u112	I'm gonna go start talking and raise your hands. I know what you want to tell me and the proposal for that is. Although it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but because this is a very important amendment, I would say'mini' bill, I will ask either the Parliamentary Representative or the rapporteur - each party will decide one to speak - to take the floor for five minutes and Mr Metatakis will stay until the end of the day to listen to you, give the answers and close the issue of 'amendment' at the moment. It does not mean that speakers will not have the right to be present. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u113	We're starting backwards. Mr Gregriadis, would you like the amendment to either place you or ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u114	Not for the moment, Mr President. I'll do it in my word, if I have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u115	Good. Mr. Mylonakis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister this. Minister, for this money, the EUR 25 000 000 - because of the EUR 25 000 000 will go to the municipalities, and the other will be the fund - I ask what money you are going to give the municipality and why you are going to give this to them. Why not increase municipal fees? For the lighting? What's your purpose? Or give the mayors up to their own municipality, in the social fabric, because citizens are shouting? Don't you understand that your plan isn't going to pass? It's not going to go through your plan again. You want in twenty places in Greece to disperse illegal immigrants. Do you understand what you're doing? What did the new Austrian Interior Minister even tell you the other day? "The crime to be transferred from the islands to mainland Greece". Don't make any more centers on the islands. Take them and put them with infrastructure which can be made on two or three uninhabited islands. And desalinized water can be powered for three to six months. After all, the government keeps shouting is that in three to six months it will be over and everyone will know whether they are entitled to asylum and stay in the country or leave. So, within three to six months, people will sit there, they won't come and they won't come. You see what's going on in Chios. Last night in Moria, she was burned at home. They'll take out the guns, we'll have bloodshed, and you morals will be you. What don't you understand? This thing won't get together in a while. We will not vote for the amendment. Of course we are opposed to this amendment. This is pure 'grain' to the mayors so that they don't scream, so that they don't say 'no'. But people, the public, have a different view and you'll see it in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u117	Mr Syntagakis, do you want the floor for the amendment for five minutes if you want to ask or place?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u118	No, Mr President, we will be placed in our dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u119	Good. Thank you very much. Now let's go to the Change Movement. Mr. Castanides is here. Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, thank you. I did not ask for the floor before, but to clarify something. During the parliamentary debate, the Rules of Procedure do not prohibit intervention very briefly by the parliamentary representatives in order to facilitate the procedure or to clarify substantive matters. Minister, I have listened well before you - I would like you to clarify this - to say that you will be setting up a Special Secretary for the sole purpose of controlling the register of non-governmental organisations? If you confirm, I wonder if you're inadequate with any managers to check the register.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr Castagnides, and for the brief. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Technical issues are important. But I think the important thing here is to highlight the political dimension of the issue, and my assessment is that the presence of the Minister, who has just proposed the amendment - another amendment on immigration - is a public admission to the mistakes, but also to the final ball that the government has created in this area, one of the most critical fields, which, in fact, has largely been the spearhead of the opposition criticism of the New Democracy during the period prior to the elections in July 2019 and, indeed, in a way that led to the creation of reactions, the creation of behaviours of extremes, the creation and adoption of practices of extremes and the prevalence of an ideological climate in Greek society, the results of which the New Democracy is now called upon to manage. As we have said many times over the past period, you have been soaking winds and today you are reaping storms. Minister, I am very impressed by the fact that you have come to see almost journalisticly that everything that happened yesterday is still happening in Lesvos, because I am informed by the local MP, Mr Burnos, that there has been a sit-in of refugees about the conditions in which they live, which has been broken up by force by the police. And it would be good if Mr Chrysochoidis were here to be able to answer the reasons why this form of management was chosen and to explain to the Greek Parliament. But I will tell you this: you are not journalists. You're not here to make findings. Since 7 July you have changed ten administrative conditions for managing the refugee issue. But the crucial thing is not - I say again - the technical thing, but it is the political issue. You have chosen to implement a biopollution policy by doing this. You thought that if you turn the detention conditions, the living conditions of the people on the Greek islands in conditions of real impoverishment, this would limit the flows, which would also be the central and strategic way in which to solve the refugee crisis and manage the issue more easily. Where'd that end up? You took Moria with five thousand seven hundred sixty-sixty-eight refugees and immigrants, and today that we are talking about this policy, together with the fact that you stopped the policy of decongestion of the islands by transporting vulnerable to the inland because of your far-right obsessions, has led to a situation of Moria today having twenty thousand people who are not at the limit but have exceeded the limits of impoverishment. So don't come here to make any findings. The problem is that you, your obsessed, your management failure and, above all, the extreme right-wing logic with which you still manage the issue. And you're coming to make announcements that you're going to put - he says - floating dams. One does not know what to do exactly: laugh at your nonsense or sadness and cry with your extreme perception of the conditions of refugee management? We therefore make you, Minister, responsible for everything that is going on in the gallery, for everything that is happening in Lesvos, for the fact that both refugees and immigrants and the inhabitants of Lesvos are currently in a situation which can trigger extreme behaviour and lead to extreme situations. You are a moral engineer of these situations, you, your government and Mr. Mitsotakis. You have a responsibility for the tragic situation that you have created and I am absolutely convinced that this type of intervention, which you are trying to do after passing the responsibilities of Mr Chrysochoidis and abolishing the Ministry of Migration Policy, the creation of the Special Coordinator, Mr Stefani, then the amendment by which Mr Stefanis became a National Coordinator with special responsibilities, then the definition of those responsible for the unaccompanied refugees, then the abolition of those responsible and then the abolition of the National Coordinator and then the reconstructing the Ministry of Migration Policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Janakopoulou, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u124	...they show, they illustrate in the clearest and most straightforward way that literally you have no idea how to deal with a social, political and ideological problem that you have created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of the House of 30 students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Egypt (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga, has the floor now. I shall then give the floor to the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. Then the Minister will have the floor for five minutes and close this part, as we unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u126	Could I have the floor, Mr President, for a short speech too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u127	We agreed to speak one of each party. You, Mr. Kotroya, are free to say whatever you want. Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. It goes very sincerely that SYRIZA and his Parliamentary spokesman for inappropriateness should be blamed and that we have been following as simple observers what is happening on our islands in relation to immigration. Who? SYRIZA, who has for so many years been applying open borders, invitations and coercion policy in this regard. And this result you described just before, Mr. Janakopoulos, is the result of your foreign policy on immigration. Your weakness, unfortunately, is to be managed today. And you, instead of assisting in this, are criticizing us, why? Because a problem that is evolving every day has a dynamic one, we are trying to deal with it. So, what do we do? We're applying the law. It is, of course, a great difference between what you and I have not done and what you have had to do. Yesterday there were indeed incidents on our islands and on Moria, Mr President. However, the reason why the incidents were created is also important. What was the obvious demand of the protest? Being treated differently, i.e. a different legal regime, complained of the different legal status of those who came from 1-1-2020 compared to those who had come in the previous period. This protest also coincides with the tabling of the amendment and there are doubts and questions as to how or who instigate these kinds of protests. Of course, here instead of you, Mr. Janakopoulou, say that the police...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Buga, please. Mr. Janakopoulos did not speak as a person. He spoke as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u130	And I am addressing Mr. Janakopoulos as a parliamentary...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u131	You are addressing SYRIZA through the President. I don't want again by name...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Janakopoulos, of course, and I'm not addressing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u133	No offense, but for tactics reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u134	I would like to clarify that, Mr President. You are very well aware of this for reasons of order. I would point out, therefore, that I am addressing the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative and through him, to the SYRIZA Party. According to Mr. Janakopoulos, what should the police do? Watching a protest that dismantled the order on the island? Shouldn't he be dealing with her? What means does the police face a protest against the social system and, in fact, with threats to public utility facilities on the island? These before you criticise, you should consider them and justify them. I come now, Mr President, to the amendment and to mention a point in Mr Velopoulos' speech, where he made a point of demolition of the conscience of the mayors. But it is insulting to hear about the mayors, who are ministering to local government, that the government has enough to enable them to cope with an extraordinary need that will result from the creation of pre-experimental centres, so much the money that gives them to cover these exceptional needs is money to extract their consciences. But where are these, ladies and gentlemen, and to whom are you addressing what you say? Instead of all showing coolness, rather than confronting a national problem, a problem which arises with the increasing flows and the issues that have to do with the management of the issue by the neighbouring country, we are critical of the self-evident, which is why we want to dismantle the islands. But does anyone like the situation in which the islands are today? These people today have created inhumane conditions, not that conditions were better over your days in Moria. Today, however, due to the increase in the problem, the conditions are not good, as they were not good before July. But that is a solution, and that is what the government is doing. He's trying to give solutions, dismantling the islands and literally applying the law that we passed a few months ago at the National Representation. It is a law which quickly, through rapid procedures, distinguishes those who really have the conditions for granting asylum from those who have not and are already returning. A month later, some of the same refunds had been made in the past year. So you realise that it is our intention to implement the law, during the implementation of the law, to be able to alleviate the islands, to create appropriate conditions for the hospitality of these people in a human environment and to assist local government with the problems that will be faced by the arrival in the inland areas of these people. And one final reason, Mr President, for non-governmental organisations. In our country, there are hundreds of such organisations. So far this landscape has been an anarchist. Now it comes into order and, of course, when a non-governmental organisation does not seek its entry into the register which it is recommended, it goes without saying that the consequences are not recognised and that it is not recognised because of non-recognition. What problem, then, is created in the National Representation and we raise tons, creating conditions of turmoil and fear in the Greek population? I call, ladies and gentlemen, on us to look calm and to deal with a problem which, unfortunately, will remain. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u135	The President, Mr. Voutsis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in recent years, outside the rhetoric of this Chamber, the term 'lathromatic immigrants' had been set and shared. Perhaps the younger Members of the New Democracy - I mean the younger people you are here - do not know that, because of the presence of the Golden Dawn, this terminology was stopped by the Bureau. Of course, now there is a development that has entered the official rhetoric and part of the ruling party. That's what I'm pointing out. If one were to listen to the objection to what Mr Janakopoulos said earlier, they would think that our Parliamentary spokesman raised a number of issues forcefully and unequivocally. In fact, it has also been heard about ideology again by the Minister. No falseer, unfortunately! This is not an ideological controversy. Perhaps it has not been fully understood, but, of course, it has such evidence. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, there were twenty - two employees in Moria, when there were five thousand guests there in July. Twenty-two are now, which is four times the population and while it was well known that there were too many specialities missing, which are absolutely necessary, by doctors, interpreters and others, to keep such a large hospitality centre. Their contracts are over, not renewed. In other words, what Mr Janakopoulos said is that this is an absolutely inhumane strategy of deterrence - through the message that would be sent out so that others would not come in, that is to say, go literally into horrendous conditions - and that is absolutely true and the evidence on them is well known, made public all this time. I can tell you that there was an incitement yesterday. There was an incitement from this impoverished state of life and from the enormous risk that this intransigent large population has within an island for these same people. This instigated them and - beating wood - such a kind of incitement to the political system itself, apparently, a little bit of fuelling it. There is the 'ESTIA' programme, there is 'Philoxenia', there are the other programmes that he has not named - I do not know why they are not called in the amendment - the Minister. They are approved by all international organisations and at European Union level. The government had made commitments to Mr. Granty, the UN High Commissioner. We did a detailed hearing here by Mr Granty in the Committee on Foreign and Defence Policy on these issues and it is clear that there are commitments. This symphony leaf - let me say - on closed centres, which will not be open, etc. - was clearly stated that the Prime Minister himself - and I say it now, because you did not say it before, Mr Mitaraki - committed to Mr Grady that the concept of a controlled person will be that lists will be held, that they know who they are inside, are not in prison, but they will not be in prison. It will not be forbidden to circulate, as all international treaties in which we are committed as a country. So, then, the philology of closed centers, if you mean you're preparing prisons, it's on the air. Assistance for the 'PHILOXENIA' and for the 'PHILOXENIA' must be given, and we have said that local societies - because there must be dialogue with the local communities in order to implement these programmes - there must be maximum aid. Let me tell you that you are in contact and confronted at the moment with the 'fines' - put it into what you are importing - which you have raised, as well as on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement and on the refugee - immigration issue. I've been to too many counties in the district. You have nourished monsters. And they are not prepared because of the climate that has been created - you see it now - in camps or in camps, in many places, apart from the hotels, which are possible to have human structures - that is to say 1% of all continental walls, not unequally - to have this hospitality. So instead of letting these perceptions walk into our country, it would be a good thing that the Prime Minister here also said that it is a geopolitical position for the country to recognise it. It's a matter that comes from the future. He didn't come to the base of a policy. There is as a matter and there will also be for our country, which is an entry gate, such as, Mr Mitaraki, we have come to have thirty-three million tourists who "evaluate" - put it back in introductory terms - the fact that there has been the crisis in the Eastern Mediterranean, in Turkey, in Egypt and elsewhere and that our country has arrived from 14 million tourists - so we entered the crisis, in 2009, with fourteen million - today to thirty-three million. There are good and bad ones, the problems that need to be solved, and there is one approach that should be at its centre of decision at European Union level. You understand that the Dublin Regulation has still not changed, that is, it has not been abolished, because this is what this is about - to breathe the country - because there is no agreement - the declaration by the European Union and Turkey to go ahead, you are acquitted by the countries of Visegrad and not just, who do not take responsibility for the dividend, for all these flows that will take place in the European Union, and you are also acquitted by Turkey, by its leadership to the detriment of these people and, of course, by our country. All this for years has emerged as an internal political, intra-party issue, within the country, on the basis of SYRIZA's policy. Now you are dealing with it, in theory, in its true dimension, but the plans and amendments you bring us, unreasonable or confessed, lead to the intensification and further exacerbation of this situation. We're so sorry. On the other hand, we are next to you in terms of both funds and of persuasion in societies throughout the continent, so that the islands can be discharged immediately and that there are human hospitality centres, because this is a matter that comes from the future. We'll tell you no matter how many years it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of sixteen students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 3rd Gymnasium of Argyroupoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Metarakis, you have five minutes, with tolerance, because you have to answer many things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. I thank my fellow Members for their position on the amendment by the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. Let me reply in the order in which the statements were made. On the question of the financing of the municipalities, as we said in the amendment, we give EUR 25 million as compensation for the costs incurred by the municipalities, due to the presence in 2019 of refugee facilities within the limits of the municipalities. This comes to cover the costs that have been incurred. We also give an additional 25 million to the Solidarity Fund to support projects required for the impact they have on local communities. Under no circumstances - and I have said so clearly to all the municipal councils of the islands I have gone - it is not part of a conciliation. We say that regardless of the plan, the more general one. It is a state's obligation, as the municipalities take it, and it is not in the context of a transaction, as you wanted to imply with the municipalities, which would be unauthorized, and it is something that affects islands as well. No one accepts the concept of payment in return for structures, but there is the meaning of the state's obligation to cover the costs incurred by the municipalities as a result of the partnership of these flows. Mr Kastanides, the answer to what you have asked is yes, there will be a special secretary who will have the general responsibility for the NGOs as a principal. Part of this will be the operation of the registry. He's been suggesting that a manager do this for years. We have not considered that so far there has been the effectiveness that had to be achieved and that is why there is a need to strengthen the administrative mechanism. I don't see anything stubborn about this. Mr Janakopoulos, the government's policy on immigration has been the same since the beginning. It is the guarding of borders, it is the strengthening and speeding up of the asylum procedure, the return of those who are not entitled to international protection, it is the operation of centres, it is the internationalisation of the problem in the European Union, because it is an issue that concerns us all, and the new Treaty on European Union must respond more decisively to the issue of European solidarity towards the first-line states, such as our country. I didn't speak as a journalist, I'm not a journalist. If I was a journalist, I would tell you that by 2014 Greece was not the main channel of refugee flows in Europe. Since 2015, our country has been the main route. If I were a journalist, I would remind you that you are founders of Moria. All these centres were founded on your day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u139	Samaras was founded, you're wrong!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u140	Please, calm down! The Minister heard the exhaust without opening his mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u141	If I were a journalist, I would remind you that the problem of island congestion arises from the joint communication from the European Union - Turkey, which was made on your day, in 2016, an agreement that has too much positive. That's what I'm counting on. The European Union came, when you had completely lost control of the flows, in 2015 and 2016, and the European Union came with the agreement with Turkey to decisively limit the flows. See the statistics for the first quarter of 2016, see the statistics for the first month after the agreement. In 2015, for example, in Chios over your days, twenty thousand refugees and immigrants entered, in 2019 eight thousand, to understand the difference. However, the European Union-Turkey Agreement, as you have interpreted it in writing, is entangled in the islands of those awaiting asylum. Aren't you going to tell me, during SYRIZA days, there's been any misbehaviour? They're done. Because it was your strategic choice for them to stay in Greece, it was your strategic choice that those who came from the islands, are entitled to or are not entitled to international protection, that our country does not have the opportunity to return them back to Turkey. For us the returns of those who are not entitled to international protection and of course the provision of asylum, based on the country's international obligations to those who are entitled, namely a balanced immigration policy, is a key feature of what we are doing as a New Democracy. Is there a problem on the islands? Yeah, there's a very big problem on the islands. I absolutely agree that there is a problem in the islands. Why is there a problem on the islands? Because at the moment we have not succeeded in catching the speed required in the asylum and return process. I am not ashamed to admit that and we therefore want your contribution to that. We do not want you to be dissatisfied when you hear that we are guarding the borders, we do not want you to be dissatisfied when you hear that we are taking measures to protect the borders. If you agree with the policy of balanced immigration policy. As it seems to me that it causes you discomfort that the police intervened to protect the citizens of Mytilini. I imagine you'd demand that the police intervene to protect the citizens of Mytilini. Are the refunds causing you discomfort? We made seven return missions in January. We aim to reach at least two hundred returns every week. This is part of our policy, as is the decongestion of the islands. In the last six months, do you know the numbers transferred from the islands to the mainland? Twenty thousand refugees and immigrants were transferred from the islands, and we continue to make disarmament. But we are disconflicting, and at the same time in the framework of the European Union-Turkey Agreement, we are making refunds, and that is a great ideological difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u142	Twelve people are back! What are you talking about, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u143	Calm down, you'll talk and you'll tell them in your turn!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u144	We have made seven missions since January 1st, and last year, January 2019, look to see what had happened. If you tell me we haven't done enough, I accept what you're saying. We will do more, and I hope you will support us making more returns. You will support the Asylum Service when it gives negative decisions to those who are not entitled to international protection. You would support us when we expel NGOs that do not fulfil their obligations. Mr President, Mr Voutsi, I have always heard you with your sobriety and with my respect to you. And all the programmes that exist, the 'EXTIA' programme, the 'ELIOS' programme, we use them. In the context of the European Union's possibilities, we are also constantly calling for new funds, so that we can have more decent living conditions for those currently in Greece. The situation in Moria is unacceptable. I won't tell you anything else. Mr. Paulakis saw it the other day. It's unacceptable. We cannot continue to operate with this open situation without the necessary infrastructure. That is why we have said for two months - and I would also like your support, Mr Janakopoulos - to become the new centres on the islands, to have decent living conditions for those who are both in and out of security, and for the areas and absolute security for the workers at the Asylum Service, so that they can effectively speed up procedures. The government's policy is specific and is given. Our first priority is to reduce the flow. Our second priority is to reduce the impact on local communities. And I hope you will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u145	On the way, both the Parliamentary Representatives and the rapporteurs for their dentistry. If they want to come back, they can be reassigned. I can't ask Mr. Metarakis to be here until then. We are going with my colleague Mr Cappato from the New Democracy. Then there's Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas following Mr. Athanasios Lippis. Mr. Cappato, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that is being passed today in Parliament is a sign of the maturity of the Greek state and of our society towards the great challenges that we face. The government, as it had announced in the election, takes a very serious initiative on an issue that concerns a primary need for Greek citizens, a demand for citizens: the protection of their lives, their property and the natural environment. The government takes a big step towards restoring citizens' confidence in the state mechanism and its ability to protect Greek citizens. To achieve this, a modern institutional framework, adapted to our country's special needs and the experience that services have gained over the years, is necessary. Political protection and crisis management concern very serious challenges in a future that will not be easy. I am transferring you the agony of the citizens of Kefalonia and Ithaca for the preparedness of the Greek state to protect them. The Central Ionian Sea is one of the most seismic areas of the planet, and each year we face serious forest fires. In addition, in recent years, there has been a significant increase in landslides and floods due to extreme weather conditions. In Kefalonia and Ithaca we have learned to live in managerial crises, knowing that in the first difficult hours citizens and local services will have to manage themselves. That is why it is important that primary and secondary local authorities have an effective involvement in crisis management. At the same time, we watch our world change rapidly and new parameters increase the difficulty of services when faced with natural disasters. The scientific community itself is still unable to ascertain what the intensity of the impact of climate change will be. In any case, the difficulties will be increased and the need for a modern institutional framework is given. The draft law shields our country against many of these difficulties. It tackles many of the pathogens of the civil protection mechanism, which is due to the problematic treatment of some of the incidents in the past. The possibility of civil protection is upgraded to take preventive action, as well as to reduce response and decision-making times. It is also important that coordination of local authorities and volunteers is part of a single legislative framework and action plan. With the establishment of the National Crisis Management Agency and the modernisation of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, our country acquires the necessary structural tools. At the end of the day, it is mainly what will be called upon to bear the burden of implementing the new institutional framework. All public sector workers give their time and effort to the service of the citizens. However, women and men of firefighting are those who risk their own physical integrity or even their lives for our own safety. We must toward them an institutional framework that will help them inconceivably to offer their services. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close, I would like to make a special reference to the ministerial amendment to the non-governmental organisations and to the establishment of a register of Member States of non-governmental organisations, a requirement of Greek society and, in particular, of local island societies that are in difficulty in managing immigration. As rapporteur for the draft legislation on the reform of the asylum system in October, I believe that the amendment on non-governmental organisations is a continuation of the government's effort to manage more effectively migratory flows, an effort launched by the draft asylum law, is now continuing with the regulation of action by NGOs and will continue with new legislative initiatives. Today the government sets terms and rules in the foggy landscape of action by some NGOs that cause problems in local communities and unfairly blame the valuable offer of the majority of non-governmental organisations, which are typical and really help the Greek state in managing migration flows. With the Ministerial Amendment we will now know which persons are the NGOs, and other issues are also dealt with, such as the necessary financial support for the municipalities in which accommodation structures are located. Overall, the draft law on civil protection, including the amendment, is a key piece of legislation, necessary to strengthen the confidence of Greek citizens in the capacity of the state mechanism to manage with adequate judgments and unforeseen situations. The bill itself is typical of the government's perception of the need for a decisive public sector reform, which must meet the expectations of Greek citizens. We have to continue with our legislative work in modernising the public sector agencies so that they can do their work and regain the authority they deserve to have on the basis of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u147	We're moving on with Mr. Vassiliou Yoyaka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, Minister, I would first like to express my satisfaction at your great contribution to the sense of security that the citizens have been feeling in recent times, but also the way the police are operating. Political protection is about guaranteeing fundamental goods, first of all, human life itself, but also health, safety and shelter. It is that area where the State's adequacy is tested to respond to emergencies as well as unforeseen situations and the field where the citizens' perception of the capacity of the administration is often determined, from the government to self-government. With this in mind, we must approach the issues of civil protection without shouting, without any danger, without any masturbation. If anything, with the civil protection system provided for in this bill, it is clear that the lessons of the recent past are being exploited. It is enough, I think, to remember some of the things highlighted in the report by Professor Cololakis and his colleagues on fire management in Matti: that the size and probability of the phenomenon have not been properly assessed. That the residents and the perpetrators were not notified in good time. That there was no plan to remove the inhabitants and evacuate the settlement. That there was no appropriate plan to deal with such situations and certainly no local plans. The fact that there have been cases of confusion, overlapping or even ignorance of competences at national, regional and local levels. In short, there has been a large and unauthorised lack of coordination, a lack of leadership, a lack of responsibility, as the Minister said in the co-legislative committees. So these deficits, together with the lack of information, have led to the need to design a central system of dual-oriented civil protection, and to prevent and tackle, a system which, as it has been designed, aims to cure specific omissions and malfunctions, to inform all those involved in the process of recording and monitoring threats, to have an administrative structure, each of which should know what to do, without the time being wasted and, as they say, the lines involved. It aims to have flexibility and speed in managing both people and material resources, to see to it that people are educated at all stages of emergency management - and these include volunteers and citizens - and to be able to use financial instruments and manage funds as quickly and effectively as possible. These needs are to be met with some of the basic projections of the new system. The single risk management and management mechanism forms a vertical structure from the national regional and local level, with decentralised procedures and shared competences, where appropriate, on the basis of a national civil protection plan, under which specific projects are required by the regions and municipalities. The upgrading of the financial service and the establishment of an NRP staff structure strengthens the economic and administrative autonomy of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. This will enable funds from the next NSRP to be used to cope with disasters. The approval, financing and implementation of prevention projects, such as land cleansing, road opening and the creation of fire-fighting zones will be carried out through rapid procedures. It improves training and training of the members of the Fire Corps with the incorporation of the Fire Academy into the new National Crisis Management and Destruction School. Substantial steps are also being taken to better education, operational involvement and the protection of volunteer fire extinguishers. Clear mechanisms and procedures are provided for the preventive removal of citizens, namely their movement from an area where a catastrophic event is likely to occur and before it occurs. With the National Risk and Threat Database, all those elements that may warn of a risk are recorded and the guidelines on which action should be taken and when. The brain of the management mechanism is becoming more operational at the time of the crisis, the National Business Coordinating Centre. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Of these changes alone, it is understandable, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an ambitious effort, which is a leap in relation to what is currently in force in civil protection. And as such, all the factors need to be supported and co-operated. We need the rapid adoption and implementation of anticipated ministerial decisions. We need to secure resources and for prevention projects for more people, better equipment and more modern means, as must be done with the renewal of the firefighting fleet. Operational centres and other structures need to be operated. However, the basis of the mechanism at local level needs to be strengthened, covering the most important shortages of operational units, by training volunteers and self-government officials involved in civil protection, by preparing and vacancies in selected high-risk areas. And in this case, what needs to be done is without much else. We are optimistic, because we have the support of the citizens, who certainly do not want to see - and much more to experience again - a clear lack of state mechanisms. That is what they expect from a normal state and this claim must be justified as a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u149	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Lippe has the floor now from the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in general terms, the existing crisis management and response system has failed. We have experienced its failure in the worst way in recent years with the major and tragic losses. Today's bill shows a clear and detailed design of the civil protection framework, so that we never live dramatic moments again. It places particular emphasis on the prevention and preparation of the entire state apparatus, with a view to avoiding extreme disasters and, in any case, to overcome them in the best way possible. The National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management is an ambitious project that has as a core the overall upgrade of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and develops on four axes: prevention, preparedness, response and rehabilitation. The aim of the entire project is to better coordinate between the competent bodies and to record clear responsibilities for all those involved, so that there is no observance of responsibilities. The coordinating bodies shall be developed at central, regional and local level. One of the priorities of the new effort is the use of research, innovation, technology through the creation for the first time of a register of experts, but also of a permanent scientific council, so that there is direct cooperation with experts. It is also of paramount importance that the National Risk and Threat Database is established, as the potential risks are specified in detail and, in particular, specific responses to the mechanism are identified, depending on the specific problem. Particular care is taken to protect citizens, thanks to the emergency plans, which - especially at regional and municipal level - include clear instructions on organised evacuation, as well as alternative routes for the removal of citizens, ways of transporting them and informing the public. The National School for Crisis Management and Risk Management undertakes theoretical and practical training, as well as the retraining of the involved. Critical is also the significant upgrade of the Fire Academy, which becomes a legal person. A real section of the bill is the arrangements for volunteers. To date, the legal framework for voluntary organisations, which are assisting civil protection, has been dubious and incomplete. The training of volunteers is now regulated, the categorisation of voluntary organisations and a specific procedure is provided for in order to mobilise, where necessary, as well as the possibility of receiving support in materials and instruments. Finally, it is clear for the first time that volunteers are able to drive and operate fire-fighting vehicles and machinery so that these capabilities are not exploited. The provisions of the bill concerning the Fire Corps aspire to modernise it administrative and operationally and improve its organisational structures, while solving many time problems. In this direction, the responsibilities of regional administrations are increased in order to achieve decentralisation in the areas of organisation. At the same time, special duties are provided for in order to make full use of those employees who are legal, economists and engineers. At the same time, there is provision for the first time for grading of low-level staff, in a way which is impracticable and objective. At this point I would like to make a small reference to the latest article in the bill in 189. Enlargement is being made of bodies that can operate as supervised drug use sites and are now taking the role of local government bodies. It is a good thing that this is being done with the new regulation, given that the huge problem of drug use is extremely complex. The program "PESSEAS", which worked for a short period of time in 2013, showed that part of the users trusted it and at least a hundred people were saved from overdose. The example of other European countries also shows us that we can have long-term benefits from these sites, of supervised use, but also from mobile units that will have that role. Studies indicate that there is evidence of death reductions, a reduction in the incidence of HIV, hepatitis C and B, and inhibition in areas where such areas exist. It is time to treat drug users as what they really are, that is, as patients, to provide medical care, not to marginalize them and gradually to feel the necessary security and confidence in the state mechanisms to take the next step and join therapeutic programmes. Today's bill is a dynamic attempt to create a direct and modern national mechanism for managing natural and man-made disasters. Most experts on civil protection issues welcomed it positively. The implementation of the new mechanism ensures a holistic and sound response to crises so that human lives are not jeopardised in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u151	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Varzopoulou, from New Democracy, has the floor now and Mr Tsigris has also been prepared by the New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known and self-evident that dealing with famines, earthquakes and strains is one of the main obligations of the state in a time of peace. Unfortunately, our memories are not good. It is, of course, a good thing not to fight for them, but to look at them only to draw useful conclusions. It is known that the political crisis systems of a non-hospitable nature in our country did not do well, with the lighting exception of the health care systems of epidemics. This is due to the reasons given by the previous speakers: overlapping, conflicting decisions and orders, confusion in the dissemination of information. This problem comes to light with a sufficient, I believe, a great deal and completeness of this draft law. Note: In this regard, the basic principles of the state of staff are applied to the Management Directorate for Political Disasters, Crisis and Natural Disasters. There is a single, vertical project, there are 'frameworks', descriptions of procedures and descriptions of positions. Therefore, it is now possible, within the framework of a single national crisis response mechanism, to have divided administrative processes and administrative bodies across all the relevant pillars: both on the pillar of scientific preparation and administrative support and on the final, but above all on the operational pillar. So it is absolutely possible to monitor the transmission of information from the region to the centre, to know who says and who informs who and why. It is quite clear and clear to monitor the divisive levels of decision making and transmission of the order, so that anyone knows who decides what and who orders what and why. In this way it is absolutely absolutely - and also - clear that the national commander and regional commanders know at all times and, therefore, they can correct and give responsibility to all positions, procedures and times. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a clear emphasis in this bill on the role of political volunteering. It's absolutely important. I think that, for the first time, all of its problems are dealt with with with this completeness and it is working on a new, substantial basis. First - first - at individual level, there is for the first time education and certification. At collective level, there is evaluation, categorisation and, indeed, the combination or, if you like, the interconnection of evaluation with funding, which is described in clear and thus transparent ways. This also enables the personal problems of volunteers to be addressed, if you like. They are given the opportunity to have special licences, even in the private sector, so that they are available at service, to deal with their health problems, to cover, if there is no, but even to issues relating to civil liability. In general, there is a categorisation, evaluation, there is a concrete plan of involvement of these voluntary organisations, with spatial determination. In fact, they are given the opportunity to use both inside the state, work machines and vehicles when necessary. This is a real revolution in social volunteering. I come to the third point, which I must say, Minister, that it really is impressive. And this is the de jure re-establishment of the Fire Corps, for which you really deserve congratulations. Look, the Fire Corps has too much to offer. What I have to stress is that it has given me a very positive impression, is the new way of evaluating the staff. This triple way, with the evaluation by the indirect and direct Head, but also by the existing ones and, indeed, by introducing operational criteria, creates enormous potential. It's enough, of course, to do it right. We all know that when we assess the performances of persons, there we are dealing with issues of psychiatricity and therefore we must be very careful with the concepts, but also with the so-called 'procedural reliability factor', 'inter-rater reliability'. What does that mean? This means that there is a need for work here, that is, there needs to be specific training for judges and specific exercises. But if, Minister, you manage this, then you have an excellent tool in your hands, which can be used in the firefighting, can be used in EL.AS, it can be used in all the uniform bodies, which evaluate such abilities. They are still solved - and good - years of personnel issues. All these products of the crisis - seasonal, five-year-olds - enter a series of incorporation into the basic trunk. I shall also mention something very substantial: the adoption by the Firefighting of the good practice of the Air Force for the creation - at least for some senior officers - of the possibility of the parallel year of off-organic positions something is pioneering. And if this here is the one that delivers and prevents the early retirement of senior staff, the EL.AS must use it as well. And the rest of the guns. I will conclude by curbing this completeness of your proposal, Minister, by proposing something which might be a little strange for today's Greek data. And that applies to all the uniform bodies. Note: When one rises at 5.00 a.m. in the morning and is slewed with 10G in the sky or when one gets up and goes to face a fire, they need special skills and especially special psyche. This is not adequately detected by the general system of the pan-Hellenic examinations. We must follow international examples and now be brave enough so that all our uniform bodies can follow selection procedures without compromising them. I shall close, Minister, and I shall refer to the question of supervised sites of use. Watch out. I didn't understand anything. A year ago, in this Chamber, there was the establishment of these areas. In fact, with a proper proposal from the Left, which we voted on at the time, these were entrusted to the bodies referred to in Article 51 of the relevant framework law, which is very simply OkANA, the KETHA, the two psychiatric hospitals that we have left, the Eleanon Therapy Shop. And then they came in - apparently my colleague and dear friend, Mr. Mandas, then - and two state hospitals in Epirus. The question is this: why are these being extended now? If a mayor, for example, thinks he can offer in this area, wants to use these spaces, apply them to his municipality, he can make a programme agreement with all these actors who have huge experience. Why should he urge and take responsibility for the creation and operation of these sites himself? In other words, I think that in this sense there is administrative capacity, which the existing law gives, and by broadening it up, we may be creating more problems than we solve. In any case, de jure re-establishment of firefighting is something that honors this government and I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. For seven minutes Mr. Tsigris from New Democracy has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr. Gikas also has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, because at the moment the 3rd High School of Egypt is visiting the House, to welcome them from this step as well. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, should we ask ourselves what happened to Mattie, Mandra, Attica, Kinetta, before? What happened a decade ago, in the fire that destroyed Ayyalia, or in the nearest mourning of all of us for the Tropical Forest in West Achaia? What went wrong? What didn't happen? What decisions didn't we make? If we do not ask this question first and foremost to ourselves and then address it with answers to the Greek society, we will certainly not be able to overcome the problems of crisis management. Coordination problems have been created, problems in decision-making. They had to decide in a few minutes or more, multifaceted or single - face organs should give answers in a few minutes. Obviously there was a problem of communication, and a lack of coordination and all these few minutes. Creating this gap and vacuum can burn an entire area or kill a hundred people. For the first time, then, Greece is seriously facing civil protection as a single authority, which has to give convincing and rapid responses to decision-making and coordination, with very fast reflexes, in a few minutes. The draft law therefore proposes a national disaster reduction policy. So what's he doing? Concentration and integration of forces, a common 24-hour business chamber, where everything is coordinated and one decides. In my village - I think in the villages of all of us - they say that "where many cocoons speak, they are late to dawn". That's how it's done in judgments. There must be a joint decision and one must be decided. So we are creating a single risk-management authority. Is it something new? Do we discover the powder? Oh, no. It was discovered years ago. So what do we do? We are taking a successful international model, which has already been applied in the United States since 1993, in France - a European state - since 2004, and of course we do not take it that way, we are adapting it to the specificities of the Greek case. From now on, this single risk-management authority integrates the prevention, preparedness of the mechanism, response and at the same time the restoration of the damage. The new principle has financial self-sufficiency, something very important, new structures, but also the possibility of receiving direct Community funding. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law makes something else very important. We are talking about civil society. In fact, the voluntary movement is encouraged and rekindled, we make the Greek society a participant in any national crisis, whenever it occurs, in the critical area of disaster risk. We also need to codify legislation for the first time. Today there are many diffuse provisions in many legislation, i.e. essentially a multitude of legal mechanisms, which creates problems in management. With this draft law, civil protection legislation is codified for the first time. It is also a new and modern mechanism and a transfer regulation, which is absolutely worthwhile at last. It's molecules, like some kind of SAAP in the fire department. In other words, we are strengthening denomination. Low-ranking scores are still being created, which was not until yesterday and we wonder why. The fire department executives are down to 90%. Officers are only 10%. They haven't had a rating so far. The citizen will now listen to us and think that we are living in a third world. At last there is a start in this area too. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, let me invoke a little of my capacity. I've been a teacher in the Fire Academy for three decades. I teach there. Most firefighters are my students. I have to tell you that for years we have been telling you that the Fire Academy needs to be upgraded. We must move away from education, which is suited to the need of trainers and move on to education that adapts to the needs of trainers. So today we are going to higher education, four-year-olds. The School of Firefighters is now being held at the highest level of technology and university institution, the School of Refugees. We're actually putting education in a new era. But let me, Minister, by the way, as an Achaios MEP, also bring you a permanent and permanent request from Achaea. Patras is a large town complex, the third one in the country. It has three hundred thousands of inhabitants according to the last census of 2011 -- today it is much more - and in fact it has only one fire station to create conditions - along with the fire-fighting step in Halanderitsa - fire-fighting in eight hundred thousand acres of urban and perimeter areas. We are therefore calling, from this point of view, for the Achai, a second fire station in Patras, which will actually offer - not only in the field of prevention but also repression - the best results for the next fire-fighting period. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, Mr General, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with something I have heard in the speech of the Chief of Greek Solution, which basically referred to what the Deputy Adviser of National Security said and did not even very much think it was the government's position. I am, of course, talking about the issue of Aegean co-existence with the Turks, something Mr Dokos has not said. He said, under what conditions, that could happen. Today, however, he has made it clear that this has been one of his positions for many years. The point is, however, that if you look at the Charter and study international law, there is certainly no case of co-existence, because 92% with 93% of this marine area of course belongs to Greece. So co-manage yours can't be. From there on, I would also like to make a comment on what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has said, speaking with deceptive characterisations about the effort made by the government in the immigration - refugee. I will say that, yes, they may have, yes, we may have set up the Ministry before six months, but the essence is that there have been significant moves, people's recruitment - now the recruitment of other two hundred people for the Asylum Service - is planned to recruit a thousand two hundred border guards, followed by a new intake of five hundred in the Immigration Service, changed the legal framework for refugees - migrants - for the Asylum Service, I mean - and, anyway, this government is moving. But, in order to be able to deliver, it takes a little time for all this, so that all these legislative initiatives can take flesh and bone. I now come to our bill today. It is an important bill, because in fact when in the past few years, in 2017 and 2018, we have mourned a hundred and twenty-six - if I am not mistaken - dead of inability to stand up to circumstances and deal with crises correctly, you understand that this effort by the government to bring such a thorough bill within a very short period of time is very important and we welcome it. This bill is actually trying to coordinate the whole range of responsibilities, directives, circulars and levels in a functional structure so that, if - the unborn - there is an important crisis to be able to produce the appropriate results. Citizens expect a lot from the government, the government in question. And you know how good a government is or not, it looks in the crises, in the disasters. We saw in the past few years what happened. So with this bill, with the verticalisation of administrations, with the coordinating body set up in the national trunk, with the regional operational coordination bodies of the region - thirteenth of the number - with the local operational coordination bodies per municipality, with the powers, with the local coordinators and, of course, under the central control of the Secretary-General for Civil Protection, who also has responsibility, I think that the situation is getting worse. Let's not be fooled. It is not easy to coordinate so many bodies, so many levels. Even in the Armed Forces many times in the battlefield it is difficult to coordinate the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. There are thousands of hours of exercise, in order to achieve this, and I guess when you're dealing with other levels, where there's civilian staff involved and not just. As time passes, I want to say a word about the important forecasts of the Fire Force bill. Indeed, as the previous colleague said, the Fire Corps is being upgraded, the bases are being laid to make the Fire Corps equal - to say that - with the other Security Bodies and not just. I have only one or two comments to make, which I would ask you, Mr Minister, to bear in mind. I take the view that there should be a Technical Support and Study Directorate in the new Fire Corps so that the Fire Corps itself can undertake projects where necessary. And I say this because in my constituency, in Corfu, for four and a half years now, we have been waiting for the first fire station to move where the central government is and it cannot be done, because there is not exactly the right procedure and the region has undertaken to do this. I'm at least hearing that's what's on the way. I would also like to say that - for my constituency - there is this small fire-fighting unit. It should be strengthened, because it is an area that we have every summer - for the Ionian Islands I am talking about - too many fires and fires, and it is absolutely necessary to upgrade it there, Moura. It's a very good bill, as it's all regulated. I would, however, like to say, Minister, and Mr General, that, of course, after ten years of crisis, we need to look seriously at the upgrading of the fire-fighting equipment, whether it is airborne or still on the personnel equipment. I therefore believe that this will be the case. I would like to congratulate you on your initiative for both of the bodies - Civil Protection and Fire Force - whose upgrading you are bringing and, of course, I call on all colleagues, because here they do not fit micropolitically when we talk about civil protection and firefighting, to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Koutsoubas, from New Democracy, has the floor and Mr Simopoulos is also being prepared by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. I did not mean to speak, ladies and gentlemen, because I consider that I underestimate your intelligence and your logic of persuading you - not only the majority, the New Democracy, but also the Majority and Elissonian Opposition - to vote on a bill for which we have all succeeded. Honestly, the lack of arguments on your part is evidenced by the following statistical evidence: from the Elassonian Opposition, Minister and Secretary-General, they have spoken only six and from the Major only nineteen. This means a lack of arguments or that the arguments they came to submit were unclear in a bill full, substantiated and necessary. So I'm coming back, and I'm saying I didn't mean to talk. I thought, however, that my obligation was to come to Parliament today - morning I am always in Parliament - I met the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and because in this place we have only learned to blame persons, I considered it to be my moral and political obligation - not to transfer, I believe, only the opinion of the colleagues of the New Democracy, but more of the Greeks and Greeks of my province, my region - for the struggle he gave and gives him and to congratulate him publicly in this area and, of course, all those people who are close to you with the leadership of the Ministry - volunteers, firefighters, all those involved - to thank them for the struggle they gave, who gave them and give them daily under adverse conditions, to protect the lives of the Greeks and their property. And, of course, we have an obligation as a state, a self-evident obligation, to give these people and to create those structures and tools so that they can meet their duty, their obligations. A necessary move, if you wish, from our point of view, which we must do for so long - I do not want to say that neither you or we nor I can only blame the previous government - obviously we were not aware of the danger. And now, after the sufferings that took place in lessons, we come here to tell us that this law that should have taken place yesterday and blame us for not having done it in six months, telling us that this law does not qualify. You have to decide. Does he want to change the legislative framework? Yes or no? If, then, we start on a basis that the legislative framework, which is in place, wants to change, then we have to go to second reflection and ask: Is this law functional and correct? A law, ladies and gentlemen, if it is operational, will in practice also appear in parliamentary democracies when a law is not operational, parliamentary democracy has the power to change it. We are therefore presenting this legislative framework, which is necessary at that time, with structures, a framework which can cope with these new conditions that have been created on the planet. Three are the factors we need to highlight: man, structures and the state and, of course, nature. By nature we cannot put them in place, but we have to give people those tools and the state to create those structures that can meet these challenges of times. That is why we are legislating by bringing this bill. Why is this mechanism recommended? Because there was no single national risk management mechanism and the existing legislative framework had failed, it was inadequate. Is there any doubt about that? This bill combats existing pathogens and aims, through the upgrading of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, to increased operational efficiency, which leads to the defence of human life, property and natural wealth. This bill rationally attempts to correct, resolve administrative and service malfunctions. It clarifies issues, upgrades services and the Fire Force at administrative level. In short, a new administrative model, in line with technological and scientific developments, is being introduced, which is in line with the current circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, a state - as Mr Tsigris said, I said in a previous speech here in plenary - does not expect disasters to come in order to prepare. He's getting ready. Don't hurt what's happened to us. That's what we're doing today. And of course I sincerely regret that in this bill, which divides us from nothing, the Great Opposition stands negatively. I would remind you of an old saying in our resignation: in the parliamentary democracies, two are the pillars: the government and the opposition. When one gets sick, it's a problem of democracy. And you're the one who's treating you today. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Simopoulos has the floor for seven minutes and Mr Kotsos has been prepared for the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it was 8 a.m. on the morning of July 10, 2019. My phone's ringing. It was three days after the election and one day after the government took the oath. Who was on the phone? From civil protection, considering that I am still Secretary General for Public Works. That was five years after, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you were in the government. And this little introduction I make in response to a colleague, because a colleague from SYRIZA has so far spoken, who, in this bill, saw opaque procedures, attempts to settle "floor" and generally conquered the bill, without considering that we were going with an automatic pilot for five and a half years. And it wasn't only in the morning of July 10th. It had been two years ago. I told them I wasn't Secretary General for Public Works. So this is a very small example of where we were going. And this government is actually coming to unify scattered procedures, and it comes to put the field of civil protection at another level. For so far, civil protection has been working on the basis of the skills of the Minister, the Deputy Secretary-General and the Secretary-General and thanks to the heroism of some public officials. You didn't do anything, you just watched as viewers and you come here to ask the government for responsibility. I can say other examples which, of course, demonstrate how important these interventions are. You know, in the Kefalonia earthquakes, where the present Minister was in charge of infrastructure, I was Secretary General for Public Works. On the plane with which we went the first day to Kefalonia there were various scientists - and of course each of us invited whoever wanted - to, scientists on the spot who have created huge communication problems in the effort of the government. And now a scientific board is being set up. When I first went to Kefalonia, then the government put a ship to relieve the people who had a problem, but, because there was no co-operation with the police, the ship was entering whoever wanted it. There has been no definition of competence and there is not until now. There are ministries that are involved, which are almost all the government. You know that the responsibility for compensation for those affected to the populations, for individuals, for the municipalities and for businesses lies with the regions. And after all, as far as the regions are concerned, if we want to be financed by the European Union, applications should be made to the Ministry of Finance. That is why we see various MEPs from all sides when there is a real natural disaster to present press releases that they have intervened in the European Union. They're automating now. A specific ESDP service or European programmes shall be established at the relevant Secretariat-General. There is an effort to integrate voluntary organisations into the whole framework. Do you know that in Eye the volunteer organisations from Thessaloniki had to pay for the equipment and trucks that would come from Thessaloniki and northern Greece? It was something that had not been solved and had not been solved over time. The way in which the government is today moving, defining responsibilities and solving all these simple things that I mentioned, we are moving towards a better situation. The enemy of good is the best. This effort really needs further deepening and, above all, Mr Minister and Mr General, if we do not have any electronics to do, the whole effort will be left in the middle of the day. There must be protocols. Protocols right now don't exist. It cannot, as I have said, be the heroism of the officials or the management adequacy of the supervising ministers and Secretary-General to be the one to determine the outcome. We need to find the structure. Such structures exist in developed states. I know, for example, that there is an entire State Secretary in Russia. Of course it's a very big and vast country. That's what this bill does. It gives all those infrastructures and processes so that later on we can proceed with an electronic recording of all those involved and, above all, create protocols. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u161	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the 3rd High School of Egypt (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kotsos, from New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u162	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a follow-up to our Government's Marathon on the one hand that Greece joins the core of countries dealing with climate change, but also, at the same time, joins the top of the countries that face sufficient, reliable and reliable crises. But an important element before we come up against natural disasters, arising either from natural causes or from climate change or from the anthropogenic environment, is to be able to work on the prevention and development of plans to address and limit the contribution of the human factor in this area. For Greece 2020, where we are even today making tragic calculations of the disasters that have left both the floods in Mandra in 2017 and in Eye in 2018, it is an undeniable need to create a National Crisis Management and Risk Management Mechanism, as is provided for in the draft law we are discussing today, a mechanism that will have specific statutes and covering the whole range of disaster cycles. The previous legislative framework identifies a lack of a uniform holistic, vertical risk management mechanism from the prevention phase to the response phase and a fragmentation, a duplication and conflict of competence between civil protection actors at central, regional and local level. I would like to pass on my experience as Mayor for twenty-one years and as president of the Thessaly PES. It is true that I attended numerous coordination meetings at national, regional or local level. And I would also like to inform you that most of these meetings, most of them in the coordinating bodies, were of an anniversary nature. They were engaged in parallel dialogues, with little information, little preparation, little prevention and, above all, when we came to dealing with problems, then we have huge problems. So we lived in Matti and Mandra, and, as usual, responsibilities move from one level to another, either to the elected representatives, from local government to the region, or to state services, from one service to another. When it was the police, when it was the fire brigade and so on. Thus the National Crisis Management and Risk Management Mechanism structured is based on four levels: prevention, preparedness, response and rehabilitation. And, of course, I will also point out the level of information, because serious information is needed about how our society should behave, how our fellow citizens should behave when they are in the midst of a crisis, in the midst of a natural phenomenon, in order to achieve a better and uniform way of dealing with civil protection incidents in the public interest. This bill finally establishes the extremely necessary National Database, where the existing risks and threats will be recorded, and specific actions will be launched in this process. We finally see how a Final Structure is being set up in the National Strategic Reference Framework to deal with natural disasters. It is something I have said since the previous Community Support Framework since the previous programming period. Because the issues of civil protection will be of increasing concern to us from now on, it is imperative that the NSRC has a special axis that will also have projects that will provide for natural disasters or, when we have the natural disaster, how the environment is restored. A Operational Risk Prevention and Management Fund is also set up and a Crisis Management Study Centre is being set up, which I consider to be extremely important. And I am sure that if this Crisis Management Study Centre starts operating as soon as it sees Acheloos's work, where within the river bank the dams and water has become now flowing downstream of the stream through roaming tunnels that have been embedded in 70%, they will understand that it is a "bomb" on the ground and in Thessaly and Greece as well. Because in 2016, when we had intense flooding phenomena and roaming tunnels could not absorb all of the water, the water reached half a metre from the tunnel leading the water to Thessaly. And if the rain continued for one more day, then Acheloos be assured that he would be in Musaaki, would be in Thessaly, with unforeseen consequences for the local society. And you know, that's why climate change won't be the fault of either. It won't be the environment. It will be our own security, our inconsistency, our obsession and our own prejudices, which do not at last complete this project, which is a work of breath for Thessaly, but also an energy steam engine for Greece. In addition to the current emergency civil protection situation, a situation of specific civil protection mobilisation is established due to a threat. With the Committee established for Risk Assessment it can be considered urgent and immediate implementation by the Fast track process within an exclusive period of 90 days, projects that are necessary to prevent natural disasters. And you know, this provision, no matter how many people want to deal with it from its negative side, is in the extremely positive direction. I'll tell you this: In 2018, my region was declared flooding, and it is true that the SYRIZA government has prompted us to finance us with the sum of EUR 200,000 at that time, to deal with the consequences of this phenomenon. Do you know with Law 4412 after how much time did we manage to implement these projects? After a year and a half we started. So we started it and reformed it and problems remained there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is therefore important that such procedures, which are declared as an area of firefighting or flooding, provide for the projects required by very rapid procedures, but always within the framework provided for by the legislator. All this, of course, presupposes the proper functioning of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, along with the upgrading of an important system of volunteering, which also plays an important role in this whole case, the partnership of the Firehouse and, of course, a clear categorisation of voluntary organisations, with an emphasis on education. They support the necessary material that has been mentioned before, because it is not only to pay tolls or transport them, but even the material that is so necessary when these people put themselves at the disposal of either public services or local society and help to deal with these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u164	In a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u165	Not in a minute, Mr Colleague, because there are too many colleagues who need to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u166	I shall now conclude, with a reference to a service that now operates as a brake on such issues and requires reform and reorganisation, Minister. It is the Forest Service, which in the past has contributed significantly to the level of the mountain economy through self-confidence works, through the cuts it gave to the locusts of these regions, who are modern guardians of Hellenism, and has now become a repressive and denouncing mechanism, a mechanism that is delaying even the forest roads for the fires. Usually these cleansings, ladies and gentlemen, do them in the autumn, without reason and cause at that time. It also has difficult procedures to clean up the land, and imagine that too many of these streams are at risk of surpassing against natural disasters and heavy rainfalls and the forest, through its embarrassment, through the complexity of the processes and through the inability to carry out studies, it cannot satisfy its mission and we must upgrade it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u168	Here, then, I will recall the words of Nikos Kazantzakis, who says: "Love responsibility, say, I, myself alone, have a duty to save the land and, if I don't, it's my fault." Thank you very much. Hot congratulations, Minister. The bill is moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u170	I hope and hope that we do not have to make use of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u171	Mrs Gerovali has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are really discussing a multi-brand plan in the sense that only fifty-four articles concern civil protection, and it could be - we have said so in the debate and in the committees - two bills. So, in fact, the burden of the bill is directed towards changes, fragmentary interventions in the Firehouse. I will mention, in particular, the new transfer regulation, which violates acquired rights of fire extinguishers, for example, the irreversible after twenty-five years of service, which goes up to thirty years. Moreover, they are part of an unjust transfer system even firefighters that were hired on locality criteria. On the contrary, a request from fire extinguishers could be met to join the public mobility system, with appropriate physical adjustments. What are we going to do here as a result? Thousands, thousands of people, really, are going to be thrown out. That's what I think should be about the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the reorganisation of civil protection concerns us. This bill concerns us, and it concerns us in fact and in depth. Remind me that we had drawn up a proposal for a law - a few months ago it was also tabled in this parliamentary term - a proposal that emerged from cooperation with local government, with the scientific community, taking advantage of the Gondamer finding and extracting positive comments from the Council of Europe. The philosophy of this proposal was to strengthen municipalities and regions by staff and resources, to organise independent coordination centres at local and regional level with continuous operation. That was the main target of the bill. With the assistance of the national central authority and the scientific community, by standardised procedures and a co-ordination protocol, these local and regional centres would develop into effective operational units. Here we have a bill with completely different logic. There is nothing to offer to this project at local and regional level. Ignore, Mr President, Minister, Mr Generally speaking, the needs of the municipalities, you maintain bureaucracy, the chaos of competence and the powerless committees at regional level. I think that they are placed as business coordinators of the country, one in each region. In other words, you assign them to the poster, operational coordination at local and regional level. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I have no idea what model you've been applying, where the state and the entire local government are based on post-call officials, without any organization and reinforcement of service structures. When they leave, what about them? Is there going to be a constant state? Is there going to be a structured operational infrastructure? I think that, as in the refugee, as in civil protection, you are even turning your back to your mayors and regionals. And as the alleged floating dams will obviously not solve the problem of thousands of people stacked on the islands, so in civil protection I think the field, instead of normalizing, is being sedated. The remarks - complaints from both the Committee of the Regions and the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece say this - that not only did you not consult those responsible, but even today their proposals are ignored. The selflessness of the grades 1 and 2 is being violated. You take the funds from the municipalities, regions and ministries, even when the HSY has asked for civil protection and a programme similar to the "Philodimo" programme, which is much more necessary than building a DGI, say, the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. It will be: It will be the only Ministry to have two financial services. It is much more necessary than anticipating the ESDP Final Structure, the confidential funds to the Secretary-General, etc., to organise this whole system. To have an institutionalised process with distinct roles, a common Single Action Protocol for all actors is not an option. That's necessary. It is not enough for a post-mortem official to take over coordination and, indeed, only at the regional level, when the decision, for example, of organised preventive removal remains at the first level, i.e. the mayor. Municipalities are the first block of civil protection due to the proximity of any catastrophic incident. Not only do they have the responsibility, but they also have better knowledge of local conditions and available means. It's a lot of issues. How can organised preventive removal be carried out? Who decides to escalate the risk situation? Are there any action protocols? Is an event management finally established, as imposed by international practices? Unfortunately, we do not see anyone answering all these questions. Overall, the draft law ignores basic principles, as best practices impose internationally. I will not repeat that civil protection is all that we have taken care of and done so that you have found a satisfactory mechanism and dealt with the phenomena since the summer until today, because the system of civil protection has also been strengthened in personnel and in the media for these days. Ladies and gentlemen, they need a whole range of actions and synergies. SYRIZA, we want to be helpful in upgrading the country's civil protection. However, this cannot be done when the government stands in the face of the proposals of the parties involved and, ultimately, with the citizens. Civil protection needs organisation and support both at local and regional level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u173	Thank you too, my colleague. The floor is now given by Mr. Spashakis, from New Democracy, for seven minutes and Mr. Apostolos is prepared by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Civil Protection seeks to create a new, modern and operational institutional framework for crisis management and risk management. The results of the claws and malfunctions were evident during the previous parliamentary term. Who forgets the unspeakable tragedy in Attica of 2018, but also the vaterlo that prevailed on political and operational planning? We must, Minister, and you are right to do so, move on to an institutional and innovative organisational reform. That's what this draft law does. With its areas and improvements, the structure of civil protection is better placed on the ground, as well as its main operational arm, which is the Fire Corps. The General Secretariat of Civil Protection shall be upgraded administratively and operationally. A national mechanism of overall, vertical management, which guarantees a timely and effective response to each emergency situation shall be established. Central and regional coordination structures and bodies shall be established, with fully clarified responsibilities and tasks for all levels of administration. The aim is to ensure speed in reaction and decision-making times. It seeks to eliminate bureaucracy and eliminate the diffusion status and, ultimately, to withdraw responsibility. It is planned to establish a National Risk and Threat Database in order to achieve risk and threat analysis. The National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management is established in the standards of other countries, which will make use of applied research and IT and communication tools. A permanent Civil Protection Scientific Board is hereby established, which is also planned to operate as the European Centre for Forestry. At the same time, staffing will also be strengthened. First of all, we refer to the Fire Corps, which is actually being upgraded through the bill, satisfying the main demands of its officials. First of all, lifelong training of firefighting officials is a priority of the current government. The Fire Academy, under the umbrella of the National Crisis and Risk Management School, is being upgraded. The School of Firefighters is also being upgraded, gaining academic status. Excellence is being rewarded by the invasion of the first five of the School of Firefighters at the School of Officers. Fire extinguishers who hold a licence or a postgraduate degree shall be upgraded by establishing a provision for staff of special duties, legal, economists, engineers and other professions or studies. The upgrading of the operation of the Fire Corps passes through a pioneering system of evaluation of the executives of all degrees, through a crystal and aptitude process. The same is true of the transfers for which a new moleculation-based transfer regulation is envisaged for all. Finally, apart from permanent ones, there are five-year obligation issues in the bill. In particular, Article 180 deletes the concept of potential renewal and defines that it is explicitly renewed under the terms and conditions set out in paragraph 7 of that Article. In this way an important request is made by the Association of Firefighters of Macedonia - Thrace and North Aegean, whose board of directors has repeatedly visited my political office in Alexandroupolis. This is because it was not constitutionally guaranteed and it was acceptable that their contracts should be extended until retirement. In addition, new seasonal staff may be recruited, up to six months each year and up to five anti-nuclear periods. This means that there will be a mechanism in place at the beginning of the next anti-missile period instead of last year's procedure, which you will recall that the notice was made on 6 May and expired on 15 May. Finally, in connection with the upgrading of firefighting services this year, the Government plans to recruit a thousand five hundred seasonal fire extinguishers. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this bill is innovative. I can tell you that it is in line with the general regulation that applies to the operation of the Greek Police. All that you will be voting in favour has already been implemented and, indeed, we also have a success in terms of operation. Because it exploits our experience as a country, as I said, through the Greek Police and incorporates good practices of previous laws, but also of other countries. It adapts civil protection to modern climatic, scientific and technological data, while at the same time multipliering the role of the Fire Corps and the voluntary movement. Ladies and gentlemen, natural disasters will continue to exist and occur in our country, such as fires, earthquakes, floods and anything else that can happen in a country. It is an opportunity for you, who have experienced the great catastrophe in Attica in 2018, to vote in favour of this law, because history will record you in the brave God. Otherwise, you will apologize for what happened in Attica. We are all witnessing these sad and tragic events. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for being so precise. Mr. Apostle, from SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, the main object of the bill we are debating today is to deal with the agro-food fires in the countryside and in the peri-urban areas, but also the flooding phenomena which in most cases follow. They have been problems that have shaken our country for many decades, with a tendency to worsen in recent years, mainly because of the abandonment of the countryside and the lack of forest management and the lack of spatial planning for the development of many regions. Since the bill refers mainly to repression, I will say a few words about the most important tool for dealing with both phenomena, prevention, which starts from the previous incident, and ends up with the next rehabilitation. When we talk, ladies and gentlemen, about prevention, we mean forest roads, anti-nuclear zones, cleansing, on the basis of an anti-nuclear plan, which will of course include the possibility of early intervention in ten to fifteen minutes, as was the case before with the inhabitants of the areas that had intervened within five to ten minutes and the fires were not made. On the contrary, we have now come to leave this intervention in air means, which, if they cannot operate because of weather and relief, then, of course, are followed by major disasters. There is also no provision for the next day of repression, which must be aimed not only at defending the regeneration, for example, in the forests that are burning, but also at avoiding the flooding phenomena. Potential rains as a natural phenomenon occur regularly in many microclimates in our country, but the size of the catastrophe they cause is related to human behaviour, both before and after. When the state has reached the point for decades now, all it has learned to do is to legitimise illegality and arbitraryness, with more typical of these ballots in the streams - now it is preparing, in fact, for arbitrary forests, but we will see when the time comes - then there is a need for great twists, which in the bill there are no. I come to the repression and particularly to the operational part of the legislative initiative, because that, ladies and gentlemen, is of particular interest to the citizen. It is characterized by fragmentation and coatings. And, as I said in committee, there are still a number of ministerial decisions and circulars to be implemented. I mention a few examples. You have not predicted, Minister, how the national potential and the means of civil protection will be organised in an emergency situation at all levels: central, regional and local. Many people contribute to civil protection. From the wider public sector, regional and local government, to the smallest voluntary organisation. How will all of these be mobilised, without any practical means of coordinating them? In any case, there should be at all levels and at all levels ministerial, regional and local decisions. This is where the overlap and the responsibilities involved begin, which are the biggest problem in the regulation you are proposing. In the state of preparedness of the civil protection system you are proposing, not only do the body which declares them to be declarant is not provided anywhere in the draft law, but there is also no reference to terms and conditions under which these situations are declared. There is no provision at municipal level for a civil protection coordination centre, even for emergency operations. Municipalities in all civil protection systems are the first emblem to deal with such situations, to provide support to the bodies responsible for addressing them. Because the municipality is simply the closest institution to the citizen and it is the one that can mobilise local communities. The situation is even more complicated with the provision for the Regional Civil Protection Coordinator, a post-master, who will be recruited by the district manager for a fixed term term of office, will take over the entire civil protection system of the region, since it is intended not only to be headed by the Regional Civil Protection Operational Centre but also to manage it with personnel in the region in his judgement, as well as to replace the district manager in the performance of his duties as president. I stress: A post-mortem official, not the thematic vice-president or the country-president, should direct and coordinate the actions of the civil protection of the municipalities and the region. You forgot to report to decentralised administration. You can, if you do not remove them, use them, especially by mobilising forestry and rural services on the big issue of drafting fireworks. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a lot of work that needs vigilance, because these delays were also mentioned by the rapporteur and by some of his colleagues in the New Democracy. There is indeed work that can be needed to speed up. Be careful, however, because this competence of procedures might divert civil protection from its mission. All this will be the first application of forest fires. And I repeat: The person who is not anywhere is the manager of the natural environment called the forestry or rural service. To make them work, Mr Kotse - and I address my colleague in the New Democracy - that is what we need, not to deceive them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have had your hands, Minister - I shall end, Madam President - with serious and substantiated proposals for the organisation of civil protection. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] You ignored it, as you ignored SYRIZA's proposal for a law. I should like to close, ladies and gentlemen, with one wish, that the current government proposal does not have the effects on the natural environment of a previous government in 1998. You all know, we've all experienced the huge catastrophes that have fallen into our country since 1998. Don't live like this again!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u177	Good afternoon, too. We'll get along - I'm sure - fine. Mr Charalambos Kastanides, Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement, has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing a new organisational model for civil protection, which I very much fear will prove to be heavy, difficult and expensive. It forms parallel structures for emergencies that require flexibility and the possibility of direct action. Why do I call the model luxurious? We have the National Crisis Management Coordinating Centre, thirteen Regional Crisis Management Centres, the National Crisis Management School and the Crisis Management Studies Centre. Next to this structure, there will be the central coordination body for civil protection, regional coordination bodies for civil protection and local bodies for regional protection. These two parallel structures are lacking, according to the administrative model of the country, the decentralized administration, which has good services, staffed, perhaps not with a large number of staff, but sufficient in terms of knowledge and experience. The ones in your plan are nowhere. In a vertical structure of business centres, why do you need a National Crisis Management School and a Crisis Management Study Centre? Why can't there be a Crisis Management Study Centre within the framework of the National Crisis Management School? I add: Why do you need a permanent scientific board, which will be the permanent advisor to each government, but this scientific board cannot have a Crisis Management Study Centre? In this respect, there is also an organisational nature conflicting with the provisions of the draft law. As the Scientific Council of Parliament rightly points out, in a body of specialists such as the Firehouse, which is a body of security with a vertical hierarchical structure, all the executive services of this body are solely within the competence of the Commander of the Firehouse, except for an exception: that of the National Crisis Management Centre, which is not the responsibility of the Commander of the Firefighting, although in the provision of Article 74 he is supervised by all the services of the Firefighting Corps. Exceptionally, the National Coordinating Centre is under the responsibility of the Secretary General of Civil Protection, with what this means for the operation of the Fire Corps in emergencies. But there are ambiguities too. Who has the decisive competence in the thirteen operational regional centres? Who's got it? Although I raised the matter with the Parliamentary Committee, the wrong answer is given by the authors of the legislation. In my question who has the decisive responsibility, the responsibility for the final decision, when an emergency is unfolding, a natural phenomenon, in coordinating the actions of all the services coordinated by the regional operational centre, the answer given is the region's coordinator. Wrong! Because in the text you drafted, you define that it is the coordinator of the region who scores the emergency and determines the degree of readiness at level ‘1, ‘2’, ‘3’ and ‘4’. But when a decision is to be made, who will make the decision? If the answer you imply, despite the fact that you do not describe it in your text, is the regional coordinator, you are committing administrative and political error. A poster may not have the final responsibility of the operational centre over the district commander. Therefore, the final responsibility and decision should be given - in my view - by the Vice-President of the Council at the very least. You're not doing well on other issues. You are not doing well with public procurement, you are not doing well with the maintenance of constitutional legitimacy. There are, in fact, points, Mr Minister, and the report by the Scientific Council. Let's get one of them. Enter an exemption clause for the only criterion to be taken into account in order to serve the responsibilities of the Directorate-General for Coordination of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. And the only criterion is the relevant service, experience. You introduce an exception to the general rules of immaterial and objective crisis in order to take a lead position, as they apply throughout the public sector, in which not only experience but also many other essential and formal qualifications are taken into account. What is the special reason why such an exception can be introduced for the regional coordinator? And warn that this may be contrary to Articles 4 and 103 of the Constitution. But there is another one more straightforward, in my view, insulting the Constitution. The Almighty General Secretary for Civil Protection shall, by your authority, determine what responsibilities, operational needs, how to serve all offices, departments and addresses of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. The Constitution stipulates that, in order to establish an authorizing provision, the basic rule on the basis of which such authorisation is given must be laid down in advance. Here, your order stipulates that everything will be legislated by a regulatory body that is sustainable, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection. Neither do you, Mr. Citizen's Protection Minister, have such a responsibility. Neither do you! You should, according to the Constitution, describe in the law what the powers of the relevant departments, addresses or general addresses of a service are, and since, in general, you describe - the basic rule is this - then delegated details and in particular issues can be described by regulatory action by the Almighty Secretary-General for Civil Protection. I am warning you that, in the event of an insult of the provision, it will fall as an anti-constitutional. There are also problems with public procurement. You provide that in exceptional circumstances, in urgent need, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection may conclude new contracts or amend existing contracts without any criterion, with only a finding that there is an urgent need. You introduce an exception to the transparency system of Union law, as introduced into our place, in the domestic legal order with Law 4412. Law 4412 provides for specific reasons for which an exception may be introduced - and yet one of the main reasons for this exception is that the exceptional or urgent need is not due to the inertia of the services invoking the exceptional need. Let me tell you one example: if the Secretary-General for Civil Protection knows that in an area which has been hit by a flood in Mandra for example - he is delaying, incompletely detained by a handshake, to act to prevent flooding and, in the meantime, after a reasonable period of time, he will be entitled to a new flood, he will be entitled to invoke emergencies while he is due to his own disaster and the emergency. Will there be an exceptional need simply to violate the principles of transparency or open competition or to amend a contract? Minister, I warn you that you must fear such arrangements and remember that I referred to the parliamentary committee in the case of the transfer of Korydalus prisons. As a contracting authority you may give a contractor - a private study, supervision, construction of the project, prison equipment, plus some services. The award in 4412 is made on the basis of the so-called ‘employer exchange’. In other words, the person who undertakes by self-financing - in particular by self-financing - to carry out the task of transferring the Korydallus judiciary, wants a 'employer exchange'. What and what services? If, for example, he exploits the canisters to have revenues from them, it is a different subject category than, say, having custody. Can guarding be one of the responsibilities to be delegated? You say in your wording in the relevant article, in 185, "with the exception of services belonging to the hard core of the state". And while you committed yourself to bringing in a provision that you will define what it is that cannot be an 'employer', so far you have not done it. I hope you do it at the end. Mr President, I should like to close with one comment on 'confidential expenditure'. In the explanatory memorandum on the relevant article, please invoke Law 3566, which introduced the confidential expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But while you refer to the similar provision of Law 3566, you do not regulate anything respectively for the Secretary-General of Civil Protection. A secret envelope to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when more than EUR 25 000 is required by the service to send the relevant documents of the expenditure to the House. Under the responsibility of the Vice-President or of the President of the Parliament, a consultation shall take place to check the file and shall be returned to the relevant department, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Why don't you anticipate it for yourself? So without rules, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection decides that, because of the issue of protecting the lives of citizens, or of order and security, it will make a 'confidential expenditure'? And is there no elementary control for his decisions? As long as Parliament has a supervisory role! As you know, the supervisory role of Parliament, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, is not subject to any rule of publicity. Nobody knows anything. Minister, serious problems arise in your bill. I invite you to give solutions. We are making concrete proposals to you. I believe that if you accept them, they will also be better for the organisation and functioning of the Civil Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the Members of Parliament, Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis and Mr Catherine Monument, are requesting a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u180	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mr Dionysios Apepi has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, looking at the issues under discussion in this draft law, it is clear and self-evident to all of us that today's processing is imperative, given the events with which our country is often confronted. Finally, the question arises about the opposition: did the law have to change, yes or no? If the law had to change, then why didn't it change in four and a half years? If you didn't have time and wanted to change him, what's the proposal? I've been in the Chamber since this morning. The SYRIZA rapporteur has also spoken with other members, but a proposal has not been tabled as to what was different or what had to be done. The institutional framework, which has been in place since 2002, has shown that this is an anachronistic and incomplete context, not able to respond to the current threats and the new data arising from the uncontrolled criminal crisis, which, instead of giving rapid and effective solutions to emergencies, creates confusion and lack of necessary coordination. In particular, the main aspects of the existing framework that reveal the system's pathogen include: Firstly, the lack of a uniform national vertical risk management mechanism, secondly, the fragmentation and duplication of responsibilities between civil protection bodies at central, regional and local level, thirdly, the lack of cooperation of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection with the research and scientific community. More importantly, it seems - fourthly - the lack of risk analysis procedures and the lack of a national risk and threat database with time and local determinations. Fifthly, they consist of the lack of a regulatory framework for the operational involvement of volunteers in such actions. Sixth, thorny is so far the issue of the impossibility of the timely execution of the necessary projects to prevent and restore due to the dreadful institutional licensing framework. This draft law seeks to overcome the abovementioned weaknesses of the system, notably by establishing the national crisis management and risk management mechanism, with a view to creating a single holistic vertical organisation civil protection system that is generally run by specific statutory authorities and relates to the whole range of disasters. It seems very important to create coordination structures and instruments at central, regional and local level, with clear responsibilities for operators, in order to eliminate, among other things, the frequent dismantling of responsibilities, shorten time-consuming procedures and eliminate red tape. Furthermore, the introduction of a situation of special mobilisation of civil protection, the Fast track system, in urgent cases, will at last absorb funds and will show savings in innumerable cases, simplifying and speeding up procedures. Equally important is the establishment of a national database of hazards, losses and disasters, with a view to effectively specificising the projects according to the risk, which varies by region and by period. We cannot say that this draft law creates the appropriate tools for exploiting scientific knowledge, research and modern technology that we so much need, and ensures the administrative and operational upgrading of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, with a view to its timely and effective action. Finally, it is noteworthy that the draft law on the decisive action of the volunteers. Their best operational exploitation is now ensured and their safer operational involvement and action is ensured. I think it is appropriate for me to refer to my island in Zakynthos as well. As we all know, the inhabitants of Zakynthos have been faced several times with serious natural phenomena, such as the interdependent strong earthquakes, floods, but also with innumerable fires due to the dense vegetation of the island. Zakynthos has also been faced several times with the inability to deal effectively with such situations, both due to a lack of equipment and the necessary bureaucratic permits, which only aim to delay the necessary projects aimed at preventing and responding to the incidents. I therefore believe that it is one of those islands that will benefit greatly from the new draft legislation under discussion to ensure the greatest possible protection for its inhabitants who suffer each year. It is my duty at this point to mention the important action taken by the voluntary groups in my own country, particularly in the field of prevention. I also think that time has come for us to become a reality for the establishment of a seismological centre in Zakynthos, which will be a research centre for the rich seismic activity throughout the whole of the Ionian Sea. It will not record the seismic vibrations - it is done by the Geodynamic Institute - but it will monitor the precursor seismic phenomena. I believe, Minister, that the time has come to act what the people of the island have been asking for for for years and the whole Ionian region. Moving on to the bill, particularly important is the provision of this bill, on the reorganisation and modernisation of the services of the Fire Corps, a civil protection body that enjoys the appreciation of all of us. The variability of climatic conditions and a growing trend in the occurrence of new phenomena make its vertical and overall upgrading imperative both administrative and service. The draft law under discussion seeks to address the existing malfunctions of the Firehouse by restructuring the organisational structures, decentralising responsibilities in regional administrations, operating two branches of staff, with the best use of personnel in the light of scientific training, but also by establishing an innovative, worthwhile and improper staff evaluation system. In addition, the necessary lifelong training of fire-fighting officials is now prioritised by the establishment of relevant schools at each stage of development. Finally, through the new transfer regulation, pathogens are cured in favour of all firearms employees for a more rational and beneficial distribution of personnel and their complicity from the current customer-private relationships. In conclusion, I would like to remind all of us that the protection of citizens, the legitimate property of life, health, property, the natural environment and cultural heritage against all dangers and possible threats is an unnecessarily high priority and strategic choice of the government and that this is evident through this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Mrs Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy. Some colleagues are on the pre-review committee and are not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I will speak and then I will go to the pre-inquiry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u184	Immediately after Mrs. Papadimitriou. Mrs Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, a point on which I believe we all agree is that climate change and its effects on the whole economy and the natural environment are now scientifically unshakable. The extreme weather phenomena, storms, floods, heat waves, an increase in temperature as a direct effect of climate change have devastating effects such as the whole planet in Greece. The temperature increase, the floods, the fires endanger the unique natural environment and the cultural heritage of our country, but mainly endanger human lives. All of this makes the existence of a modern and functional civil protection mechanism more necessary than ever, which will be able to effectively address the threat of extreme natural phenomena and protect the lives and property of our fellow citizens as well as the natural and cultural wealth of our country. It is true that so far there has been no adequate mechanism, as well as civil protection has suffered from the well-known diseases of the wider public sector: anachronistic institutional framework, scattered provisions and pluralism, fragmentation and conflict of competence at all levels, co-responsibility, parallel responsibilities, parallel responsibilities. The result? No one in charge. The lack of coordination between the bodies involved, the delays in taking critical decisions and the decay of responsibility has resulted in several cases in the past, culminating in the national tragedies in Mandra and Matty, which have deeply shocked all Greek society and in which I would not like to make any further reference. The New Democracy was already electorally committed to reforming and modernising the civil protection system fully. It is doing this today with the innovative and ambitious bill of the Ministry of Civil Protection. The main section of the bill is that it establishes the national crisis management and risk management mechanism, creating a single civil protection system capable of responding in timely and efficiently to any emergency situation. The key to the success of the mechanism is its vertical structure, in which the responsibilities and tasks of all stakeholders are fully clarified. It is described in detail who does what, when it does and of course who is responsible for any action or omission. The structure includes a central coordinator, thirteen regional coordinators and thirteen regional coordination centres. Their clear and distinct competences ensure a rapid response and speed in decision-making. At the same time, and at the level of prevention, the national database of hazards, threats and disasters shall be established, a record of existing risks and threats in accordance with the operational national civil protection planning. It also provides for the setting-up of the Risk Assessment Committee, which may characterise as urgent and immediate implementation projects or work of a preventive nature, in order to mitigate possible disasters and act on the wise phrase "Prevention saves lives". However, since the first and decisive role for the success of any civil protection mechanism is played by the human factor, it is important to focus on the forecasts for civil protection's inspiring potential, first of all, for volunteers. In this bill civil protection volunteering is upgraded, including volunteer training and categorisation into organisations. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to an important programme carried out in Pieria, in my constituency, the 'I'm giving a day out of my life in the woods' where volunteers of the voluntary 'My place' action team have been manning a firehouse and carrying out firearms, in consultation with the Fire Service. The most important aspect of the bill, however, is the restructuring of the Firehouse, the House, which, by self-sacrificing and self-determination, is the basic tool of civil protection in our home country, those people who risk daily through adverse and dangerous conditions of physical integrity and many times even their own life, to save our fellow citizens and to protect public and private property. The bill provides for the establishment of a National School of Risk Management, which is structured in the Academy of Firefighting, the Academy of Civil Protection and the Centre of Special Training, and the School of Firefighters is made maximum, thus bringing to the Greek society an excellent, theoretical and professional staffing potential. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill for lack of coordination was criticised. But are you really talking about lack of coordination when you couldn't even operate 112? The bill was also criticised for violating the selfishness of local government bodies. Article 102, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations, in two respects, says that by law it determines what local affairs will be like and how the distribution will be made to local government agencies and, furthermore, that the local government belongs to administrative and financial self-sufficiency. No relationship, that is to say, with your argument. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the fire services in my country, Pierre, which are responsible for numerous tasks and cover a large area of road responsibility, including the Platamona-Tembon tunnels, where we all know how difficult it is to provide fire aid in a tunnel of five and six kilometres. The most important thing, however, is that they also have responsibility for the wider region, for the Pieria Mountains, but mainly for Olympus, where, due to the incredible visitability, there are very often mountain accidents, which naturally have to be assisted by officials from the local fire service. But above all Olympus is a global natural monument of eternal beauty, with unique flora and fauna in the world. It is the Parthenon of the North, but at the same time in the event of fire it is also extremely difficult and difficult mountains, and that is why we must be prepared accordingly. For these reasons, Minister, and Mr Secretary-General, I would like you to consider the possibility of upgrading these two critical areas and the country of fire services. I conclude by pointing out that the bill was universally accepted by almost all the stakeholders, but it also received positive comments from the former European Commissioner, Mr Christos Stylianides. I would therefore like to congratulate both the Minister responsible and the Secretary-General for this legislation, which will certainly be part of civil protection in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. And from the beautiful Pierria to the beautiful Argolida, Mr. Ioannis Gioula from SYRIZA, and then we will come back to Athens, Mrs. Vultesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u187	Between the north and the south we are discussing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u188	No, she doesn't have that, north and south, we're all Greek, we're a family. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, by means of the draft resolution, the Government claims that it will achieve the restructuring of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and the reorganisation of the Fire Corps through the creation of a National Mechanism for the Management of Crisis and Risks that will ensure the human life and property of the citizens, and that it will prioritise the country's natural wealth and cultural heritage. Researcher, therefore, is whether the promoted legislation is able to achieve it through the promising as a modern, flexible and effective National Crisis Management and Risk Management Mechanism. Firstly, this draft law introduces a great deal of regulations that modifies the existing responsibilities in these structures and services of the state and the administration, but it is very confusing on them. It is difficult to understand the structure and administrative relationship between the national mechanism to be established and the current General Secretariat for Civil Protection. It seems that structures are again being created with over-concentration of responsibilities, with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection resembling a ministries, but that it is, in the word of the draft you have tabled, an operational structure of the national mechanism. In any case, the powers of both party and of both party do not clearly arise from the main or transitional provisions of the draft law. Secondly, derogations from the existing environmental legislation - most serious - are introduced in the name of a legislation that is allegedly in line with the protection of this constitutionally fixed legal good. This window is opened by the Committee established for risk assessment, which can properly characterise alleged preventive projects as a direct implementation, but derogating from the existing provisions. And we're talking about a sensitive space like that of the natural environment. The interpretation in the explanatory statement, that this does not conflict with the Constitution, cannot convince you of your alleged intentions. The same outrageous thing, however, is the one pretended by your party, the Coupling, ignorance that the institution of environmental licensing is a protectionist institution for the environment. This is how the Community's environmental licensing legislation, which is a pillar for environmental protection and to prevent adverse effects from human activities and infrastructures, as well as the extreme weather phenomena, climate change and the dangers of technological innovation, are being addressed. This, as well as the risk of climate change in recent days tending to turn into a crisis, the New Democracy Government must take this seriously before it is too late. But what examples of writing has he given to date and what do you choose to institutionalize, ladies and gentlemen? You are creating for such a sensitive and critical national issue of secret funds or a small NSRF, as was rightly mentioned in the press, and we all know what dispersion and what 'part' is being done and followed by the secret funds. Is there provision for a special appropriation to be entered in the budget of the General Secretariat, following a decision of the Secretary-General himself, and you say that this unrelenting and irrevocable decision of a single body will ensure national interests and ensure impartiality? Only suspicions of opacity and agreements under the table cause. As for the legislation relating to the operation of firefighting, I have the following to say. It is proposed that the long history of the Fire Academy be a member of a new legal person, the National Crisis Management and Destruction School to be set up. What will the administrative incorporation of the school to be set up and why the interdependence of the two to be a guarantee of better functioning of the firefighting? The administrative mechanism can only be heavier with such proposals. On the contrary, there is no provision in your bill to cover the required organic positions in the Firehouse, which would also ensure the good functioning and preparedness of the House, which has so far shown itself to be worthwhile and able to do its duty and work. Another point I would like to note, indicative of your different perception of things, is whether or not depreciation, or flatteration against the institution of volunteering. By granting power to civil protection for the possibility of deletion of voluntary organisations which, on the contrary, should be rewarded and trained with excellence to continue to offer - as they have done so far - and at least in this respect, are worthy of praise alone. Finally, as a party and as a previous government, we are in no way ignoring the pathogens and malfunctions of the existing framework and mechanism. We refer to the proposal for a law that we presented in October 2019, which is inspired by a diagnosis of the seriousness of the current risks and challenges and by the urgency of creating a mechanism capable of preventing, being prepared, coordinating, dealing with and restoring. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] And one more extremely critical thing. A state mechanism for civil protection to be effective prerequisites for consultation with the scientific community, which you have not implemented. All of this will be achieved only by a clear description of the responsibilities but also by simplifying and clarifying the conditions and conditions required. Also, an article which, in my view, deserves to be commented on, in 185, which attempts to entrust the administration of prisons to the private sector. Do we, in other words, have the delegation of public authority stemming from the central core of the state to private entrepreneurs? The creation of penalties is part or more appropriately a stage in the administration of justice. It is the execution of the sentence imposed, for the place, manner and conditions for the creation of the state institutions alone, which exercise public justice policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Not a minute, Mr. President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u191	Ultimately, it is not possible for prisons to be a field of private business interests in an entirely public place, namely structures for the exercise of state power, where there is legal limitations on the exercise of individual rights and perhaps even legal violence, which, however, only the responsible state institutions can exercise, not the applause and the purely self-interest financial interests of private operators. The failure of such models hits the alarm, especially what has been implemented in the United States and the United Kingdom, which, unfortunately, must be a model for avoiding and counter-examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, fifty one student and four teachers, from the 1st General School of Trikala. Welcome good progress. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for Mrs Sophia Vultesis from New Democracy and the beautiful Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u194	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, given that the Qualified Opposition has said that it will not vote in favour of the bill, let me begin with a few general considerations. What is happening, first of all, is the greatest enemy and the greatest risk that a government, who wants to work, is oblivion, oblivion caused by time, even by relatively recent events. This is the basic principle of propaganda. Now, what do we have here in general? We have SYRIZA, who, when he has to apologize for his mistakes and failures and his actions leading to terrible problems in the country, represents the little Helen who sits and crys, so and how should I know, a little girl, what would happen if the banks shut down? Yunker blackmailed me. I had to. They forced me to. They put my gun on my head. I retreated and weeped little Ellenica. Once he has to apologise for what he did not do and which led to disastrous consequences, he starts to say that he doesn't do it because he wanted to do something else, he had thought of something else, which he didn't have time to do in four and a half years. All the time here we have a SYRIZA who comes and votes against his own: the hydrocarbons contracts, they were signed by Mr. Tsipras at the official ceremony. They wanted something else after and they didn't vote. Mr Tsipras negotiated these bases. In America he advertised them and said that we cannot do something else without them, which we do not know why it did not happen when he was in America and interviewed Mr Trump, where he did not say a word or even then about our sovereign rights, nor does he vote for it. We have the sanctions. It calls for the implementation of sanctions against Turkey which. It also says that Mr Tsipras secured them in June, while hiding that these were sanctions for Cyprus not for Greece and that they were not sanctions, because the text in particular says that there is an invitation to adopt targeted sanctions and the framework of sanctions was now adopted in November on the Government of the New Democracy. We have football. It starts, you cannot do this, you cannot build two entrepreneurs, you cannot inadmissible compare it to the national issue. Of course, from time to time everyone has forgotten that on SYRIZA they were becoming the same and worse, Mr. Tsipras called the players in Maximos to find out what is happening and Mr. Tsipras voted for a law, voted for an amendment and eventually interrupted the Cup in 2016 and the 2018 Championship. Why did he interrupt it, so if it was so nice and you did everything so nicely? Here comes the migration. You were shouting yesterday - I am not going to put it out because I do not want to waste paper - that the incidents that have been caused solely by the Government of the New Democracy, here, are all the episodes that have taken place in government, and the tide and stabilization that took place on the SYRIZA government and there is here a telegram of the Athenian Agency saying: 'The streets of Pamphis, Lesbos, have been filled with blood.' And all of a sudden, now, because you think they've been forgotten - and that's how it happens, the facts are forgotten - you show that this is happening now, first time events and you're going to do something else. You are shouting for our absence in Berlin - which we all know what was - and in reality the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey without any participation by Greece. Well, look, now, this situation cannot continue, so I can come to the bill, which you say you're not voting on. You're not telling me now, Matty seems to have forgotten. Well, do you remember the public prosecutors' finding about Matty? Do you remember what he said? You remember what the prosecutors said in March 2019, that if he did not blow, with such a lack of organisation, it would happen the same. The same situation would prevail in more simpler incidents: Absolute lack of organization, complete confusional image, no coordination, total inconsistency, spasm management, chaos function is said by the prosecutor. As for the district coordinator's meeting, it's to laugh bitterly, the prosecutor says it's as if it didn't happen. That is to say, it says, the prosecutor writes and it is not possible, there would be nothing important to add to the system of civil protection and that everyone would give orders, no one would watch and that we would have fewer victims even by naughty evacuation. No one knew where who he was. They didn't know what the time was. They didn't know where the fire was. Well, look now, you can't, after all of this, come say, "I don't vote this or I don't vote for it." We are telling you this because you are now presenting a plan which - I beg your pardon, from July 2018 to July 2019, when the elections took place - should have brought it and voted on it. However, Mr. Tsipras, in August 2018, presented it, went to the Ministry of Civil Protection, wondered when he caught up and made a new plan from July 23th that was the disaster by August 9th. Of course it was not a plan, but it was a baptism normally, he took the Secretary-General's name, changed the names and, in fact, the problem was that neither the existing laws nor the current plan nor the "Xenocrates" were applied in the Eye. So it is not possible to come here and say that you would do anything else. After you had the plan, why didn't you vote for it? A whole year had passed, and on 2 May you took it out in the consultation, the bill, which you did not vote on from 2 May to 2 July when the elections were held, i.e. two months. This had an extremely complex structure that was shown on televisions and no one understood anything. I also give for the Minutes - do you want to remember - what the conclusion was about Matty, because now you're coming as honors. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President. So the point is, now, that it is not possible every time an attempt is made to say: 'That is what we have done but it has not gone well. We had that in mind, but we did not vote for it. You came as Opposition now, in November 2019, to make a proposal for a Law on Civil Protection. But it's outrageous. From the fires in Matty, on July 23, 2018, couldn't you do something about it in a year? Are you coming now and telling us that you have a plan and that you can - of course - but that we have to follow the proposal for a law that you brought in two years' delay? That way we're not going anywhere. I am giving the Minutes - and I would like to thank you, Mr President - all the relevant publications, a catapult by the prosecutors for the chaos that prevailed in Matti. So keep these in mind. Know that when a plan is made, it is evident that it can be corrected. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, we cannot keep criticizing when we are accountable. We just need to have a feeling of our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, too. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, my previous colleague has even called into question our right to criticise, - she has spoken four minutes - of every science and referred to facts - true or false - that have always happened in the past in the light of her own party and propaganda. We're on our way. Ladies and gentlemen, the climate crisis is now an element of everyday life internationally and in our country, since more and more intensely outside 'natural normality' weather patterns lead to major natural disasters. As a result, they also lead to very great damage to natural wealth, cultural heritage, infrastructure and, of course, to the loss of human life, animals and property. It seems that these consequences will be exacerbated over the next few years. Of course, such catastrophes exist because of anthropogenic causes associated with fires and other phenomena. It is therefore imperative that the state should be shielded at all levels of administration by creating a modern, comprehensive, flexible and effective mechanism to deal with such severe destructive phenomena. In this respect, it is necessary to revise the existing institutional framework and radical reform of the Civil Protection in order to converging its effective, operational and support structures. Responsibilities and duties must be made very clear at all levels of administration, so that there are no overlap and do not lead to chaotic situations when they occur or when phenomena occur. It is necessary to clarify the decision-making process and take action at a strategic, operational and regular level and to combat bureaucracy. Unfortunately, the current draft law does not contribute in this direction. Obstacles are created in Civil Protection, rather than facilitating its operation and thus making it more effective in dealing with extreme weather and natural disasters. The institutional functions of civil protection that were launched in the SYRIZA government are modified, and new ones are not linked to the policies and plans that the country already has at national and regional level. This concerns, for example, regional climate change adaptation plans, flood risk management plans and the already legislated forest fire prevention plan. The Secretary-General for Civil Protection shall be responsible for the level of Minister and Region. Politics ceases to be self-determination, and the Fire Corps has two responsibilities for fire extinguishing and rescuing on land in contrast to the Civil Protection, which has nineteen and the autonomy of the Firehouse which was until now one of the two Security Bodies of the Ministry of Civil Protection along with the Port of course. All the problematic provisions of the existing legal framework are reproduced, since the unauthorised services appear unconnected to each other and take decisions at many levels. Participation of the municipalities or not anticipated is degraded. The municipalities, as has been said, are the first blockade in the field of civil protection. There are no emergency functions for municipalities and co-ordination centres at municipal level. Responsibilities of regional coordinator shall be entrusted to a retired regional official. This single representative body will direct the civil protection structures of the municipalities. And I wonder how will crisis management and crisis management policies continue? In addition, evidence of the malfunction that will arise is the creation of several structures and multi-member structures, therefore, and of stiff organs with parallel or identical responsibilities, such as the operation of the new crisis management study centre. Under Article 36, the National Coordinating Centre for Risks and Risk Management is established as a special agency of the Firehouse and not of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, as it should be, since the Firehouse is one of the components of civil protection supervised by the Secretary-General for Civil Protection. Civil protection has wider competences. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to emphasise a provision concerning the 'national' secret expenditure as referred to in the bill, which is considered to be directly or indirectly related to, or indirectly related to, the security of, the uninterrupted functionality of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection in the context of the fulfilment of its mission, as specifically specified in the protection of the life of the citizens' property, the preservation of the natural environment, the defence of which is at the level of safeguarding national interests. The question is: why are secret, confidential funds - credits - managed by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection to meet these needs? Is this a national need? In fact, the Scientific Service of the Parliament disputes directly by asking for the provision to be completed in order to comply with the provisions of Law 3556/2007. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA had been tabled by the parliamentary group in the proposal for a law on effective reorganisation of civil protection. Unfortunately, political developments did not allow the proposal for a law to be discussed and voted on by the House. This proposal for a law was the subject of a substantial consultation and cooperation of the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and the scientific community. It provided for the creation of a National Civil Protection Authority, and the effective exploitation of existing organisational structures at local level, identifying the roles each will have and thus creating a coherent civil protection system. At the same time, it explicitly provided for the strengthening of structures in staff and resources, and that these are the main coordination bodies, so that no coordination gaps are created.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u198	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u201	Our proposal intended instead of steadfast committees that are difficult to meet at the time of the crisis, emergency coordination centres from service providers at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, of course, the bills that are being passed are judged in practice as one of the coup d'état colleagues said. But that does not mean that it cannot and should not be criticised by the opposition. That's what we do for ourselves. We do not question the need to revise the institutional framework for Civil Protection. We question its content and the potential that you expect it to become effective, operational and ultimately to prevent, coordinate and lead to positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, too. Mr. Theophilos Leonaridis has the floor from the New Democracy and the beautiful Prefecture of Serres. I shall then give the floor to Mr Lappa, who has come astonished by the Committee of Inquiry. Then Mr. Villardos, Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill proposed to the vote by the Ministry of Civil Protection is trying to put a delicate and critical political issue on solid foundations, which is no longer a political issue of civil protection. This need came because of climate change and other emerging threats that affect all countries without exception but in a non-formal way. Several scientific studies on climate change show that its impact on the Mediterranean countries will be comparatively stronger, with serious economic effects, on employment, on growth, on incomes, on agriculture, on tourism, on the spread of diseases, on productivity, on migratory waves, on mortality and on other sectors. A recent example of the current climate change in Greece is the floods in West Attica in 2017, which showed not only the size of the problem but also the lack of the state mechanism. Another case of state inertia and non-coordination of the competent authorities is the fires in Eye and the tragic consequences with the victims we have mourned. Therefore, the possibility of anticipating and suppressing these risks that are substantially threatening human life and property is intensified by coordinated state actions. The primary civil protection system is unable to offer sufficient solutions in this direction because of its antiquated nature and its significant deficiencies. In the light of these circumstances, the draft law defines the establishment of the National Risk Management and Risk Management Mechanism supervised by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and distinguished for its single character and its vertical organisation. Within this institutional framework, the General Secretariat for Civil Protection has a prominent role and further improves its responsibilities so that it can cope with any emergency situations caused by natural or technological disasters and threats in good time. At the same time, the supportive and operational structures of the national mechanism are clearly defined and the structural restructuring of the Firehouse is attempted so that it is more effective in its operation while at the same time fulfilling its operational role in the exercise of civil protection. Indicatively, just to mention that the Firehouse is now part of the building of the National Crisis Management and Management School of Risks so as to acquire legal personality and thus become a body for the use of resources and partnerships at national and supranational level, while at the same time the Firefighting School of the Academy is being supreme. The most important interventions for changes to this draft law in the area of civil protection are as follows. A national plan for civil protection of three years shall be established, drawn up at national and regional level. First, the emergency management frameworks for which the national mechanism is operationally and functionally supported shall be specified. Secondly, the coordinating civil protection bodies. The existing civil protection coordination body as the highest operational body and the regional bodies and local coordination bodies, respectively. Thirteen regional operational civil protection centres are recommended and their responsibilities are defined and how they should be organised and operated. The support services of the national mechanism and their responsibilities shall be clearly identified, the manner and the staffing process. Provision is made for the establishment in the national mechanism of a national database of risks, threats and losses, at national level. The general planning for emergency response and impact management and other actions shall be carried out and implemented. Also, other important provisions appearing in this bill are the redefinition of the responsibilities of the Citizens' Counsellor as a national mechanism to investigate arbitrariness in the officials of the Greek Police, the Port Authority, the Hellenic Coast Guard, the Firehouse and the employees of detention stores. The draft law also upgrades the voluntary dimension of civil protection. Volunteers' activation is a key issue on the government's political agenda, and volunteer participation in the exercise of civil protection can only be of added value. Unfortunately, Greece was also a reality in this area of public policy. The training of civil protection volunteers is of paramount importance, which is prerequisite for obtaining and maintaining the status of civil protection volunteer and is provided by the School of Volunteers and Volunteers of the Academy of Civil Protection. There is a clear categorisation of voluntary organisations according to possibilities of assistance and support to state bodies. A clear procedure and conditions for mobilisation and operational involvement of volunteers shall be laid down. Arrangements allowing aid to materials and instruments of voluntary organisations shall be introduced. In conclusion, the overall assessment of the bill could only be positive and its contribution is triple. First of all, the Government of the New Democrat Republic strongly shields the constitutionally established goods of life, health, property, the protection of the natural environment and cultural heritage against any threat and possible threat. This option is an unnecessarily high priority of the present government, because it always helps to develop and promote citizens. Secondly, it is attempting to decentralise the management of natural and other disasters with the spearhead of the thirteen regional civil protection centres and the respective services of the municipalities. And thirdly, the spirit of volunteering is being strengthened in our country, through the provision of quality civil protection services by citizens themselves, volunteers, for citizens. Finally, I would like to make a point about the five-year obligation firefighters, Mr Minister, from the city-based city, unless he wishes to do so. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the rapid increase in the movement of people and goods in the national provincial network of the Serres Prefecture, in the last decade, with the two main roads of the Ennatian road - vertical axis, which is a portal with the Balkans and the Egnatia road to the south - the important gas transmission hub - passes through the county of all the pipelines by the east - the huge forest volume, with the huge space of responsibility due to distances, makes the need to upgrade the fire service in the county. The data have changed and it is necessary to take all necessary measures to ensure that the services of the firefighting industry are effective for the safety of forest wealth and of the citizen. We propose that Serres Fire Service upgrade to Class I Firehouse, with Nigrita Fire Scale being administratively owned by it and the financing of a new building on an existing plot of the Firehouse, the upgrading of the Ferrokastro Fire Stage to Class IV Fire Stage with the Ano Poros Fire Climb under its command and the upgrading of the Fire Climbs at Class IV Fire Stage with the New Zichnis Fire Climb to be administratively owned by it. Also, the establishment of a national stadium fire extinguisher, on the Egnatia street, at the New Corfu node. I believe that in addition to the major institutional changes made by this bill, we must also bend to these individual issues, because, as I said before, the data have changed, to protect the environment and citizens from potential disasters by climate change and other threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u204	Thank you. Mr. Lappas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President, and also for the transfer of my line because of the pre-request committee. Minister, many times I have addressed the relevant ministers of justice and have told them that Mr Tsiaras is elected to Karditsa, and Mr Kranis has been President of the Carditsa Primary Council for years. And while I was saying that this is only the case with the Ministry of Justice, today I have a minister against me, who for many years has been in Carditsa a senior state official as a prefect. I am very pleased about that, which Cardinal is now being beamed into a multitude of ministries. But, Minister, I have serious objections to an area of your bill, to Articles 183 and 187, concerning anti-crime policy. You know very well that the first thing the New Democracy Government has done since the first day of government change on July 8th was with the BC. 81 decides to transfer the penitentiary policy as a whole from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection. It was something unprecedented. This is not the case in the jurisprudence, both Greek and European, that is to say, the creation of sentences not to the Ministry of Justice but to the Ministry of Security. While they understood this at the Ministry of Justice, the Minister was forced to make three concessions and return the services of juvenile caretakers, the protection of minors and forensics. Why? Because it is not provided for in anti-crime conferences in Europe. Greece will now be represented by the Ministry of Civil Protection. It is something which breaks down a great legal tradition of our legal culture, both in our country and in Europe, and I would point it out. The Presidential Decree, in essence, posed a fundamental question which touches on and possesses societies from the first human societies. Security or justice, security or freedom. Look at you, Minister, the question of security or freedom, and the question of security or justice is molded, false and invincible. Because there must not be dilemmas and doubles, that is to say, either one or the other, such as justice or a mess, legality or anarchy, security or freedom. I shall use a phrase by Benjamin Franklin, which said that 'anyone who separates freedom from security cannot understand one another'. So these are not separated. A prerequisite for security is freedom, i.e. the legal way of dealing with and perception and feeling of security. That's how it should be. Of course, this big issue, the dual issue, has been answered by the great teacher of legal science, Ioannis Manoledakis, but also by many other legal persons who have answered this question and have clearly advocated freedom. Because you know after the great slaughterhouse of World War II, after '50, all the legal classes that wanted to be the core of the rule of law were the provisions on the protection of individual rights, namely freedom. But that does not mean that we do not care about safety. It's another chapter. Minister, you know the system of criminal justice very well because you are legal, I see here and Mr Ploris and other legal colleagues. We all know that the three pillars of the justice system are known: the main criminal law, the penal code, the procedure which safeguards the rights of the defendant mainly and secondaryly the other factors in the criminal trial, and the third the creation of penalties, the penitentiary policy. So imagine, in this justice system, that we remove a key pillar in the extradition of the sentence, provisions on the creation of a penalty, the Penitentiary Code and the penitentiary policy, in fact, to transfer it to an area outside the Justice Ministry, so that we can answer that now the creation of sentences is not a question of justice, but of security, and indeed restrictive and exclusive. It is something that I think we will find before us as a country, as a rule of law and as a favoured state. You will find it in front of you, because the Ministry of Justice has another culture, other know-how and other general knowledge, about how to train the prisoner and how to manage the issue of the creation of sentences. The Citizen's Department must reach the arrest. In addition to arrest, the Ministry of Justice is responsible. It'll do well to organize the most modern methods of monitoring, exploiting, arresting criminals. Cut. Since the criminal is arrested, he is now in charge - and Mr Ploris knows - the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely the Ministry of Justice. This is a violation and we will find it before us in the institutions and in the European and international spheres. Hold it. We were also telling the Justice Ministers - you will now hear it, but the Justice Ministers had to listen to it - in all legislations after government change, there is an obsessed nomadic law to raise the law of the supreme good, replacing the concept of law and justice. It's not like that. That's why I told you about the doubles. They dominate duplications and dilemmas, such as security or freedom, justice or anarchy, etc. If one follows the history of the development of legal science, one will see that, in those countries, Ministers, Prime Ministers, Presidents of States, states, communities of States have put such dilemmas in history, they have finally contributed to the birth of monsters, which have broken up not only the societies but also those who have put the dilemmas. Read Manoledakis' wonderful book: "Security or Freedom", Mr.Plearis. You, of course, are not with Manoledakis, because Manoledakis is "left", I think it seems in your philosophy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u206	(... not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u207	You're in favor of Androulakis. Of course, I'm in favor of Androulakis, too. It's not like that, I'm in favour of Androsylakis, but I'm not in favour of Manoledakis, who's named after half the legal science universities in Germany and so much in France. It's not like that. We need to see what innovative proposals they have brought to the philosophy of law. Besides, you know, and we lawyers know that the law is not the law. The law is a human creation imperfect, so it's changed, so it's changed, so it's abolished. The law is different. But we all agree that the law is the only one perhaps to find the right. That's what the philosophy of law says at least. Because I am talking about the law now and because we are doing a redesign today and we are talking about anti-criminal policy and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Protection, I must tell you, Mr President, that a redesign must be done, with all as a bright torches one thing: safeguarding and enriching the rule of law. Especially in today's legal and legal complexity for which you hear what the British famous judge, Tom Bingham, said: "In a world divided by various nationalities and cultures, the rule of law is the most important factor in social cohesion, which looks like worldly secular religion." So the rule of law, the theory of rights and the concept of institutions is, in fact, the bright torches that must lead us to everything. With regard to the bill and Article 185, Mr Minister, I would like to say the following. I think that the attempt to introduce privacy in the area of the creation of penalties is a reference to another theory and legal culture in particular of America. But you know there the prisons are completely private and the American Infowar Company dominates the doctrine, which constantly wants many prisoners, because it is a bank, in fact, that wants to testify. What are the statements? The prisoners' heads, because that's all they're making a profit. If you don't testify to a bank, you won't get a profit. But we shouldn't see it that way. Our Greek law-enforcement culture touches, approaches, touches and resembles European law-enforcement culture that has nothing to do with that logic, that is to say we want more prisoners to win the private. This is outside of us and away from the Greek jurisprudence system and it must be something that we will be abstract and not approaching and embrace. I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. Minister, we have asked a question or rather three questions to your State Secretary, Mr Economou, and we have asked to give us the conclusion of the Committee of Experts on the relocation of Korydalou prisons. He replied that it was a military secret and at the same time today you tell us that this will be in the hands of individuals. What secret is this, since individuals will take care of maintenance, creation, and other responsibilities relating to penitentiary policy? So tell your State Secretary that, at least, Parliament's control does not have any secrets, especially of a military nature. Because when you say that you are building a prison and transferring to the private sector large from the maintenance that would be undertaken respectively by the CCTB, the building infrastructure, that is, to tell us that it is a military secret. Something else is going on. We are waiting, however, and this is the fifth question we have asked and you are not answering us. And I'm closing, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u208	Three times you said you were closing, Mr. Lappa. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u209	I'm closing, Mr. President. With Article 185, Mr Minister, we have great objections. We do not agree with the involvement of individuals in the area of the creation of sentences and prisons. This does not lie in our rightful system and the rightful civilization. I also have a very strong objection to Article 187 for the consultant. You say over 30 million the consultant with direct assignments without an environmental impact study, etc. In fact, you refer to some provisions for a scholar's reward. It's 135,000 with the second and 210,000 with the third of Law 4412. I'm closing, Mr. President. If the state wants to hear its own advisory bodies from the Constitution, such as the National Committee on Human Rights, it quickly decides to return the entire penitentiary policy to the Ministry of Justice, because the creation of penalties is never a security issue in any country in Europe, but only a matter of justice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. Please, however, it is a pity that Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Manolakus speak at 1,000 minutes at night. Everything you do is at the expense of colleagues. Follow the Rules of Procedure. There was a whole matter this morning on the Rules of Procedure. We ask people out to keep laws and regulations and do not apply them here. You can't do that. The last three guys got away ten minutes, so we're going nine minutes longer. I mean, one speaker is minus. The parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor. The President of the Greek Solution used 12 minutes. So with your tritology you have nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the personal view from acquired speed as well as a hypothetical and opportune scenario, as regards his statement on co-existence in the Aegean, was publicly confessed by the Deputy National Security of the Prime Minister shortly after the President of the Greek Solution denounced it in the House. What else are we going to hear from this government? Today's bill now seems to aim to improve our country's fire-fighting capacity in the wake of the murderous fire in Matti or the destructive fires in Evia last summer. Like all the bills brought by the government, however, this is an impression rather than a substance, since nothing has changed for the best in Greece. The memorials remain, also the surpluses, the'red private debt' continues to rise, the houses of the Greeks will be seized by the urgent procedure from the beginning of May, as Mr Georgiadis stressed, even those of the Katseli Act - I will table it in the Minutes - the Treaty of Ambassadors not only has not been cancelled but is only observed by Greece and so much more. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the contrary, certain situations have changed to the worst, especially as regards immigration, which is, in fact, the settlement of our country, as well as Turkey's attitude which, among other things, uses illegal immigrants as a weapon to weaken our defence. In this regard, the government is not even taught by the painful experiences of other states, such as Sweden, as regards mass immigration, which has caused an explosive rise in crime, almost daily bombings, even in Stockholm, car arson, which have already started in Athens, fighting gangs of foreigners, who have already started in Thessaloniki, rape women, murder and much more. For migratory chaos in Sweden I will present an article from the BBC, from the recent November, in the Minutes, hoping that the Greeks will understand what will happen after a few months, if the government continues to deal with draft papers, such as bills, when what is required is acts. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the only solution that exists and we believe, unfortunately, the last one is the declaration of Greece in an emergency in accordance with the rules of the UN and of the European Union. The government must also stop humiliating the Greeks internationally, as with the lies in relation to the Turkish ship which illegally invaded our territorial waters and remained for many hours without any real reaction on our part. This is a fact which, in my view, is equivalent to the definition of rajadism. Continuing, today's draft law, which, along with its supporting documents, goes beyond seven hundred pages - where its main guidelines are seen in the document of the Civil Protection Secretariat, which I will also submit in the Minutes - contains heavy words such as: excellence, crisis management committees, study committees in Articles 40 to 42, funds without money, but with administrations, in Article 38, fire training and much more. In fact, however, it is starting to create a gigantic, stiff, bureaucratic, inefficient and multi-educated organization with a multitude of organs, as well as with unjustified superpowers and responsibilities of the Secretary-General of Civil Protection instead of the Minister, unprecedented in the history of public administration, with the structural structure of a super-minister within the Ministry of Civil Protection. For the first time, it is planned to have a General Secretariat of the Office for Refugees in accordance with Article 53 of the bill. Instead of planning a vertical form of organization, through which the effective and rapid response to crises is achieved globally, or the completion of action plans under the leadership of a senior military officer who will be chosen with no party criteria and who will have political leadership over the respective Minister for Civil Protection, the government is literally creating an abortion, such as the state that has so far offered absolutely nothing to do with Greece. Further to substantiate that destruction in Matti, like many others, has not been done because of the absence of laws but because of their non-implementation or misimplementation, we will mention a few points from a finding, in writing the first page of a relevant newspaper publication. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First, there was no evacuation warning as provided for in Article 114 of L.4240 since 2014. Secondly, there was no planned air surveillance and firefighting and, thirdly, as regards the prevention of traffic, Article 4 in paragraph 1 of the Joint Ministerial Decision 12030, which regulates the issues of cooperation between the Firefighting Body and the Armed Forces and the Greek Police. Laws, then, simply do not apply. We still have to deal with a very important issue in connection with the possibility of dealing with fires with funding. In this respect, it has been mentioned many times that the budget for fire-fighting and more generally for civil protection has been excessively reduced in the years of monuments such as, unfortunately, the defence budget, which has been irresponsiblely accepted and without objection by all our sixth governments. I would remind you that Turkey had exempted defence expenditure in 2001 when it went bankrupt. In particular, of the approximately 500 million in 2009, shortly after the fires of Elijah that we should not forget, the budget was reduced to EUR 379 million in 2017, which is confirmed by reports from the 2011 and 2018 accounts, as well as from the 2019 and 2020 budgets that we will also submit in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this context, if the budget does not increase, there will be no improvement in any bills even if they are tabled, let alone when there are many shortcomings, where according to other reports we will also submit in the Minutes in 2019 of the three thousand ninety-four vehicles over the age of 20, while there are not enough spare parts, tires, uniforms and much more. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned publication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the supply of equipment has an additional development dimension, since investments can increase GDP, government revenue and employment, while Greece has private companies that are able to build water supplies, for example, which it has done in the past and ELVO before being driven by incapable governments into liquidation. Lacks are also found in the air fire-fighting equipment, where the "CADAIR" is of high age, with only tens of eighteen ready, and it is said that planes most likely bought at dictatorship are still flying. At the same time, helicopters "CHINOK" of the army and rentals are used, although here too there are cuts. As far as the most famous Rescue in the European Union is concerned, there are no more than twenty airplanes in which the two come from Greece, so they cannot cover the whole of Europe especially when there are simultaneous outbreaks. It is noteworthy that Germany has not contributed any aircraft, and we wonder what means the Air Force Service will operate in accordance with Article 86. Finally, Article 77 provides for thirteen thousand two hundred fifty-seven organic fire-fighting positions from ten thousand seventy-seven-three now. There will therefore be an increase that is not quantified by the General Accounting Office of the State, but only some cost of wage adjustment, which we cannot understand but is very often the case. We must note, however, that in Greece accounts for a total of five hundred and eighty-four inhabitants per firefighter and fourteen firefighters per 100 square kilometres, as we will present in the minutes compared to all other states, a relatively low proportion mainly due to the increased risk of fires and the low number of volunteer firefighters in our country, when in other European Union countries there are many municipal or corporate voluntary fire brigades. Maybe it's something you need to study. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, we support, of course, the efforts to improve fire protection, but not with such a sloppy attitude, which will create new problems rather than resolve the existing ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, too. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in history climate change is one of the three challenges of the global economy. This is what the latest World Economic Forum report, which speaks not only of change but of a serious crisis, points out. This is the result of international scientific studies and environmental organisations. Even the UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres, recently told Davos that humanity declared war against nature and now nature returns the blow in a very violent way. The global community is concerned and youth is mobilised, requires short- and long-term solutions and calls for the immediate integration of the environmental dimension into any human activity. So today we are faced with extreme weather phenomena which have a detrimental effect on public infrastructure and property, but also a significant cost to human lives and disabilities. At the same time, significant and irreversible damage to the environment is recorded due to human activity. The case of huge and uncontrolled fires in Australia is indicative. At the same time, powerful states and large businesses refuse to adapt, often refuse to admit climate change and its consequences. The withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement creates global questions, as well as the recent statement by President Trump who described prophets of the misery of those who speak of climate change. In addition, the aphathia of the dominant international economic model has resulted in the drastic exhaustion of natural resources, the loss of biodiversity and the collapse of ecosystems. Therefore, today we are called upon to implement environmental policies aimed at bailing the planet and by extension of our societies, to design policies for the management of natural and environmental disasters that, in particular, integrate prevention and secondary response. So in view of the global situation Greece needs a modern and effective civil protection system. It is clear that our country is experiencing many consequences for climate change and the existing system is unable to meet ever-increasing requirements. This became more evident with the tragedies in Mandra, Eye, Halkidiki, Evia and elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, civil protection is a matter for all of us, for all of our services and private and public sector bodies and for all citizens and for a modern civil protection system, and it requires that actions be coordinated well through robust decision-making procedures while at the same time eliminating bureaucracy. For this reason, SYRIZA tabled a proposal for a law aimed at reforming the National Civil Protection System and establishing a national authority. This proposal was a product of multi-month processing in cooperation with the previous leadership and services of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, and the guidelines for international organisations and proposals for co-responsibility and self-government were taken into account. You turned it down. You did not use it, although it incorporated the recent scientific documentation and complied with international and European standards. The plan you are tabling is a demonic cove full of cuffs and ambiguities. Solutions and effective management tools are sought, ladies and gentlemen, as are the citizens who are increasingly faced with extreme phenomena but also with a state mechanism that is unable to respond. Legislative confusion is reflected in the fact that in the same bill you are bringing provisions on the volunteering and restructuring of firefighting without a plan and without consultation. For the rest of my speech I will refer to a typical example solely of Article 39 establishing the National School for Crisis and Risk Management, which includes the Firehouse, the Academy of Civil Protection and the Centre for Special Education. I note that the operation of the Fire Academy continues to be governed by a very old presidential decree of 1983 and by the regulation it is the supremacy, design and implement of interdimensional postgraduate courses in cooperation with the AIFs of the country or the foreign state, which then enables the award of titles to officers of both the Firehouse and the Security Bodies and the Armed Forces and individuals. You are therefore setting up a school outside universities which will grant postgraduate qualifications in cooperation with universities, an exemption scheme with foreign procedures in academic practice and substance, i.e. the admission procedure, the teaching staff and will grant academic postgraduate qualifications. The formalities used indicate that you have not even bothered to take account of recent changes in higher education, the abolition of TEIs and their merger at universities. The upgrading and degrading of the Fire Academy is denomination and not essential, and the granting of an equivalency without academic guarantees leads to the depreciation and degradation of academic qualifications provided and matched. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have not even bothered to copy the model of the security colleges and academies. What you are looking for is a fast track rated upgrade - superiorization, without academic evaluation procedures as in the case of LEIs, and without selection of staff with the well-known academic criteria. Higher education, after the recent dismantling and equalisation of colleges, cannot withstand additional downgrading of the qualifications. Recently the National Higher Education Authority was passed and established and was appointed yesterday by a recommendation from the Minister of Education and its head. It is therefore the one that is called upon to implement this project, to evaluate and to certify the quality of operation of the institutions and of the schools founded. So we see the government suffering from a serious misappropriation of announcements and acts. We think it is a mistake what you are doing and we call on you to withdraw Rule 39, bring it into broad consultation and dialogue. Do not repeat past mistakes and restore models like the National School of Public Health, which, after many years of operation, has been normalized and joined the University of Western Attica. We also think that you are opening another way, creating schools that do not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Education. A similar will exists from Members of the Dodecanese and the Deputy Minister of Tourism for the establishment of a university of tourism, including the relevant higher schools. You sent us, when we remodeled the academic map of the country in a cohesive and extensive dialogue with the academic community. You charged us openly with conciliation and election games, and with this pretext you suspended thirty-seven new departments, you abolished the Law School of Patras, you abolished the Competent Authority for the Quality Assurance of the Foundation and created a new one that responds to your party plans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. Today, then, we invite you not to go ahead with the establishment of the "Chrysochide University", representing distortions of the past without academic preconditions. There is also a press release issued by the University Upgrade Movement, which invites you to withdraw. Minister, withdraw the article and have an honest and effective debate, be reviewed and amended so that the operation of the new schools is aligned with the status of the schools in the highest military direction and assessed according to higher education institutions. By means of a nominal rate, without academic guarantees, no upgrades are made and such practices are a downgrading of the academic securities that are matched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three teachers from the General School of Kranidios Argolidas. The House welcomes you. Good progress, guys! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The next speaker is Mr George Kotsiras from New Democracy and Mr Aylonitis and Mr Kalamatianos are prepared. Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I am complaining, of course, because you have referred to the other Members in their constituency, and to us who are a region of natural disasters, such as West Attica, you have only highlighted party origin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u216	I'm sorry, it didn't happen intentionally. So my love in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u217	Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, this very important and politically required bill provides for the establishment of an important National Crisis Management Mechanism, the upgrading of the system of prevention and volunteering, as well as the reorganisation of the Fire Corps. The natural disasters, the tragic consequences of which our country has experienced very recently, have, in the most recent way, confirmed the urgent need to adopt a model of modern, flexible and effective crisis management and to tackle risks arising from natural disasters, prioritising the protection of human life, guaranteeing the property of citizens, natural wealth and cultural heritage. The administrative and operational upgrading of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection will result in increased operational efficiency. The tragedy in Matti and Mandra highlighted the inherent weaknesses of our country's civil protection system. Indicatively, the fire in Matty destroyed thirteen square kilometres in an area of about four thousand inhabitants and we mourned a hundred two fellow citizens. Corresponding cases of fires both in California and Australia in far larger areas and in cases where many more citizens experience, they had much smaller numbers of victims. Obviously, the situation in which each country is in economic conditions and prosperity, but the question of coordination, operational management, preparedness, flexibility and clear competences are very important, as all international investigations have shown. In Mandra and Nea Peramo respectively, we lamented our fellow citizens from floods that hit the areas, while in Kinette there was a huge natural disaster from the fire and then from the flood, and fortunately there were no other human losses. And here, Minister, I think we should look very carefully at the issue of Kinetta, which is a lively problematic situation, since after the fire the mountain above is in a very bad state and the danger is constant. Evidently, therefore, of all the existing events now, it is proven that the model that has been used to date has failed. Can we forget the moments of administrative and operational panic that prevailed on the day of the double fire in Matti and Kineta, the complete impossibility of the state mechanism to manage adequately a situation that was very difficult? I hear a criticism of a multiplicity of competences, supposedly, with this bill. There we were looking to find out who would give the evacuation order, which of the two mayors would have the authority, if there was a fire department in Marathon, if the police could intervene in the Rafina hub to send them off the beach. These were things that related to both management and responsibilities and preparedness and the result, unfortunately, was painful. In a country with a fire brigade, a Greek Police and a National Emergency Center, the organization and coordination should at least be much better than other cases. So it proved in practice that it is not. The draft law deeply reorganises the country's civil protection, encoding legislation into a basic text, incorporates civil protection in a national disaster reduction policy, for the first time in Greece the single disaster management from all risks. It is worth mentioning that in other countries this has happened since the 1990s and the 2000s, and in the specific way that is formed at central, regional and local level, with fully clarified responsibilities, there is a speed, flexibility and decision-making potential much faster, at both strategic and operational level. Funding for prevention and preparedness projects shall also be established. Prevention and preparedness, obviously, is a key aspect of crisis management at this level. The responsibilities, as I have said before, are codified, so that we do not look at the time of the crisis who will take responsibility and who will manage this critical situation. This is a key element that obviously does not have a party to deal with. It is an institutional issue that the public must know too, because the management of the criminal investigation in Matti and the conclusion of the prosecutors has already been mentioned. Justice will do its job, obviously, but the chaos that prevailed had consequences, had hundreds of our fellow citizens dead. Mandra's the same. I wish it wouldn't happen again. No one wants us to experience similar situations. The General Secretariat for Civil Protection also acquires new structures, economic self-sufficiency and the possibility of directly absorbing European funds for risk maps, repairs, protection and prevention projects. The Fire Corps is also reorganised in terms of hierarchy, evaluation, service development, and more generally issues relating to the service and organisational management of the Fire Corps. Problems have been solved for years. Mr. General, you have done a serious job for people who were in 2009 seasonal firefighters. A number of long-term issues can be resolved, and other follow-up aid possibilities and other categories of fire extinguishers may be found. However, what we need to keep is that an operational capacity is created in the whole civil protection mechanism which is to be in favour of transparency and citizens' knowledge of who actually has what. The categorisation of voluntary organisations as well as the establishment of a clear framework of operational involvement and inclusion rules in the National Civil Protection Mechanism fully ensure the optimal operational use of civil protection volunteers and clarify the conditions for the integration and maintenance of the status of voluntary groups and organisations. Also encouraging is the implementation of 112 as a dual call reception system and early warning of the population after a long period of inertia. It is not in this bill, but it is in a context of wider civil protection, which if it existed in pre-existing situations, many of our fellow citizens would have escaped from the painful situation that they experienced and thus created a complete system of civil protection. Climate change - global phenomenon, very serious - must be taken into account, and our country must be ready for its management, and I think that legislation with the fullness of this initiative will lead to an optimal response to these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we have spent a lot as a country of natural disasters especially over the last two years. With the particular honour and responsibility of being elected in an area which was severely affected by natural disasters, I cannot forget the images that we have all experienced, the personal experiences we have in the damaged areas, the absence or the lack of organisation that had known tragic results. We must stand by these societies now, but at the same time we must do everything in our power not to relive such moments in the future. We have to be responsible for the difficult future, and this legislative initiative is the beginning of this new period. I will close with a small comment on the amendment which was discussed this morning for non-governmental organisations. Is there a Greek who disagrees that there should be a record of the natural persons involved with non-governmental organisations, which, in fact, many of them can rationally handle a very critical issue? Does anyone object to recording and checking and certification on a critical issue which employs the Greek society with too many real difficulties? I really understand political controversy entirely and criticism but not to reach points of political irrationality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, too. For the victims all we have to say, Mr. Kotsira, is never again! As for the amendment, we had to go further, not now to record who they are. Mr Alexandros Aylonite has the floor from the beautiful Corfu! Of course we don't have to say that Corfu is beautiful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u219	The beautiful Corfu one with problems. I have listened very carefully to Mrs Vultesis' speech. Of the seven minutes he had, four and a half minutes he dedicated for the Eye, Matty, Matty, and the rest he dedicated to explaining why SYRIZA doesn't support this bill. And I said in my name: 'Oh, my homeland poor, what a curse you'.' We see people changing around us, climate change, Amazon, Australia, here we had Eye, and I honestly have the impression that these issues need to be considered by other scientists. Those obsessions! We have a huge issue that we are discussing today, and we are insisting there on stepping over a hundred dead to opposition! Are these things? The government's changed, you take over, we're done. So let's see what you're gonna do from now on. And it's a ruthless question. Does Greece have a modern, flexible and effective national crisis management and risk management mechanism with this bill? I do not claim that there should be no one in this bill. For God's sake! Each government will put its mark on it. But will this draft law restrict future disasters? Is it going to protect our society from loss of human life? It does not seem to me that this bill responds with persuasiveness. I followed the committee's meetings for a long time. I read and heard positions. I conclude from now on, and I want to share it with you. If a huge fire or flood or an earthquake occurs, can a minister - and you, Minister - tell me what will be the instrument, the single representative or the collective body, who will coordinate and decide what actions are effective and directly? Look out, we've got war when we've got Eye type situations! What will be the collective organ? I, by reading it, do not claim that he should not have this person's staff and that he will be consulted. I am concerned about the absolute salt of the infinite responsible who gave you the courage - I choose with absolute faith the word courage - to take the dead, as - I will say for the second time - in Matti. But don't you remember what happened to Matty? Don't you remember where you put the ultimate responsibility? Beware of a political person while addressing such risks requires science, technical competence, business plan. You have focused everything, even today, and that is the image of our political system. As a citizen, and now as a Member of Parliament, I would say completely inappropriate with the operational part of the state machine, what am I expecting the government, what is the citizen expecting? A small final shape with experienced and scientific experts, who are fully ready when evil comes, to prepare state services and coordinate and decide in a very short time. Isn't that what we need? What is this bill, which you have brought us to vote on? Excuse me, but this bill is not aimed at what I mentioned earlier. Is it achieving coordination - is it an important question - of all with the powers that overlap? In answer to the question, who decides to step up the level of preparedness for crisis management? We hear the scientific community, you as government hear it? Does it say all that today is recorded in this bill? So, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the bill we see is very bureaucratic, very partisan, very dashing. That is what many of my colleagues have said. Did you hear what various operators say? I am not talking about the President of the EIA that I attended in committee and I do not understand anything. I beg your pardon, he would be in the position of Mrs Durou if Mrs Durou had not been elected. I didn't understand anything. But did you hear the other district managers? Did you read SYRIZA's bill? We didn't have time to vote. It happened in May. Does the fact that it has not been voted upon give you the right to question the content and correctness of its provisions? Did you read it? I will only tell you that in order to be able to achieve something better for this place, we should consult everyone. I found that this bill was not drafted after it had been consulted with everyone and those I mentioned earlier, particularly the scientific community, the Fire Service. Before I came here, I was in contact with the fire department officials and have expressed opinions which I will submit immediately as soon as I get off the Step. For example, I shall refer in particular to the provisions of Article 82 concerning the Ionian Islands Region. You cut her in half. The lower part of the islands goes to Patras, the upper part of Yannina, and the region is one. How will the whole story be coordinated, I don't know. Explain. Also, Corfu is, the old town is protected by UNESCO. That's what I'm saying for those who deserve it, because I'm given the opportunity today. If anything bad happens in this town, there will be no elementary possibility of entering a fire car, small or large, and we will burn like mice! We tell local government, we call it centrally, at the level of civil protection! Nobody listens! These are the things to answer. The government is accountable for all this and of course the bill. I will tell you - because I have no time and I want to devote myself to something else at the end - to listen to the words 'National Civil Protection Authority'. This is how SYRIZA's bill is structured at first, in the head. Read it a little. Another issue I would like to raise in my capacity is the question of prisons. I read Article 185. My colleague Spyros Lappas spoke. The private prison institution is introduced for the first time in our country. So, at least, I read it. It is a very serious and dangerous project, ladies and gentlemen. But without consultation, without a scientific debate, this article obeys the basic neoliberal project of your resignation completely. The state, for you, must be transformed, by magic, into a mere observer. Everything in private. The basic functions of the state, health, education, security and justice to individuals. Only one argument will be made to the contrary. This provision has to do with the commercialisation of criminal justice. I would remind you that the creation of penalties is a stage in the administration of justice, as Spyros Lappas says, as the lawyers say, as the whole scientific world says. And you took the prisons to the Citizen's Department. If that's possible! The privatization of criminal justice gives rise to serious objections to the rule of law and democracy, as it is assigned to individuals part of the state's hard core, and private interests are involved in the formation of anti-crime policy. You are reintroducing the private sentence and we have so far known that the penalty is a public case and anti-crime policy as a whole is a public justice policy. We therefore do not agree with the Civil Protection Bill or with the specific provisions on the privatisation of prisons. Thank you, Mr President, for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, too. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos has the floor from the also beautiful and afflicted Elias Law. Get Mr. Lambroulis, Mr. Heimaras and Mr. Zachariadis ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u221	Indeed, Mr President, Elias is afflicted. In 2007, we experienced tragedy, with dozens of victims. It is a flammable county, and unfortunately, we have to remember these things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in the era of rapid and ever-increasing climate change, the intensity of unexpected natural changes. The state's task is to take appropriate measures to protect citizens by every means. It is no accident, after all, that global public opinion has become aware. It seeks the best possible policies for the management of natural and environmental disasters, policies which must incorporate prevention and address their consequences. Everyone remembers the disaster I mentioned earlier in my special homeland, Elias, in 2007. Unfortunately, we have mourned dozens of victims. The effects of the tragedy have been captured, they have strongly left their prints on people, on the economy, on the natural environment. It is therefore our duty to ensure that we arm ourselves in the institutions, but also in the operational sphere, so that we do not mourn victims again. After the tragedies which our country has experienced, it is understood that the civil protection system must be upgraded and concentrated on four main axes: first, recognition of risks, preparation, information and education. Secondly, prevention, mitigation of effects. Third, readiness, deal with it. And fourth, short restoration. Ladies and gentlemen, the key to effective political protection is coordination. We need clear and distinct role-sharing, rapid decision-making, a hierarchical structure of services, but prevention must not be neglected. Also important is the immediate treatment of incidents, especially in the first hours of incidents, in order to reduce the number of loss in human lives and property. The structural and components of an effective civil protection system are, unfortunately, absent from your own legislation. SYRIZA, in October 2019, submitted a draft law to Parliament, which was formulated after a serious consultation and with positive comments from both the CSCE and the European Civil Protection Mechanism, the Standing Committee on CSR and others. It has also incorporated appropriate scientific documentation in line with European standards. On the other hand, you are introducing a bill which unfortunately shows the characteristics of cutlery to the vote. It includes arrangements for volunteering, as well as arrangements for the restructuring of the Fire Corps. Of the 190 articles, only 54 concern civil protection. But let's talk in particular. Firstly, there is firstly no consultation. Specifically, the Association of the Regions of Greece points out that there is a need for the full clarification and delimitation of powers and jurisdiction of the Regional Coordinator of Civil Protection, i.e. the retired coordinator who entered, of the regional and territorial district authorities, of the Civil Protection Commanders, to avoid duplication or gaps of competence and the creation of parallel information and decision-making paths. The local government also asks for the coordination of civil protection at regional level to be made by the Heads of the autonomous Civil Protection Directorates and the local civil protection departments. But you ignore those who will be called upon to implement the relevant system and of course have the necessary know-how. There can be no provision for local organization. You assign the coordination and organisation to a posted official chosen by the Secretary-General of Civil Protection and assigned as advisor to the district manager. Secondly, we need staff, ladies and gentlemen of the government. These people cannot be replaced by machines or by modern technology machines and systems. They have competences and experience beyond any information system. That is why the EPC is calling for immediate measures to be taken to ensure that civil protection services are provided with the necessary staff. Take a look at our proposal for a law in Articles 62 and 63. This is where organic jobs were set up, but also the overtime pay procedure in the event of the five-day work being exceeded. We have therefore practically recognised the work of civil protection officials and not the words. Thirdly, with regard to civil protection funds, Mr Patoulis has also asked for a programme corresponding to the 'Philodis' programme, a programme which, of course, was implemented on SYRIZA and the current government, unfortunately, has been frozen. This is much more necessary than anticipating a final NSRP structure in the Secretary-General. It is also much more necessary than the classified funds of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. If, as you told us in committee, the necessary funds are for the support of Article 112, write it down. Say it, write it in the article that it's for it. Not to leave ambiguities and to think that something else is happening. Make it clear to the law that it's all clean and clean. Fourthly, this bill is worth mentioning specifically the role of the Secretary-General for Civil Protection, which is being converted into a State Secretary. This is a new indication of over-concentration, which, unfortunately, will fail. I hope that this is not the case, but it seems that the national coordinator for the refugee problem has failed, and that is why after the fiasco, arrogant, you are coming back and re-approved the Ministry of Migration Policy, which in the summer, as soon as you took over the administration, you have abolished it. Finally, I would like to emphasise the points made by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which clearly raises issues of opposition to specific provisions - I shall mention them - with the Constitution and environmental legislation, both national and European. It therefore refers to paragraph 7 of Article 33, paragraph 8 of Article 33, paragraph 5 of Article 33, paragraph 3 of Article 42, paragraph 3 of Article 54, and, of course, Article 53 on confidential funds that there are issues of constitutionality and opposition to environmental legislation, national and European. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and in civil protection, it seems once again how uncomfortable and handy you are. Cheap populism and political exploitation of the tragic events of the previous period may have helped you to build a profile of political prosecutors. But now, you are ruling and you are responsible for not having new victims of natural disasters. We call on you to listen to the OTAs, the service actors, to take advantage of our proposal for a law, to deal with civil protection not as an opportunityal issue, but as a national matter. Our government has managed some of the worst cases of natural disasters in the recent period in the country, but it has always been institutional, scientific, without dark plans and with the maturity of responsibility. Unfortunately, you seem to be at the completely opposite current. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, too. Mr. George Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece from Larissa with beautiful Tempis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u223	Let us not go into such remarks. Let's get right to the point of the bill. I shall refer to Rule 189 of the bill on supervised sites, for which, Minister, we have also called for its withdrawal from the committee, but also for the first time in the debate on the draft law by our general speaker. It is about specialising in the implementation of an anti-popular criminal policy, a matter that the debate on both its adoption, its legislation and its implementation began years ago by the PASOK and New Democracy governments, as well as by the previous SYRIZA a year ago. Therefore, nothing but accidental convergence of all other parties on the serious problem of drug dependence, since they agree with the strategic directions of the European Union and on this issue, because supervised use sites are nothing but a management of drug dependence in the context of the policy of reducing the damage, which was raised and raised as a solution on the grounds that drug dependence is not addressed, so what remains to be managed to limit its consequences. Just one of the most serious issues, but also the results of this policy, is the undermining of the incentive towards the treatment of thousands of people, the attempt not only of influence but also of manipulation - of consciences and, at the same time, the downturn of resistance to a complex multifactorial problem, in order to be accepted as a natural phenomenon with which users and society should not only become familiar, but to learn to live. The aim is to caging users on a legitimate margin, provided that they do not cause nuisance, do not disturb. Thus, with the article of the bill, the New Democracy Government, continuing the way the previous SYRIZA, PASOK - and saying it - gives the opportunity to 'hot' therapeutic programs, for example, to operate in specially designed areas for drug use, effectively altering the nature of the programmes itself. In order to reduce costs, but also the reactions, it carries responsibility to the municipalities, regions, with responsibilities which have no responsibility, such as know-how, appropriate staff, etc. In fact, all other urban parties, in order to convince them of the need to create supervised spaces, have been backed up in the past and have exploited - and still exploit - various scientific analyses, studies, but also pretexts such as promoting health for active users or public health and many more, as well as invoking European experience. But what does European experience show? It shows exactly the opposite. Thus, for example, the data from the Dutch Government do not indicate from anywhere the effectiveness of this measure in reducing the use or reduction of heroin deaths. On the contrary, there is a steady increase in heroin use and the data continuously show that due to these structures in the Netherlands there is no tendency to incorporate users into therapeutic programmes. Accordingly, in Switzerland the authorities were forced to close a place like this in Zurich, since in a few years it had turned into hell of the living dead. There are other examples. Here, how supervised and life-long substitution sites form the pillars of the policy of reducing the damage to toxicological dependence that undermines all possibilities for dismantling. However, behind which studies and analyses the reality is that despite the huge problems of subsidization and subsidization, the curative programs have to show enviable effectiveness, confirming that rehabilitation is possible if the necessary modern public and free structures exist. The key to this is the required staffing and funding. Thus, instead of apologising all parties that have alternately ruled to increase the problem of drugs, they condemn actual addicts to become drug captives. This policy undermines the struggle for rehab. You are fundamentally legitimate about the trade and trafficking of drugs and you are addicting our people to hide the problem so that it does not spoil the tourist front, for example, of Athens and possibly other regions of Greece. As far as the JRC and the OKANA are concerned, the economic loop is tightening further. Employees' employment relations - ancillary staff, six months, twelve months - paid by the funds of the agencies are paralyzed. They are workers who are called upon to manage their own job insecurity and, on the other hand, to increase the relapse caused by the lack of this very permanent staff. Really, who will ultimately benefit from supervised use sites? We are saying this clearly. Those who earn inconsistent sums from drug trafficking and trafficking will benefit, but also a side industry that is active around the damage reduction programmes and is financed by state and European funds. Thus, instead of confronting the causes and helping young children escape use, it imprisones the drug addicts on a legitimate margin that should not be tolerated by youth, prevention, treatment and the general public. We call on them to condemn this policy of managing the use of drugs, because the fight against all drugs, the fight for prevention, treatment, disarmament and reintegration should not go through this new curse condemning the swamp of dependence on thousands of our people. Obviously we are voting against the article. In closing, Minister, we ask that it be withdrawn once again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u224	Thank you very much for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to present to the House legislative improvements that come from the Scientific Office of the Parliament and concern also the last amendment on immigration, which I accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u226	Please, Minister, to be presented and distributed to Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u227	Of course, Mr President, I am presenting them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Themistoklis Himaras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic moments experienced by our country in the recent past cost hundreds of our fellow people the lives and gave us many lessons in the most difficult, unfortunately, way. The Civil Protection Mechanism has proved inadequate. The account taken of human lives was heavy. The full resilience of those responsible, combined with the absence of an organised prevention and intervention plan, led to the tragic disasters of the recent and supreme past. The absence of a central mechanism inevitably triggered questions about who was responsible, who did not do as he should have done, who was delayed giving orders, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who have questions that still have not found an answer today. It is the government that has an obligation to guarantee above all the safety of its citizens. It's the core of state service. There are no mistakes and apologies. The state has a duty to protect its citizens from any possible threat. From my first speech as a Member, I would like to stress that we in this Chamber should agree on the essentials. We must therefore agree today that the civil protection mechanism is suffering and that it has proved to us many times. We must agree that the time has come for this to be dealt with responsibly. This bill modernises and restructures Civil Protection, upgrades volunteering, reorganises the Fire Corps and, above all, gathers scorpions that placed triplets in the operation and cooperation of services. He corrects overlaps of responsibilities, which can be fatal and makes clear who should do what and when. This ensures that critical decisions are taken quickly, but also that the necessary actions are taken. At the top of the administrative pyramid is the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. Just below, the newly established National Risk Management and Risk Management Mechanism is placed. All civil protection structures will henceforth be converged in this mechanism. The aim of the Government is to create a Single National Civil Protection System, a vertical organisation based on the American and Russian model, which will occupy the entire range of disaster cycles. With the bill, municipalities and regions are actively involved in both planning and coordination of crisis management operations. Their responsibilities are clearly some so that they can do their job. Their role is not complementary, as was the case in the past, because in essence self-government raises the greatest operational burden of civil protection, but also knows as much as anyone else's particular local issues and features. In my place, in Fthiotida, when the Spear is flooded or when it is snowed for days in Tymfristos, the municipalities and the region will attempt night and day against the very nature. Self-government - and I also speak with you in my own experience as self-government - is entitled to have the right to design, management and, of course, to repair damage and acquire it in this draft law. The Secretary-General, Mr Chardalias, knows much better than I do, who is, in general, doing an excellent job. I've been working with him in the past and only good words I have to say about how suitable he is for this work he's doing today. Ladies and gentlemen, the same practice follows countries such as America, Switzerland and Germany, which make the most of the municipalities and local communities, at all stages of risk management, from prevention to recovery. Minister, the crucial, next step is the immediate reinforcement of TA I and II grades, with modern civil protection instruments and the parallel liberalisation of administrative procedures. A special reference should be made to the establishment of the final NSRP structure, which is provided for in the provisions of the draft law. The issue is to make more rapid and more efficient use of available national, European and international resources in actions relating to civil protection. Why is the ultimate ESRB structure critical? Because it is well known to all those who come from self-government that if there were the technical capacity to exploit these resources - and I am referring to the possibility of direct study and development of projects - then we could carry out natural disaster prevention projects rather than come back as a state and repair disasters, to compensate where we can see the people who saw their properties destroyed. The Operational Risk Prevention and Management Fund is responsible for direct funding, in this regard, the planning, preparation and implementation of studies. On the substance, ladies and gentlemen, through the bill the state - at last - assumes responsibility. It will not have the right and the ability to show self-government as responsible after any catastrophe, the self-government which is known to be underfinanced and cannot respond to the basics. Civil protection will have its own fund, its own money, while equipped with the institutional framework, so that it can intervene fully. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are giving the dimension we owe to civil protection. Winston Churchill once said: "You must not turn your back on a threatened danger and try to get away from him. If you do, you'll double the risk. But, if you deal with him in time, you will reduce him to half." And that is exactly what the government is doing right now. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, Lamia, the district of the regional and police firefighting forces, will respond with adequate seat as also the Regional Coordination Organisation of Central Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, too. And congratulations on keeping time. Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor by SYRIZA and Mr. Katrinis, Mr. Ragus and Mr. Boutsikakis are prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on my speech on the Immigration Policy amendment and what is happening in this area. Unfortunately, after seven months it seems quite clear that it is the government's choice to turn islands into warehouses of impoverished people, as a allegedly deterrent instrument. It is an option to create conditions of crisis and chaos, to make it easier to then impose authoritarian and inhuman policies. It is your choice to transform the refugee - immigration into a humanitarian crisis. Locals, islands, refugees and immigrants are victims of the Mitsotakis ideoleptic policy. Unfortunately, this policy brings hatred, violence and division to the islands. In Lesvos yesterday citizens incited violence against refugees and immigrants. Unfortunately, the practices of the Golden Dawn, which remained outside the House seven months ago, are returning to society. You have trained society with toxicity and violence, you have caused division, you have won elections both as government and as regions and municipalities, and now you cannot manage anything. Pick up the extremists because we will live uncontrolled situations on our islands and live situations of tension and hatred. The New Democracy in Chios took 45%, disapproved Mr. Metarakis. Who were they disapproved of? Did SYRIZA disapprove him? Your own people, the ones you disciplined them like this. Mytilini 39%. Change politics. Look at the problem. We will help you to bend the extremists, we will also help you in the negotiations in Europe. But do it now and not in six months, as you did with the abolition and re-establishment of the Ministry of Migration Policy. Now let's go and ask some specific questions, to see even what's announced how you're doing and how the situation goes. How many officials were working in asylum services and how many are working today, after seven months of New Democracy's official administration? Truly, how are the asylum applications that were tempered by this Step and the media that they are delaying? Are we going slower or are we going faster? Returns of how do they go after seven months of New Democracy's administration? Can you tell us briefly what the difficulties in return are? And finally, it's something that Minister Metarakis said, right here and I see it in the panel, they say, "Strengthening border. We are defending effectively against the ideas of the past." That's a very clever communal shape, why? Because you are trying to show that we were not - as with other issues - and so many patriots - in order to protect the borders effectively and you have come and keep them much more efficiently. What does it mean, when a boat starts from Cesme and comes to Chios with women and children, effective border care? In particular, what is the Greek side doing? What's he doing? Why does it stop it, push it, sink it, let it come and asylum applications are being examined? What does European law say? Because, in these things you may be playing strict and lifting tons, but the other day, with the research Turkish ship, you said you were blowing, didn't you? And then the minister came out and said you did a nerve test and a psychology test with the neighbors. So, then, you're intense and strict when a boat comes with women's children, or you're setting up a two and a half-kilometre moving fence into the sea. I'm sure you've been to islands. Do you have a sense of size? Do you know how much the coastline is? Can a fence two and a half kilometers do something? Who are you trying to fool? Who are you trying to convince? Even the European Commission in its communication wonders what you are trying to do in the Aegean Sea with two and a half thousand meters of fence. Because my father's origin is from Chios, I'll tell you that most beaches are larger than two and a half kilometers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u232	They'll get more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u233	How much? Will he be a fence from upstairs to down? And what if a boat comes with a hundred asylum seekers, stop at the fence, and these people with seven, eight, ten booths drown? Who's going to take that responsibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Chrysochoidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u235	Oh, no. Mr Chrysochoidis has other responsibilities. It will now be taken over by Mr. Metarakis. That's hypocrisy. It's a huge communal bubble to pet the far right audiences. It is disgraceful that you are doing, playing with who is guarding and who is not effectively guarding the borders. I would never say for any Greek government that it guards or does not effectively guard the borders. You play with the patriotism of the Greeks and Greeks in very difficult and sensitive moments, knowing that we in these issues do not make you micro-party and metropolitan opposition. You're talking about controlled, closed centers, prisons. If in an open camp like yesterday, the explosion occurs yesterday, what will happen and what will be the circumstances if we build a camp prison? Are you trying to hide and eliminate the problem from society? Look at the problem, manage it and ask for help. Finally, I want to speak a few seconds on the issue of the first residence which has arisen in the last 24 hours. It's completely different to be realistic than being cynical. Unfortunately, those who in 2013-2014 said "who can't pay a loan because he was immersed in the crisis must go to a smaller house, a poorer area and rent," they say today that the protection of the first home is damaging to the economy. The damage to the economy is your policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few seconds, Mr. President. The first residence is sacred and as such we will defend it both in the House and in the movement. And don't tell us about the batters, because the banks that your governments had before the crisis were putting party administrations, they gave unpaid loans to the batters. You knew that, and you were accomplices. Also, a great battling is your party and your parties that owe tens of millions of banks. Also, do not say that we are the ones who want to protect the great and the very great wealth that is hidden and which has come out of the world, because you in the summer have made 100 million euros available to the ENPI in properties of a million euros or more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-five students and students and three teachers attending the 4th School of Nice. We welcome you, boys. [[Applause]] I will now give Mr Katrin the floor from the Change Movement. He then asked for the floor and the parliamentary representative from Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, will have him. Then will the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u238	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a bill on civil protection. It's so timely. We are talking about civil protection, protection of citizens, protection of citizens' first homes, protection of the citizens from first home auctions. It is a timely matter, Minister, because it opened after the cynical statement by the Minister of Development three days ago at the Athens Chamber of Commerce. Of course New Democracy accuses SYRIZA and the former Minister of Finance that he had made a similar statement two years ago by saying that the auctions are necessary for development and social reasons. Why is New Democracy fighting with SYRIZA? Did they not both vote for Law 4605/2019, where, under the SYRIZA Government, first home protection was foreseen until 31 December 2019 and simply now did New Democracy make a small extension until 30 April 2020? It says the Government is currently protecting the first residence under Law 4605/2019 and the famous SYRIZA electronic platform that continues to be improved by the New Democracy. What, then, do the evidence say to see how the first home of borrowers is protected? Forty-two thousand-seven users have been on the platform to date. Six hundred and sixty-six proposals for regulation have been given by the banks, representing 1.62% of the borrowers who entered the platform. Two hundred and seventy-three regulations have been made, 0.64% of applications. Of course, the Minister of Finance at noon in committee said 'we have an increase in applications and the rate of satisfaction of the requests accepted'. Of course, from 0.56% in a week it went to 0.64%. So in 12 weeks remaining until the protection of the first residence is lifted, you understand that it can, with ambitious plans, receive 2% or 3% of the borrowers' protection. So 97% of the government's base is battered and strategic bad payers? No, ladies and gentlemen. It is a framework of protection that has also failed from the previous government that introduced it and voted for it by today, which continues without bringing something visible, alternative, sustainable and effective. Let us now come to this bill. It's a bill that's huge in volume. I would say a demonic, Minister, with a hundred and twenty-eight ordinances and regulations that will be followed. Of course, it is right that the provisions concerning the Fire Corps and the voluntary firefighters that the political leadership - and over time is doing so - should be side by side and recognise their work and their efforts. But of course, there is a question whether structures and functions will eventually become more complex instead of being simplified. Let's turn the time back to see what didn't happen a while ago or what badly happened to Matty. Let me remind colleagues. The Political Protection Coordinator was there convened by the Regional Director. The district chief didn't attend and sent an appointed consultant. This coordination meeting, discussed, received a recommendation twice by the chief of firefighting to evacuate the settlement and no decision was taken to evacuate or evacuate with the known tragic results. If the current legislative framework were to apply at the time, what would be different, Minister? You say "we recommend Regional Operational Coordinating Organisation for Civil Protection to direct the work of local operational coordination bodies in cases of emergency". Local business is directing the work of Political Protection at local level for emergency status. Local operational bodies are directing the work of Political Protection for emergency situations at local level and the Regional Operational Centre for Civil Protection - third body - provides organised support to the competent emergency management and response body, sends information on the proper assessment of the situation and decision-making by the relevant bodies as appropriate. Tell me: in the time when the disaster took place in Matty, could all these organs be convened to give information, suggestion? To whom is it finally the responsibility and decision to evacuate or not to evacuate the settlement? The mayor and the district chief. So, again, a hereditary of self-government has a responsibility. I wonder. There is a Regional Political Protection Coordinator and it is rightly recommended. That's his job. He is the most competent and aware of the situation. If there is one, why should the President-in-Office make this decision? Indeed, you forecast, when the disaster extends beyond the two regions, that the competence will not go to the Regional Secretary of the Decentralised Administration but go to the Secretary-General of Civil Protection, who is responsible and the answer how to make the decision. I therefore think that you should correct the responsibility for taking the decision and go to the Regional Coordinator for Civil Protection, to which you yourself are also able to replace the regional manager as President of the regional coordination body. So I think this should be a change that needs to be made rather than experience the known story, not taking responsibility, disclaiming responsibility, and in the end there should be a charge without the person responsible, who is the member of the Civil Protection, to take the decision, as it has to be. I would like to make a small reference to Article 189 and to close my position on sites for supervised use, places that actually promote the health of users, protect public health, reduce the prevalence of infectious diseases, of course reduce public nuisance and mobilise and prepare - and this is very important and should not be underestimated - the integration of users into treatment programmes. You are all aware that in 2013 the "Ulysses" programme in OkANA had been piloted. OkANA, in 2014 he formally proposed to join the National Drugs and Action Plan, the supervised use of sites. Unfortunately, the publicity - then - of the operation of this station caused the intervention of the prosecutor, and the agency for drug trafficking and trafficking was accused of being involved. It came under article 62 of Law4316/2014 to legalise the operation, but it took almost five years before the SYRIZA government, despite repeated public calls by political parties, the mayor of Athenians - George Kamine, who saw the situation in the Museum, in law, in Exarchia, instead of saying the easy solution, police intervention, as the unaware of the problem, were talking about the need to establish and operate supervised sites. So the government comes with a terrible delay on 9-32019 to institutionalise the operation and adopt a ministerial decision twenty-five days before the July parliamentary elections. Of course, I hope that we will not go - once again - to legislation without the operation of surveillance areas. However, special attention is needed in the context of the operation of these stations and sites by the local authorities, which should be in close cooperation and apply the scientific protocol of the therapeutic bodies to ensure that there is substantial results, which - I think - will be for the benefit of the whole society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u240	The parliamentary representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ms. Giannakou, I wanted to give you my position, but we didn't have time to do it. It's technical.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u242	It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u243	Be well. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come here today to discuss another blocked bill, consisting of a hundred and ninety articles, which are divided into four different ones, and, in our opinion - completely irrelevant to each other, whose titles - I think - it makes no sense for me to say them again from here, since almost all the previous Members of Parliament have described them in detail. We are therefore talking about another bill, which attempts to resolve many issues and to define how structures, services, organs, etc. should be used, by putting various issues and different issues among themselves, which, in our view, should be discussed separately. But what can anyone say, ladies and gentlemen? We have - I think - almost all of us have become accustomed to this practice of legislating the Government of New Democracy over the past six months. So let's move on to the issue now. Of course, all of us in here, I imagine, recognize the very important importance of a project to create an integrated civil protection mechanism, to prevent and tackle all emergencies. However, we in Mera25 are extremely concerned, as this specific draft law seems to be attempting to create a huge bureaucratic crisis management mechanism involving various operational bodies - managements, committees, councils, coordinators, directors and alternates of these directors - with too many overlapping responsibilities, which will ultimately create problems with the functioning of the already existing ones - in any case, problematic instruments - while there are no solutions to the malfunctionings that are afflicting the relevant agencies and creating the framework - and the Treaty on unsuccessful interventions, inconsistency, transfer of responsibilities, ruthlessness, etc. You know, don't get bored. While this huge bureaucratic formation is being created, unfortunately we do not see any mention being made of either state funding or of strengthening services to staff, instruments, equipment and infrastructure. How, in other words, are all the things that the bill designs by miracle? You know better than me that they need resources, people who also mean resources. At the same time, they are being oversupported, as we are used to the last seven months, offices, agencies and agencies with new, high-level members, who are general secretaries, directors and governors - and as I said before - their respective alternates. So memories, I'm very afraid they're coming back, ladies and gentlemen. Why tell me, indeed, how to not think - even if we do not want - that all these positions that you seem to invent them - I address the government now - will eventually be taken over by those who have been found to support them - and by the social media too, it seems from their public attitude - that our new government's attempt at election and from what seems to be the time for you to return them. Furthermore, there are no expenditures for important studies on a scientific basis - that is very important for us - while the infrastructures of civil protection, firefighting, forest service, competent services, municipalities and regions are in no way predicted to be strengthened. How, then, do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that such a mechanism will work when state funding is at the level that the memorandums have imposed for ten, eleven years, with the enormous cuts that have been made over these years? How do you believe it? In what way? I repeat, it's not by magic. With regard to the reorganisation and modernisation of the services of the Fire Corps, the regulations of the bill - to our great regret - maintain and strengthen its militarised structure, namely the structure of the Security Councils. Furthermore, cooperation with Europol continues - which is also a security body -, interconnection with NATO - the comments are unnecessary, we all know what NATO is, through the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, this interconnection will take place -, contrary to the nature of the role and the mission of the body of the Greek Firefighting. At this point it is worth pointing out the tensions expressed in an article and the former Deputy Chief of Firefighting, Mr Andrian Gourbatsis. In introductory terms, I read his words: 'There is no need, but only appropriateness to establish the commander of the Civil Protection Coordination Body and the thirteen regional coordinators, who will not only solve any problems, but will also cause even more new ones. The only thing that they will actually bring about during the operation of this mechanism is to add problems to existing ones, i.e. hooks and malfunctions, because it is almost certain that malfunctions of the mechanism will be caused by the rivalry between the two institutions.' More than we know about retired and active fire extinguishers. In addition, he says: 'It will burden taxpayers with an incredible extra and completely unnecessary cost - in his opinion - which, as a whole, represents half a million euros per year. Those who devised - continue - the above bodies are evidently selfish and naturally expose the Government and the Prime Minister himself, since the only aim is to establish a very costly party army so as to make it convenient for the heterogeneous and excellent and in no way excellent.' Secondly, I will read to you the reservations of the Pan-Hellenic Pyrenees Association of five years of obligation, which reads: 'There are provisions - in this draft law we are talking about today - which, in implementing them, are capable of being interpreted differently each time - and that is why it is really very important - and provisions which have a purely negative sign, particularly with regard to the low-ranking personnel of the Firehouse in terms of the rating, organic positions, their standard qualifications, their repatriation and the regulation of their transfers'. In conclusion, this draft law will, in our view, reduce even more the services required by the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and the Fire Force. With the lack of state funding they will not be strengthened by staff, equipment, instruments and infrastructure, as required, and by the initial partial privatisation - and later we see - and the granting of state structures, services and responsibilities to municipalities, regions, voluntary groups and non-governmental organisations, the state is ultimately exempted from fundamental obligations relating to the protection of the life and property of our fellow citizens, the infrastructure of our country, as well as its natural environment. In the first article, which contains several terms in English - and I wonder why it was in English, since the Greek language is one of the richest in the world, as Mr Sargetakis said, I remember - we find one, in our view, from the wickedly expanded reference area which does not restrict the action of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection on natural grounds, such as 'human activity', to social factors or processes. In addition, there are references not only to ‘natural and technological’ but also to ‘relevant or other threats and disasters’. All of this is in Articles 2, 22 and 25. All of us find this extremely blurred. So these points, in our opinion, need clear and compelling clarification from the government. It's not too late, that's why we're still talking, here's the Minister. Clear. It is important, Minister, that there are no gray points which raise doubts. We're not bad-for-nothing. I wish we had no doubts. Make it clear and we won't have it. Article 42 establishes derogations from environmental laws, by the Risk Assessment Committee. As stated in the explanatory statement, this provision seeks to qualify as an immediate implementation by way of derogation from the applicable provisions of specific policy projects and to derogate from the environmental protection provision provided for, an accelerated procedure for the approval of environmental conditions cannot in this case be regarded as unauthorised and contrary to the constitutional protection of the environment, since it is also a constitutionally guaranteed principle of the protection of human life against natural and technological disasters and other threats. Something tells us here, in these strange and blursome words, that the Greek Constitution is somewhat pressed and we don't like that. We always prefer it to be observed. I have already explained that the General Secretariat for Civil Protection is turning into an enlarged body with huge responsibilities. In this context, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection is gaining overpower. He is given the opportunity to declare himself threatened, by disasters, areas in a situation of special mobilisation of civil protection in accordance with Article 26, for example, while Article 54 states that he is being given a white flexibility to conclude contracts and to cover all transport, subsistence, etc. Almost out of control. So I am thinking now of the evil and bad thinking, for example, if the Secretary-General follows the famous 'School Voridis' and starts to pie every year, twelve thousand euros, will this not be a problem in a society that is suffering poverty? We all understand, and unfortunately our history has taught us many times very unpleasantly, not to say tragic, that the concentration of so many powers on just one person - whatever this person, left, right, of Mera25 - means that he will have any backing. It may be alarming to gather so many powers to one person. It could even be dangerous. The story has shown it. So we look forward to it. It is also incomprehensible for us to provide for the creation of a special appropriation of secret national needs of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, in the standards of the respective funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Article 53. The question is simple: Why classified? After eleven years of total inhuman austerity for most of our fellow citizens, every decision, even secret credit, is extremely challenging. Throughout the second part, which concerns the upgrading of civil protection volunteers, it is more than obvious, in our view, that the government intends to transfer constitutional obligations to voluntary organisations and non-governmental organisations, under the cloak of the relevant regulatory framework that it is trying to create, covers the removal of its responsibilities and ultimately the transfer of competences to properties in quasi-civil society. As far as Amendment 150/3 is concerned, you are supposed to be trying with it yesterday to put an order into the chaos of the refugee immigrants, for which, in fact, I am sorry to tell you, you yourself are co-responsible, at least for the last seven months that you have been running and handling. The most worrying thing here, ladies and gentlemen, in our view, is that you have abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy in order to reconstitute it only a few months later, which, of course, itself betrays some triumph, but despite the fact that you have yet to take it back, you have to deal with the refugee in terms of public order and security, as evidenced by the maintenance of the position of a national coordinator responsible for border care. We are therefore voting 'no' on Amendment No 150/3. Another case of transferring state obligations is the provision of the local government I and II agencies to operate supervised drug use sites, which may also operate in the form of mobile units, without any reference to their funding. And she'll fall out of the sky. Article 189 Furthermore, it should be stressed that this article is irrelevant to this draft law, as it relates to the competence and law of another Ministry, the Ministry of Health, namely Law 4139/2013. It is considered positive, not only to say negative, Minister, the redefinition of the responsibilities of the Citizens' CouncU as a national mechanism for tying arbitrariness cases to the officials of the Greek Police, the Port Authority, the Hellenic Coast Guard, the Firehouse, as well as the employees of detention stores, as well as the fact that the Citizens' CouncU will finally be able to conduct investigations, regardless of any parallel development of criminal proceedings or proceedings. Article 188 Finally, let us pass to the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which is responsible for relocating Korydalos prisons. It shall require investigation and clarification of the provision concerning direct awards referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3, Article 185. Analogous clarification is also required for the compensatory benefits at the Local Government I degrees when relocation is to take place, Article 186. And as many responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice have been transferred to the Ministry of Citizen Protection, they are renewed by way of derogation and they are extended for a maximum of eight months, guard work contracts, detention stores, Article 183, and seven organic posts are transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, Article 184. At the same time, the Ministry of Citizen Protection provides for direct provision of advisory services, when contracts of estimated value of more than EUR 30 million are to be concluded, Article 187. I'm done with this. Are we finally leading to the privatization of our penitentiary system? It seems a bit like the government is seeking to increasingly strengthen the responsibilities of the Ministry of Civil Protection. We are really concerned, ladies and gentlemen. We're worried. In a way, we feel that we are inclined to have a government of civil protection or to be acquitted by a government of civil protection, and I say it in a bad way. If you finally go there, we ask you to protect only your excellent voters and leave the rest of the unregulated, unregulated, unemployed, underemployed and tragicly paid Greek citizens completely unprotected, but at least in relative free. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u244	We will give the floor to Mrs Marietta Giannakou from New Democracy, followed by the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much. Mr President, it is true that the draft law proposed today by the Minister for Civil Protection is a very large project and covers a number of areas. It is equally true that in some ways it includes aggregates. But what exists so far and the way we have not been able to deal with fires, catastrophic rains and other disasters and taking into account the fact that climate change is at the door, I think it allows us to set up a positive opinion in principle on this draft law. The reason why I am speaking is, above all, the farewell article of this law on drug surveillance sites. Mr President, our country does not have everything it needs to make available and it should have anticipated, on the previous government, that there will be a real reduction in supply and demand. There is no doubt that all the serious countries in Europe - regardless of the famous question of whether users should allegedly take their drug freely and allow drug possession to be carried on to them - and I note Italy, the Netherlands, France, which has very strong communities, with all the appropriate infrastructure. Supervising sites were a form of fashion in the 1970s. They did not achieve these programmes. They've been back in some places, but how? With what infrastructure? With what scientific staff? On what basis will the mayors gather in a place where drug and drug use are permitted? For occupation is forbidden in all countries of the world. They'll be recorded in a record. However, the words ‘on condition that they are registered in the recipient's register’ have been deleted in the preceding series. And if people die in this place, who'll be responsible? Why don't you tell me that the mayors who want to carry out such a project will not be responsible? And with what means? What's actually happening? These programmes are cheap, Mr President, and are based mainly on the logic of non-nuisance, because, among other things, completely unscientific, the article states that they will supposedly be treated. That is not the case. There's not one in the whole world. I would therefore like to express my reservations. If the mayors who wish to do so mean to carry scientific staff from the OkANA or from the CDEH to the municipalities, this will be even more unfavourable. Because in essence and the few treatment programs that exist, they will be destroyed. Mr President, I would like to point out that the reduction in supply and demand continues to remain the two ways in which we can address at least a large part of the problem. There are some who think that because these have not solved the problem completely, it is important to abolish the issue, thinking that we have found a solution. We won't find a solution. This will probably happen, but I am obliged today, from my long experience, to call on the House to reconsider and call on the mayors who are ambitious to solve the problem of roads, I am supposed to say, and to tell you that what is considered by some 'human waste' is not solved and that they are not cleaned up like garbage, which is, of course, the first competence of the mayors. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakou. The speech is given by the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all governments over the last few decades have presented a plan to upgrade civil protection. After every great catastrophe they all talked about extreme weather phenomena, from Eye to Halkidiki, from Mandra to time-driven western Athens, the popular layers are now counting hundreds of dead, huge losses of popular property, housing, crops, livestock capital and infrastructure, sometimes from fires, at times of floods, sometimes from earthquakes, sometimes from industrial accidents. One great disaster comes and follows the previous one and every time the permanent endurance is that politically responsible for deaths and disasters is not there. Cheap propaganda insults the dead from the fires, from earthquakes and floods on the decay, the mud rivers that fill the streets of Athens and all of Greece. Extreme weather is a most convenient idea to cover the deepest cause of the systematic undermining of civil protection, which is no more than serving the interests of the few. Profit is not even able to withstand any of the relevant legislative protection barriers needed to ensure that there is safety of installations, adequate placement, limitation of their operation. That is why any civil protection is, at best, treated as a secondary paradigm, with the result that innocent victims are always innocent. Therefore, since there are substantial risk-protection measures, adequate funding of appropriate structures is excluded, comprehensive planning with a view to the overall modern social needs is excluded, forestry policy and, more generally, land use policy which over time serves the intensity of land marketing, excluding its integrated management, industries the countryside and undermines every inch of land. Completion of this policy is subsistence, lack of personnel, means and infrastructure of the state services, and in particular the Fire Corps, Forest Service, State Health Structures, incomplete training of emergency services, including the Fire Corps, as well as the lack of education and preparedness exercises of the population, the lack of infrastructure necessary to prevent disasters and the possibility of effective implementation of its plans. You can't fool anymore. The innocent victims of floods, fires, large-scale accidents do not generally bear off nature, our bad weather or technology in general, as we often hear. They are burdening your own choices, those who have so far ruled this country and managed the fates of this people. They are burdening the system you support: the marketing of everything, first and foremost of human life itself. That is why your political protection is more or less a empty shirt, since it first and foremost counts people as a cost. The draft law you now bring for vote is revealing. It continues to develop and develop the same political logic of all previous years in this area. The very fact that the bill belongs to the Ministry of Civil Protection is revealing the direction of civil protection that does not focus on effective prevention in advance. It is characteristic that, even at the level of notification, few articles in the draft law relate to risk prevention, and even to these few articles, these are preliminary references without real and essential content. Prevention based on profit logic is essentially self-evident. You say that the national disaster reduction policy takes account of resources, that is to say, with a cost analysis, and it also depends on the other policies of the urban state for development, as determined by the profits of large capital, of course. You even have the wolf guarding the sheep. You put those who are basically responsible for the problem - the associations of capital, the representatives of the productive sector, as you call them - for policy to be formulated themselves, which is supposed to restrict themselves to being disembarked. That's hypocrisy at her takeoff. Gentlemen of the Government, but you gentlemen of the Police Department, are systematically trying to cover up the real problem. Natural disasters occur, but they certainly do not have the extent to which you give them. What certainly has a large extent is the unregulated capitalist development, such as large projects that change the hydrology of areas, destroy forests and shut streams. Technical works are cost-critical and therefore do not protect against earthquakes, which we know are done and will be done in an earthquake region like Greece. Anti-military armour is treated in principle by all of you as a cost and is not done at all and is referred to the ultimate future, or is treated as a prey that the great manufacturers are trying to grab, so that it cannot be done, as the rules of science really require. Furthermore, the intrinsic inability of the system to ensure the health of workers and the safety of the people is not generally and vaguely due to technology, as some people claim. In most cases, so-called technological disasters occur because profit cannot afford prevention and safety. Refinery and gazettes are smashed and crippled by workers, because capital requires that work be done quickly and without appropriate measures being taken, because they are costly. Oil extraction platforms are digging and destroying whole areas on our planet by dismantling economies and environments because of this overall immunity, because groups are saving materials, security measures, time to increase their profits. The draft law is a reactive section in the field of civil protection and it is reactionary, because it is now part of civil protection and of all kinds of anthropogenics, as you say it, which you can also declare an emergency and show your teeth already from the definition of risk. You say that social or economic disturbances are a matter of civil protection. In simple terms, say a strike, a block on a road, a popular mobilisation will be an anthropogenic disaster, and with the draft law you will be able to put various emergency plans into operation. You say that you do not intend to ban major demonstrations, for example, and at the same time bring a legal arsenal to impose cemetery silence on society, but their big businessmen let them use contractive hired workers, unskilled without any experience in high-risk industries where experience and specialisation are necessary. This is what you do, for example, in Kavala fertilisers, the day before yesterday I saw the representatives of the club and the workers, when you let each of the people in such a changing job use unskilled with dangers not only for the workers in the factory, but also for the whole region with the risk of a major industrial accident hanging over the lives of the inhabitants in general, despite the fact that your workers and their union have warned not just a few times, but you all for the capital, the workers who are fighting for you are to blame. Ladies and gentlemen, the organisational structure of civil protection proposed by the project has this character. You are building a hierarchical structure of almost a new civil protection security body that will bring together all the resources available from the whole country to implement the emergency plans that you are going to prepare, and that is why the draft law provides for confidential funds and secret needs, now what they are not exactly what they are telling us. We will not stick to the obvious that the equation of loss of life with economic disturbances ultimately degrade the protection of the people from the real emergency, because your plan is now known, law and order, this is the real goal. You want a stronger repressive urban state with greater means of repression against the people. You arm your system as lobster and that just confirms all our warnings and analyses. We are telling you now that there will be no attempt to restrict the right of the people to protest, resist, claim their right, conflict, and ultimately question the power of the few. And by the way, by the way, you announcing an avalanche auctions, through statements of your ministers, first home. But know that you will also find spades here, because solidarity, struggle against first home auctions can even more strengthen. Nor the peculiarity for popular reactions against the auctions that SYRIZA and you maintain will save you. The draft law you bring does not intend or will be able to aim for the real protection of the people again. It exacerbates the problems further, the gaps, the incomplete application of the relevant regulations which ultimately lead to the current explosive situation. It refers to a number of decisions over a hundred of the Secretary-General for Civil Protection or presidential decrees which will come out shortly later. In practice, this draft law does not have principles, procedures for a number of crucial issues. There are no specific criteria, no planning methodology and guidelines for prevention, for emergency plans, for population education, which is practically nothing. There is still ambiguity and lack of political prevention, for example for distances between activities, to prevent a large-scale chain accident, either on the occasion of an incident in an industrial activity or on the basis of a natural phenomenon such as the earthquake. There are still huge gaps in the absence of streets of mass evasion and free spaces to escape the population. It remains the absence of a substantial framework for an integrated risk assessment taking into account the interaction of factors, the specific characteristics of each region including specific activities, a particular population and others. There is no real provision for the effective information and education of the population, for preparedness exercises involving a whole population and other things. Any references limited to general information, public notices at the stage that will, however, evolve. The problems of the lack of integrated planning and the lack of coordination of the relevant services remain and are exacerbated. Financing from the state budget remains at the current levels that have led to these enormous, unacceptable, tragic deficiencies in all areas of civil protection. The transfer of responsibilities to regions or municipalities without a radical increase in the necessary and qualified staff of infrastructure instruments and state funding will simply perpetuate the current situation. The shortcomings concern all areas of prevention, preparedness to deal with, restore. The privatization and commercialisation of property is also promoted. Fast track projects are allowed to be carried out in contravention of environmental legislation. The situation of workers in the firefighting industry and the changes you bring also have the same character and the same guilty person. It's your deep class choice this mess and say what you want to hide just this. This situation is a reflection of the same policy that sacrifices life and the environment for some profits and is the same as that which cuts wages, pensions, demolishes labour, insurance, social rights. The wild, inhuman pressure of everyday life, the deterioration of the quality of life and the environment all accompany the poverty, the tax burden, the unemployment with which the people live. You're telling us there's no money. You are lying, since at the same time huge sums are given for NATO's military needs, not for the need to defend the country's defence capacity. You tell us that there is no money to prevent and at the same time there are debts of billions in groups or they are exempted from taxation at the same time as they export funds to other countries. In this system that actually has for his God, the profit lies the source of evil and disasters from fires, floods, downhill bridges due to a lack of modern central and scientific design that can only be ensured within a higher organization of society where the purpose of development is indeed to satisfy the social needs alone. And I come to the latter, but not lastly as a hierarchy, it is a very important issue that Mrs Giannakou referred to before. In the Civil Protection Legislation, you have landed and supervised drug use sites. With Article 189, which deals with the operation of supervised sites, in addition to the specific bodies regulated by SYRIZA, it appears that the current government continues to build on the road that was opened to it by the previous government. The unanimity of the other parties on the functioning of supervised sites is, in our view, a highly dangerous development, but at the same time it shows their condolence to the dismantling of prevention and treatment by drug addiction. These areas do not constitute a therapeutic solution, do not create an incentive to cure, only strengthen social tolerance for drug addiction. The Government of New Democracy, as before SYRIZA, enables dry treatment programs to operate specially designed spaces for drug use, adversely affect their character. Truly, what motive for treatment is being shaped and how effective this can be, a healing program that tries to learn a drug-free addict when his own state says he can also have rooms for drug use? At the same time, the government to reduce operating costs, but also the reactions, transfers responsibility to municipalities and regions, with responsibilities which have no responsibility, no know-how, and certainly do not have the right staff, even for mobile units of surveillance facilities. This development shows that you're going to dissolve what's still left of prevention and treatment. This law forms part of a more overall escalation, which consolidates as a key philosophy for dealing with drug addiction the strategy of allegedly reducing the damage. First, the programmes with heroin substitutes were strengthened to manage the problem, and now you are also accepting the use by a state-owned bogeyman, since the use of drugs in the premises in Article 189 is not an illegal act. At the same time, the state, the municipality, the region will have space and doctors to help use, but the user should alone have secured his dose, i.e. on the plates the user will move and that's where he will return. So you're officially accepting the operation of the drug plaque as an official market now. We're just telling you, you don't care about rehab, about the social reintegration of users, but you only care about the management of the problem. You care, you say, just don't die the drug user and not stop being dependent alive - dead. You only care that the user is not visible and spoils Athens' touristic stroll. So what's the solution? The ghettoization and the mantle. Since your system and your policy have pushed thousands of young people into use, dependency, you no longer want them on your feet. What are you doing? You put the problem under the rug so it doesn't look too much! But what does international experience show itself? Since Bern, Switzerland, which was the first supervised use site, to date, in the seventeen official rooms of such supervised drug use in countries of the European Union, the European Drugs Observatory itself, in question raised by the JRC MEPs at the European Parliament's Parliamentary Research Service on 15 January this year, it replied that their function is unknown and that more than thirty-five years have passed now. You know, of course, that there are concerns about their operation and a tendency to close or concentrate these rooms in less spaces, due to high costs than others. The trend towards reducing the injectable use of heroin has also gradually transformed these rooms into sites of use of all kinds of drugs and not into places for the injection of heroin, which was the original design, and that is why they began their operation. So we have full acceptance, full legalisation of drug use and not supposedly protection of death from overdose, as you are trying to argue with us. In France, which operates two rooms in Paris and Strasbourg, they were included in the National Drug Action Plan for six years, precisely because of the great doubt about their effectiveness, while the Medical Association of France itself has expressed its reactions, because it considers that the state has no constitutional obligation to facilitate use. In Germany, where twenty-two municipalities operate, but also two mobile units in Berlin, there is strong criticism not only of the effectiveness, but also of the fact that the dishes have moved around these rooms and are shifted around the mobile units. You know what all this means. The JRC calls on the Greek people and youth through their associations, their associations, to fight against this dangerous development, not to compromise the proliferation of the social death of drug addicts. We call on the prevention agencies, treatment and the medical community to take a stand and condemn this policy of drug management. Finally, it turns out from everywhere that supervised drug sites are not only a solution, but rather a solution. Not only will the JRC follow you, but we will take the lead with all our powers - both in the movement and in the local government everywhere - in order to prevent this policy. We are fighting for a society free of drugs and not for drugs. We call for support, in particular, for prevention, dry treatment and social reintegration. We urge you here and now to withdraw Article 189. Overall we are voting against the bill on civil protection. I am sorry, Mr President, one more word about refugees because it refers to the bill and it is also tragic in the news. They have to close all the hot spots on all the islands instantly. Do not build either closed or open structures on our islands, move to open structures in the mainland for a short time and go from there very quickly on their way of destination. The European Union, instead of whining, opening its doors and accepting refugees from these countries. It is another thing to be caught in one country, such as Greece, that there are over three hundred thousand more than five to ten, fifteen thousand in thirty countries - Member States of the European Union. To abolish Dublin, which is entangled here and the longer you will be subject to it, in Dublin and in the unacceptable agreement between the European Union and Turkey, the worse the situation and we will lead to a new deadlock, beyond what has been created so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u248	Mr Ragus John has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Boutsikakis will be followed by New Democracy and then by Mr Kouvelas Dimitris. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. If, ladies and gentlemen, a question arises from the draft legislation under discussion, I think that is basically the following, which, if the citizens could follow the debate, they will have it on their lips. The question is where to find protection from your political, ladies and gentlemen of the government, discussing this draft law on civil protection. And that is not a form of speech nor a plagiarism, because it is honestly wondered how you may feel today, which you are proposing a bill supposedly on civil protection, in a country that has recently experienced other tragedies like those that had lived in the past and indeed that this bill should be put to the debate on a national delegation that I am hammering. Since this morning, whoever got the floor, even some fellow-presidents, have criticised - now where? - for the bill, for civil protection in a country which has lived through the recent tragedies of the past and beyond. And instead of taking advantage of this attitude, this Timing, this circumstance to do what has happened with the vote of the homosexuals, to set up a committee at the Ministry of Intergroup to process arrangements, which at the end of the day relate to how the country will eradicate fires, face floods, meet earthquakes, natural disasters in general, and so on, you bring here a bill the same as that which one after the other by voting on the Greek Parliament from 1974 to 2009 led the country to bankruptcy. All you care about - yet you are doing - is raising the state, increasing spending and simplifying customer logic. We had precursor symptoms. When a party as a Qualified Opposition was called upon to take a stand on the tragedy in Eye and said what it did and one of the first options and actions is to place a Secretary-General at the Ministry of Citizen Protection the then Chief of ELAS, who was led to resignation as one of the political leaders responsible for the tragedy in Matti, this is a first sign of what government you are and how you are dealing with even these critical issues. But it wasn't the only one. A second precursor sign to get here today was the one that took place on the National Road, which closed - the largest and most decisive road axis of the country that is the National Road of Thessaloniki - and even without having any incident, such as sometimes in the past, some traffic and others. In fact, what do we have now? We have a bill that, yes, enables some to gain the definition of your government. What's the definition now? We can easily now say what your government's definition is. The definition of your Government, the Mitsotakis Government, is a government that comes after the tragedy in Matti - which we saw that the way in which the evacuation decision was enacted by the 2014 Act, by the previous New Democracy government, was fully affected by how a settlement like Matti will be evacuated - and in this bill you will restore exactly the same provisions for the evacuation process of a settlement. What's your government? A second definition, alternatively, is that of the government that when the country has to create through consensus a new framework for civil protection, a newly modernised mechanism, it finds an opportunity to introduce these scandalous regulations on the revenue from civil protection. We have also told you in committee that it is a scandal that you are doing. It's never happened in the country. We waited if we didn't understand anything, and you had a little bit to explain. However, the explanations you have given confirm precisely this complaint to us, that what you are doing is scandalous. Because even the Government's argument 'but this is where we need to introduce classified expenditure, because what we do with cyber attacks' is incomprehensible! What are cyber attacks doing with civil protection? I don't understand. And if there were Members of the New Democracy who did not want to take responsibility for what is to be voted on tonight, they would have to refuse to give their vote to such an arrangement. What are the cyber-attacks that have been heard as an argument for civil protection? Is there not even the NSA that has secret costs and the possibility under the Constitution to use funds without documents? So what do you want to do? You want to do, without documentary evidence, who knows how many millions of euros. And that's all it is. You don't insult self-government in a way of brutality? Has this been done again, the existence of such critical responsibilities by self-government, and indeed - he says - with the logic of postman responsible for civil protection in the regional position? So now listen to meditative! It is a hard core of regional responsibilities that civil protection beside him - someone said correctly, I do not remember, at a meeting - they make the "shoulders" the poster. So, let's say now that we're going to build next to the Minister of Civil Protection a posteriori that's going to take its central responsibility and build a posted Prime Minister! But is that reasonable, is that institutional political logic, administrative logic? I will close, by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that you have done a good job and that you have done half the thing with the floating dams. I disagree with my colleagues from the Civic Opposition. This positive step to put floating dams on the sea makes it half! You should've done it all. You have already given ideas to companies from China and Taiwan, and they have already started building airframe barriers, so we can deal with - Mr Musala, with your humor - the violations that Turkish fighters make. Seriousness zero. Flooding dams to deal with the refugee are as worthy as the airblocks would have to face the violations of Turkish fighters by our own Armed Forces. There's a serious matter. There is a bomb on the ground, right now, of Greek society. It is not the refugee, but it is the administration that you are doing for the refugee, and as all my colleagues have told you - I too want to repeat and close - whatever happens from now on, any riot, any incident - the non-sexual event, any tragic incident, you will have absolute political responsibility for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u250	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-nine students and students and nine educational attendants from the 16th Municipal School of Trikala and the Municipal School of Royal Trikala. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christoforos Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, after this sad position by Mr Ragosi, I would like to say that today we are here to vote on a bill that will shield our country with an effective state mechanism. Because when the state mechanism works, there are real miracles. Take China, for example. To deal with the coronary, thanks to the efficient organization of the state and their speed, the Chinese built two hospitals within ten days with two and a half thousand beds. So let us be an example of them. When the state mechanism works, real lives are saved. Ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, you're tired. You are tired of the communication management of situations such as in Mandra and Eye and your obsession to change nothing in this country. Let's finally go up the bar, modernise, build Greece tomorrow, and not patch the Greece of yesterday, which when the critical moment comes we're looking for who does what and in the end who will take the blame. These passes of yours today end. Ladies and gentlemen, civil protection requires prevention, preparation, early warning and immediate intervention. I am surprised that while every year it is almost certain that we will fight the flames, there has so far been no national risk management mechanism. There was not even a clear distribution of responsibilities at central, regional and local level, that is to say, that those responsible should know who is doing what, so that they can move directly. That is why we are abolishing bureaucracy and simplifying procedures so that decisions can be taken in good time. Because in a disaster even the minute can be critical to save a human life. We upgrade the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and establish the National Coordinating Centre for Operations and Crisis Management. The Fire Corps has a central role to play in civil protection. It doesn't fall short of human resources, exactly the opposite. Thanks to our firefighters, we have not mourned any more victims. What we are actually changing today is the creation of new, decentralised services per territorial region, in order to tackle efficient bureaucracy and delays. We don't share positions for the title. We are establishing a fair procedure for assessing the officials of the Fire Corps so that the perfect ones can be rewarded and promoted. Because a political leader cannot have knowledge of all the matter. We need the experienced strains of the Fire Corps. We need those experts who have designed the procedures and who know what to do with a physical threat. The role of political leadership must be an effective one. However, we also need to address deficiencies in infrastructure, vehicles and air means, especially in our islands, so that our firefighters can intervene in time and that their intervention will work. At the critical moment the key is speed and to have speed, we need to have organisation and coordination. It cannot be done in a disaster of police officers and firefighters desperately trying to salvage everything they can in an uncontrolled chaos. It is not possible at a difficult time for the state mechanism to operate at dock. Last summer our government successfully faced more than two thousand fires throughout the country. So, we could say today that everything is fine, that we are ready. But we are here to catch up. Because, for us, a state means organization, structures and infrastructure. It means the effective functioning of the public administration. Such a state we want. That is why we are organizing a state mechanism for the citizen, with an ally for the citizen. It is this supply of the citizens we have seen growing in recent years through volunteering. Because, badly lies, we are at a time when natural disasters and volunteering are becoming increasingly important. But we do not want a volunteer to replace the gaps in the state mechanism. We want the volunteering of a human being in the state mechanism, which will operate in time and in coordination. Participation in the public is a life-saving attitude, because it concerns us all, regardless of social and economic payments. With our example we must train younger generations, give them a better world of selfless offering. Our priority is to protect the health and property of the Greeks. Our priority is human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u252	The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this country, over time, we were unable to adequately assess the extent of the risk, we underestimated it and the worst, we did not prevent it. Prevention and coordination were absent, with the result that, at times, we were faced with extremely unfavourable situations, which, unfortunately, cost human lives. What should anyone want here first? The fires in Elias, Matty and Mandra? As many years as they pass, they will live in our memories, as a minimum tribute, the tens of our fellow men who have left so unfairly. There is no room for micropolitical and senseless opposition here. No government seeks to jeopardise the lives of citizens. Nevertheless, it is in the hands of the state, but it is also an obligation at the same time to take the necessary preventive measures in time so that our country does not relive such unspeakable tragedies. This draft law comes to implement another commitment by the Mitsotakis Government, with two main objectives. The first objective is to reorganise the great institution of Civil Protection, as well as its operational arm, which is the Fire Corps. Objective 2, to correct any operational weaknesses and structural contagions, particularly at the level of coordination of stakeholders. We are, of course, living in a time of climate change. The changing climatic conditions, which are linked to the major natural disasters in recent years, cause so much concern and debate throughout the world that the existing institutional framework for the organisation and functioning of the Civil Protection Secretariat is now becoming obsolete, incomplete and ineffective, as has been demonstrated in practice. Today we seek the administrative and operational upgrading of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and through this upgrade will come better efficiency, more effective protection of human life, but also of property and, of course, of the greatest perhaps goods, beyond human life, which is the natural wealth of our country and our cultural heritage. Furthermore, until now there has been no single national mechanism for vertical management holistic treatment, from the prevention phase to the restoration phase of any damage arising from natural disasters. On the contrary, there was a fragmentation, a dangerous, as it has proved, on every occasion, overlapping and worst, a conflict of competence between civil protection bodies at national level, at local level, at regional level, a complete confusion, as has emerged in some cases, with dramatic consequences. With this draft law we are moving towards the establishment of a National Risk Management and Risk Management Mechanism, the good standards of the American FEMA and Russian EMERCOM. We are moving towards a vertical structure, with separate coordination bodies, for all levels of administration and all stakeholders. There is now a complete clarification of responsibilities, a clarification of tasks, so that in the event of a crisis everyone knows exactly what to do and from which retreat it must fight its own battle. That was the problem over the years, along with, of course, the inability to prevent. We are moving towards shortening time-consuming crisis decision-making and taking action at strategic, operational and tactical level. We are adopting a modern administrative model, in line with current technological and scientific developments. The Standing Scientific Committee on Civil Protection is being set up, and in this way, we are making progress in ensuring, at the same time, those tools that will help to make use of the scientific opinion, the findings of applied research and technology, innovation, information and communication. With the adoption of the bill, start and operate the European Forest Fires Centre, with the aim of fulfilling this mission and this crisis, which every year we have to pass on to our forests with summer fires, in an ever-changing environment, as has been said by many colleagues, because of climate change. At the same time, the National Database of Risks, Threats and Disasters is being created. Thus, the existing threats, risks and the consequences of any disasters are directly recorded. Accelerating the operational upgrading of emergency plans and the management of consequences through specialisation, depending on the specificities of the risk to be addressed, the specificities of the area threatened by that risk, and of course, depending on the means available to each other. Voluntary organisations - a very important aspect of the bill - with logistical infrastructure, by all means and clearly categorised. A framework is established for the operational involvement and integration of volunteers in the National Civil Protection Mechanism. We move on to the establishment of a National Coordinating Centre for Operations and Crisis Management and the individual units that will coordinate and assist this project. I shall refer only to the unit of the emergency number, 112, which is finally working. The National School for Crisis Management and Risk Management will have administrative and financial autonomy, with the spear's edge the Fire Academy. Only in this way, with education, will the culture of social responsibility and of supply be cultivated, which must be distinguished by bodies which are the operational arm, but also by volunteers who are involved. At this point I would like, Minister, to address a number of issues relating to the Fire Corps. We've all recorded labels made by firefighters, and I think it's good to hear them. I shall put forward a number of points for the Minutes, which I consider to be just, from the point of view of the recognition of the profession as dangerous and unhealthy, to the point of view of building infrastructure. Five-year firefighters are finally asking for their other colleagues to be equated at all levels, not just simulation but also wages. I share this view because there cannot be two categories of fire extinguishers within the same House. The issues that have been raised in your mind, Minister, which relate to the renewal of the infrastructure fleet, even of the buildings, are also very important, because the more outdated is equipment, instruments and vehicles, the greater the risks for fire-fighting themselves, apart from being able to adequately address the danger. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is understood that this draft law best organizes civil protection at structure level and efficiency. It is time for the Greeks to start feeling that the state is on their side and takes all necessary steps to make everyday life better, but also safer. We have been moving in this direction for the last seven months, so we will continue. I present for the Minutes a series of documents from the Macedonian fire extinguishers' associations - Thrace, North Aegean, Halkidiki. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Xantopoulos Theophilus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have chosen to speak about a section of the draft legislation, a section relating to my professional activity and to my scientific training, that is to say, Article 185 which deals in practical terms with the issues of the relocation and reconstruction of the Korydalos Booking Store. By this regulation, the Government takes a step forward in the way it thinks about public goods, its perception of the critical areas of public life and its non-moved decision to install everywhere individuals. Following the incorporation of the penitentiary system into the competence of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which is an institutional originality, it moves into the penitentiary system, which I will explain later on how exactly it perceives the operation of a top-level process of the narrow core of the state. So you say, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that Article 185 provides for the possibility of carrying out the work of the construction of new installations - we are always talking about the prisons of Korydalos - and the provision of related support services that do not affect the core of the state. The impressive thing is that this is where you are avoiding saying where these powers are assigned. It is obvious that they are assigned to individuals. Furthermore, there is a very serious question, because explicit reference is made to Article 50 of Law 4412/2016. 'What does the poet want to say', therefore, in that there is a possibility that the use or exploitation of the work carried out may be granted? So, will prisons be built and run by a private person as a kind of contractor? So do we realise that we are handing over a part of the hard core of the state that is the penitentiary and justice policy to private individuals to operate on terms of private business? Isn't there a barrier anywhere in the rubbish of individuals? Minister, you're a legal officer and you've done the law. You are asked to answer explicitly whether there is or is not any thought of privatising the penitentiary system. It is an issue that we need to discuss. There are ideological and political disagreements here, and the National Representation and the Greek society must understand the challenge of this article, Article 185. There is a negative international experience, but you are turning your back. Every time privatization of a critical public life sector has no effect, it is none of your business. See what happened with the railroads in England. Their republics are reintroducing them. The same penitentiary system was followed in both America and England. They got private, then, to manage the penitentiary systems. The system has failed for two reasons. The first reason is the absolutely institutional one, because private individuals, who are interested in winning, are pushing through lobbying to tighten sentences and increase the number of detainees so that they can make the most profitable. On the other hand, there is an outbreak of interacting between legislative power and prison businessmen, which is burdened by our already deprived political system. You also realise that this is the state-owned entrepreneurship in its depository, because here we have a mechanism for the award of justice, which justice imposes penalties which need to be served in prisons and then the private person comes in and takes these prisoners and from these prisoners and the operation of the penitentiary seeks to make a profit. And the next phase comes, which is reasonable and inherent to the operation of the private business. We need to compress the prison's operating costs by every means. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen of the majority? This means compressing the cost of food and the cost of heating. There is also a very serious problem, which I say in his capacity as a professional. It's the cost of reintegration. This whole history of prison operation becomes less to punish the perpetrators and more to give them a chance to reinstate themselves into society as a whole. In private prisons, in terms of private profit, all these institutions operating in prisons and looking after the reintegration of prisoners will not be long-term. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Mr President. Today they operate in prison schools for prisoners, second- opportunity schools, workshops, exhibitions of painting and engraving. There is a very nice report with works by the detainees, which was not made this year - and we are committed by the government to doing so - and it has been postponed for practical reasons. All this institutional arsenal is at risk. In Drama, we have the Nikiforos prisons that are complete. It is at a stage when the AACC will be opening the tender for filling the operating positions. So this project, which was done with the Greek State's money, will be delivered to the private person, or will the provision apply only to the store of Korydalos described in paragraph 1 of Article 150? Ladies and gentlemen, the logic of the argument is the bottom. You started subjecting the penitentiary system to the Ministry of Citizen Protection. Proceed with the privatisation of the penitentiary system and its possible assignment to private individuals. You are shaking the narrow core of the state with only the private profit, and that is something that cannot pass through society and cannot stand in a favoured European country with a private system of penitentiary policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u256	Mr Voloudakis Manos has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Chrysomalis, Mr. Avramakis, Mr. Haritou and Mr. Tsipras will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a brief reference to the amendment tabled today by the Minister for Migration Policy, which regulates some issues of the Ministry and creates a register of members of non-governmental organisations dealing with immigration and asylum issues. It is certainly a positive move, a positive arrangement. There is now a register of these organizations, but without their members being recorded. Moreover, in order to legally operate on Greek territory non-governmental organisations dealing with immigration and asylum issues, it becomes compulsory for the state to know which members are, to have been certified and to be able to control. That's very good. This is not the end, however, of the need to monitor the action of non-governmental organisations. There is another very important point, which we have already mentioned from the Step, nothing has been done yet, I want to believe that the new Ministry will include it in its programming. There is also a need to monitor the financing of non-governmental organisations dealing with immigration and asylum. These issues relate to national security. We therefore have a right to know who is financing these organisations. I think it is something that needs to be done as soon as possible because migration flows are growing dramatically. We are facing a very big problem right now. The Greek state must show that at the moment we have changed to address this problem. In the same way, in the same way, we need to see as soon as possible refunds from those who are not entitled to asylum and in much larger numbers than those we have seen so far. I now come to the bill of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which we are discussing today the new management mechanism, the National Crisis Management Mechanism and the provisions on firefighting. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, our homeland has suffered from the lack of such a mechanism. We have recently come to mourn victims in Matti and Mantra and to see these victims, to mourn them because, among other things, there was no appropriate coordination, adequate coordination between the agencies. Even now, such a mechanism is coming, which I believe will be effective. It seems at one reading to be complete, global, and I would say that it is also a model for other areas of public policy, where there is a duplication of competence between operators and services in our home country. This is one of the problems both with civil protection and crisis management, which - to a very large extent, I believe - with this bill. The same spirit should be extended to any policy areas that are facing similar problems. But I would like to make a special reference to Rule 82, as I did in committee when we discussed it. Article 82 shall designate fire-fighting business coordinators throughout the territory. It therefore shares the entire territory in six regions in which it is headed by localities. The sixth region is a huge area on the map: northern Aegean - south Aegean - Crete. It is the largest area in all regions, and of course it has the additional difficulty in managing islands. The coordinator's seat now, in this vast area, is in Samos. I'm not a fire extinguisher. With common sense, I can say that, Minister, that is not reasonable. Not only is Crete the most populous area of this large region, it also has the greatest fire risks: It has the largest surface, mountainous soil, extensive forest areas. If anything happens in Crete - oh, non-genus - it will have much more scope and consequences than in one of the Aegean islands. So why should the coordinator's seat be in Samos? When we discussed this in committee, the Secretary-General replied to me that he should be in the middle of the region and be identified, because in the middle of the area it must be the air transport unit. Right? I say now that the coordinator is not the head of the air transport unit, so in other regions you do not even make that a match. I understand that you're putting the airborne unit in the middle, I don't understand why the coordinator should be in the middle of the globe and not where the real burden is. The real weight, with a overwhelming difference from the rest of the region, is in Crete. In Crete, therefore, the head office of the coordinator must be located. That makes no sense. I want you to fix it. You can correct it either by transferring the seat or, in any case, by creating another region, since the powers are the same. I don't think this as a cost would be something special. You should look at it, because when we discuss these issues, we obviously all take our responsibilities for what happens in the future. I don't want to be in danger. In any case, however, the needs of Crete, the risks faced by Crete are greater in terms of fire-fighting, and that is where I believe it should be the seat of the coordinator. Do not let, Minister, a piece of legislation, which I believe is really innovative, radical, solves chronic problems, do not let it have shadows on any subject, even if it relates to geographical distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u258	The next speaker is Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, Minister, Mr General, ladies and gentlemen, in order to solve a problem, we have to see what the targeting is, which we want to go and what the data are on them. I think it's clear what the targeting is. The country, the Greek society, can't stand Matty anymore, can't stand any more Mandra, can't stand any more of our fellow citizens' losses from natural disasters like those we've lived in. That's the targeting. They are losses that are not due both to the intensity of the disaster, but to the state's inability to offer adequate prevention, early warning, real coordination of confrontation forces and therefore, substantial protection for our fellow citizens. These are the data and we need to improve, because so far we have failed. It does not need to be an expert to understand the maze of responsibilities and the failure to monitor and coordinate the number of actors involved each time in tackling a major natural disaster. Of course, it doesn't have to be an expert to perceive the "hidden" behind the responsibilities or transfer responsibility when the disaster costs human lives too. Unfortunately, we have lived through this in recent years. This lack of coordination and management covers the draft law we are discussing today, creating a vertical structure throughout the country, with clear responsibilities and responsibilities for all involved. We are not claiming original laurel, we have not discovered powder, and we are not infallible, but we are doing what is self-evident, legislating the basis of political protection in our country, with common sense and based on international knowledge and our bitter experience from the failures of the past. The government's proposal is clearly and will be tested in practice. And here we are, if there are imperfections to improve. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I would expect you to be brave or at least, I would expect you to have had the courage to vote on this bill as an indirect apology, as a meea culpa towards what happened in your own period of governance. Why, not only did you become what was done, this disaster in Matty and Mandra, but while you brought about how many drafts by election, you didn't bring one for civil protection. You left it in an endless consultation. And you do not now have the courage to vote on this bill, yet you also criticise us that - allegedly - it circumvents self-government, creates an even more complex system, as if the previous one did. I'd expect a more brave attitude. But, as you have judged yourself to be a government, you are also judged of your attitude as an Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of crises and natural disasters cannot be carried out either through sculpture of responsibilities or, of course, through dialectical methods, requires clear and detailed plans, as well as a tight and thoroughly controlled vertical organisational structure. This is what we are creating today with the establishment of the National and thirteen Regional Political Coordinators. At the same time as energising the National Coordinating Business and Crisis Management Centre and thirteen Regional Centres, a single central management mechanism with clear competences and tasks is formed, which reduces decision-making time. And this is the most important, most critical factor, as it directly manages the means of each body, without the approval of other services and of course has an accountability and a specific framework of responsibility for our fellow citizens. These fourteen governors will be the ones who will be responsible for the proper functioning of the mechanism. They will be responsible for the correct and effective implementation of the project and will be judged. The national coordinator is appointed by the government, one, one, and will be judged for its selection, as will the thirteen regional directors be appointed and judged for their selection. So no party army is being created. Let's get this straight. The new legislative framework also gives all those tools to civil protection needed to prevent disasters properly. Apart from existing general projects, special crisis management plans by municipalities and regions are established, adapted to the particular geographical, morphological and demographic requirements of each region, which will make use of risk analysis and threat analysis for each region from the newly established national risk, threats and disasters database. In addition, these plans will also include the procedures for the decision-making and organisational evacuation management of citizens. At the same time, there is provision for the possibility of a region being declared a special mobilised in the face of a threat and not only in an emergency, as was the case until now after the disaster. This allows for a better preparation of the mechanism, a concentration of the necessary means and materials and, of course, preparedness in the face of any possibility. The draft law also establishes the possibility through the General Secretariat of approval, within three months, of important prevention projects such as cleaning, opening up roads and fire-fighting zones, building small anti-military projects, with a view to better and especially early preparation to address possible disasters. Those with experience from local government know very well how much time and licenses have to be obtained in order for a municipality to proceed to such projects. This is solved by this bill as well. An important section is the introduction of an operational, effective system of civil protection volunteering, with the aim of promoting the voluntary movement and strengthening it in materials and instruments, introducing rules, making better use of and, of course, the institutional protection of the volunteers of each category involved in the treatment of disasters. The establishment of an official civil protection structure and the operational risk prevention and management fund is a very good thing, Mr Generally, because it will also prepare us for the funds for the 2021-2027 programming period. We will be ready and able to use it to the full. Finally, the establishment of the National Crisis Management and Risk Management School and the Crisis Management Study Centre, as well as the reorganisation and modernisation of the Fire Corps provided for in the bill, create a modern body of education and research in the field of civil protection, with better use at every level of the personnel of the Firehouse that is in any case the backbone of civil protection. Of course, here, Mr General, we also need to look at the subject of seasonal firefighters. In conclusion, I would like to say a half word about the amendment tabled. I do not understand why you are not voting on the draft of the Civil Protection. I fully understand, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why you do not want to vote on this amendment, who are your intimate fears. Is it accidental that today when the amendment was tabled, illegal immigrants have risen up on the islands? He'll show. However, with this amendment, the staff of non-governmental organisations involved in immigration are recorded, and I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Voloudakis, that the funding of these non-governmental organisations should be controlled. Efficiency, also through this amendment, in the local annual grant society, depending on the number of migrants hosted and the creation of a solidarity fund for the financing of return projects are also a proof that the government and project have about immigration and implement it in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would expect more braveness on your part. Society judges us and is certain, as it judged us in the previous elections, I think it will judge us in the next. Seems from your standpoint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u260	Mr Avramakis Eleftherios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u261	Starting with my speech and beyond the bill, I would like to make two comments - pointing out. I cannot comment on the topicality of the statements by two top government actors, and I am speaking about that by Mr Adonis Georgiades, in his statement that the first residence should not be protected, and indeed that its protection causes and damage to the economy and, of course, the statement by the Deputy National Security, adviser to Prime Minister Mr Doku, who spoke about the Aegean. These are two statements which are completely condemnable and which give the public a genuinely free impression. On the occasion of the debate here, I cannot make reference to the majority colleague, Mr Boutsikaki, when he spoke of a state that needs to be modernised, and of bringing China's standards that in ten days' time can operate a floating hospital, unfortunately in Greece of 2020 we need a cologne date to arrive at the date of 2022. You understand the chaotic difference that divides us and what an effort we have to make as a society and a state as a whole. Nor can I welcome the position of Mr Kouvella, who has rightly raised this issue here, regarding non-party exploitation - confrontation of events and of human tragedy, such as the one that happened in Matti, Elia, Mandra. We must all, as a political system, at least silence ourselves guilty of these people for their timeless illnesses, mistakes that may have been made. We must work in the direction of not repeating these tragedies or minimising at least, in the sense of reducing the loss of human lives. As far as the bill is concerned, the New Democracy as a government, even late, is beginning to understand reality. It is beginning to understand the consequences of climate change. It begins to understand the extreme weather phenomena and the consequences they can cause in people's lives. The first crucial stage is the assumption of the problem in order to be able to discuss and seek solutions. Unfortunately, however, the government is far from finding credit solutions. We are discussing a bill dealing with emergency needs and crises that it intends to organise the state mechanism in order to respond as quickly as possible to the need for coordination in situations that threaten human lives and property. Even in this, however, the bill sees dispersed provisions for the destruction of public funds, for opaque project award procedures to state-owned entrepreneurs, for the settlement of the party army. To deal with New Democracy children and grandparents, you are not stopping anywhere. Once again, you create a bureaucratic monster, a civil protection system that seeks coordination. The decision to evacuate a settlement will be taken by a posted official, neither by the municipality that knows the region nor by the region. A poster, with doubtful knowledge of local data, will order evacuation. You are overpowering the Secretary-General for Civil Protection, who acquires responsibilities corresponding to or above his political leader, the Minister. You are transferring to the Secretary-General even the Prime Minister's powers, such as the task of means and personnel. You provide him with confidential funds to manage without even informing the Minister, without answering why the Civil Protection needs separate confidential funds. You are looking at the results of the consultation between the local government and the previous government of SYRIZA, which has resulted in an emergency plan that will have a decisive role to play by local government. But you don't stop there. You reform the training structures of the Fire Corps, not to improve even more the training of fire extinguishers already on an excellent level, but to create more positions for your party executives. Instead of seeing the needs for more education where needed, instead of seeing the need for restructuring in specific areas, such as Serres Prefecture, you upload structures, incorporate them into new agencies with new administrations and new needs in human administrative and scientific capacity, where you will settle partisanly, without even respecting the pretexts. Most of the multi-project you've finally brought is a charter of set-up, mainly returnees. Once you do not set some criteria and some scientific skills that could actually mark something different, the only criterion that remains is the relevant experience. So you are intended to settle retired persons throughout Greece, assisting and regulating the Ministry of Labour that cancels the reduction of their pension. What is the need for the proliferation of the top officers of the Fire Corps? We must be the only country in the world with this ratio of senior officers in the Security Corps and the Armed Forces. The sloppyness with which you are even dealing with issues of transfer, development and classification of fire extinguishers proves that you have not dealt with the substance of the industry's problems. Firefighters, especially in the province, know better than anyone else their area of responsibility, know all the streets, even the rural streets, know paths, fire-fighting zones, fire-fighting rings. Their integration into a permanent transmission system will affect their operational capacity today, so that they can respond quickly to what is needed. They do not belong to the bodies that require their movement for other reasons, but it is crucial that they know not only the city but also the whole prefecture that may be called in. As far as the five-year-olds that have been legitimized are concerned, you still treat them as below. You are interested in their qualifications and their real years of service, rank them in a yearbook from 2017 onwards, even if they have completed twenty years of actual service. In practice, you will force firefighters five years of obligation to move several kilometres, assimilating them to meet needs, but not assimilating them wages so that they can respond to long-distance travels. The dilemma of this bill, however, is the famous state that you have created and you are constantly correcting. It turns out once again that for the New Democracy the only issue to manage as a government was that of communication. Transfer the responsibilities of the penitentiary stores to the Ministry of Citizen Protection and forget to transfer the necessary staff from the Ministry of Justice who knows the issue of prisons and can deal with them. The penitentiaries have too many problems. The New Democracy is only interested in transferring the Korydalos prisons. The delay in the recruitment of external guards combined with the departure of municipal police have caused problems that need to be addressed immediately. In Nigrita prison, external guards are now enough to meet shift needs and are hard to respond to the necessary transfers. Today, sixty - seven people are serving, and the next sixty - five will become with the departure of the last two municipal policemen. Needs are covered by cutting off the guards. You are prolonging - and you are doing well - the six-month contracts, but in Serres we do not unfortunately have such employees. So we want immediate reinforcement of the penitentiary. In conclusion, I will make a reference to the resolution of the draft law on the restructuring of the Fire Corps and say that it is imperative to highlight the local problems of the Serres Prefecture in relation to the question of the Fire Service. It is a service that has been taking care for decades of security and protection of the life and property of citizens and the state. We ask for the upgrading of the Prefecture Fire Service on the following axes. Upgrade the Serres Fire Service to Class I fire station. Nigrita PK belongs administratively to this. Financing for the construction of a new building on an existing property plot of the Fire Corps. Upgrade of the Climb Firefighting Climb at Class IV Firefighting Station with the Upper Poros under his command. Upgrading of the Climb Firefighting Climbs at Class IV Firefighting Station with the New Zichnik PK belong to it, as well as the establishment of a national stadium fire extinguisher at the New Krone node. We consider this need imperative because it will be immediately upgraded and it is necessary to provide services to the citizens of the county, and these results will be very good in terms of citizens' safety, better service provision and new jobs and a contribution to the development of our region. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u262	Next speaker, Mr Charitou Dimitrios, from SYRIZA. Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Davakis, Mr. Dritsas will be followed. After Mr Dritsa, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the existing civil protection framework has had a traumatic impact on the consciousness of the Greek society because it has not been able to protect it in critical situations. A society, gentlemen, that is experiencing the climate crisis more than we are counting. That is why her concern is justified and reasonable. You're not original, gentlemen, in the need for the bill you filed. We have prevented you from having to change with the draft we had been in consultation. Unfortunately, we did not have time to complete the legislation. You have not, of course, told us that the arrangements you have put forward are in line with the mature changes that the civil protection system currently needs. In fact, gentlemen, you are setting up a new superstructure that is not yet known to evolve in its range. A structure with a General Secretariat for Civil Protection with responsibility for the types of the Ministry and thirteen appointed regional coordinators. Structure that comes to build on decentralised and non-centralised services, regions and municipalities. If you copy from somewhere else this model was only in your mind the region of Attica, I might have understood you. Obviously, there'd still be a problem. But if you've had all the regions then you're probably more complicated. You accumulate new problems. That is why our concern about any developments is now being put forward. I am not referring, gentlemen, only to the arrangements where the General Secretariat for Civil Protection becomes uncontrolled. I mean the fact that, without regulation, it has at its discretion the management of everything, as referred to in Article 10, for the framework for emergency management, but not just. It is not just the inadmissibility of the existence of secret funds in civil protection, but it is not even clearly described in what an emergency you are talking about. You have not, at least to date, been used to us in merital choices. I am referring to the thirteen regional coordinators you appoint. On the contrary, you have shown us. The most important thing, however, is that with the new structure you set up, you create a new level of coordination and mandates. Everyone, but everyone, coordinates. So who makes the decision? Who's responsible for? Is it going to spread between the coordinators? Between coordinators and sectarians? What is the point, gentlemen, when you are not dealing with critical issues of civil protection? In an event or a potential threat, who will make an assessment of the situation? You're telling us the first correspondents. Wonderful. Let me remind you that they do not operate either through the coordination centre or with the scientific community. In other words, they lack proper information. Instructions shall be given to assess and transfer the actual status of the events. Do you know what the result will be? What happened to this day. Others will move the police who usually get the information, elsewhere the stakeholders are involved. The Vice-President will learn the incident from facebook, the Civil Protection Director from journalists calling him. Unfortunately, that is the reality, gentlemen of the government. Let me ask you, Minister. Really, why didn't you adopt the role of the commander of an incident that we proposed in our draft law on civil protection, when it is known to be an internationally successful practice? With the arrangements you are planning, no one will have the real picture of the situation. With ambiguity, confusion, duplication of competence and without a clear information flow system one thing is certain: the whole civil protection system will become completely ineffective. You are showing, gentlemen, the existence of the appointed regional coordinator. As well as a fixed-term coordinator. That's the truth, gentlemen. Do you seriously believe that the problems encountered, for example in dealing with the fires in Thassos or the floods in Evros, are due to the lack of an appointed coordinator? Do you really believe it? Can you think that civil protection will be made more effective by transferring the decision-making centre to a regional level rather than to a municipality or regional unit? With the Vice-Regional Adviser in an observer's word? With the expert policy addresses on the margin? Because that's where you drive them. Without at the same time providing for anything to be done to compensate civil and service staff. Nor, of course, will you make any reason for any tools that are so necessary today in order to deal with the situation? Gentlemen, do you think there will be mayors, districtlors hiding behind post-call coordinators? There's probably a few of them. It is certain, however, that the majority of them will be involved, and then it will become even more complicated, not to say chaotic. Because they obviously also have tools and mechanisms. Because you may put post-call coordinators, but, as you know, the hereditaries cannot avoid the political cost of any consequences arising from major incidents. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft submitted does not meet the real needs of security and security of society. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Tsipras George has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I will confine myself to Articles 185 and 186 on the Relocation of the Korydalos Booking Association. First of all, I would like to clarify something: it is necessary for the guards to leave Korydalus. It is not usually the case that we have prisons inside the urban fabric and have precedents for decades of the Corydal people to leave prisons. But prisons go to another city and completely symptomically go back to West Attica. First of all, Minister, you have despised the National Representation and the local authorities in the most intense way. You take a decision, without the minimum consultation of the local authorities, with the municipalities, as well as with various bodies. Officers of the Anti-Population Officers have submitted three requests for documents and have been addressed with the funny argument, not to give the conclusion of the committee that the prisons should go to Korydalos and that it contains confidential information concerning military facilities. First of all, let me tell you that how secret the evidence is, it is apparent from the fact that the facilities are inactive and there is a recent photography from journalists visiting the facilities. But let us say that some elements are confidential. Is it possible for prisons to go from one place to another and not to know the Greek people, the Parliament and the local authorities on the basis of which criteria they are going there? I imagine you're aware that there are whole CIA reports that come out of publicity, which are, on purpose, classified, and, of course, there's the usual practice if something is classified to delete and get the rest of the finding out. We do not know exactly who was involved in the committee. Of what we know, however, the criteria with which they go to Aspropyrgos have nothing to do with any social impact study for the region, only with the needs of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Justice. Is that possible? From the Koridalos they do not leave because of the needs of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Civil Protection. That's the secondary one. The main thing is that they must leave through the urban fabric and stop the social consequences of the Korydallos prisons to the residents of Korydalos. And we're going to take these to Aspropyrgos? You have despised, therefore, that the national delegation ought to know why they are going. There was no consultation with the local authorities and it was against the Municipality of Elefsina, the Municipality of Aspropyrgos and the residents of the region. And I come from our side to the issue of social impact. There have been dozens of international studies of the consequences of prisons, not only in the urban fabric of prisons, but even if it is a little far from the urban fabric. The conclusions of almost everyone are as follows: firstly, there are no positive economic effects in either the narrow or the wider area of the prison facility. Secondly, there will be an unseen impact on the economics of the municipalities and on wastewater treatment, infrastructure, biological cleansing, lighting, schools. There may be consequences of an outbreak of crime in the region, an already burdened area. The reputation of the proposed areas in the long term is affected as prison towns. It's the prison towns, which are usually avoided. And there is a drop in interest outside related services, around prison activities, even if there is any intake, which will not be, because recruitment is done through central services. There is a temporary reduction in unemployment due to some jobs. Overall and in the long term we have the exact opposite, namely an increase in unemployment. There will be an impact on housing flows as well as on investments. There is already a need for additional social services without such planning. The whole area enters in a twenty-five-year adjustment period for which there is no design at all. Finally, something about prisons and prisoners is the greatest distance and alienation of their family members, etc. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] And I come to the issue of the West Attica in particular. It's far from us, away from the Civic Anti-Civilization and SYRIZA, the logic of leaving something from us, going to the next municipality, next to the district, and saying. But the West Attica is a special case, and that is where this logic applies, and it is because it is the most influential area not of Attica, all of Greece. There is a policy of decades - and before and after the junta, of all governments - 'what is left over'. Whatever Athens and other areas of the country want to get rid of, they get rid of it in West Attica. Let me tell you that there are the two largest refineries, to tell you that there is the largest dump in Europe, to tell you that there is a series of noisy industries, eighteen of the twenty-one Seveso industries are in the Triumph. Also, let me tell you that there is a huge sea front in Elefsina, but almost zero access to the sea of Elefsina's residents. Of course, huge urban, spatial anarchy, especially in the Municipality of Aspropyrgos. This problem is not solved, in compensatory terms, by taking the prisons there. Compensation should be given to existing activities in a depopulation plan for the area, reorganisation of the area and construction on the basis of a certain plan. Not to load more, suggesting compensatory. The attitude of local residents, local communities and municipalities is very clear. I expect to see more of the local MPs. Those in my mind are against and I expect to hear about this issue. I ask you to make this decision back. Of course we will vote against.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u266	Thank you for the time economy, too. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, since this morning I have been following the attempt of Officer Opposition to stand up to this bill as well. An effort, which focuses mainly on the lame argument that "we had a ready bill, much better than yours and you should also see it and implement it". Somehow that's what he's telling us. 'We did not have time, however,' said one colleague earlier. You did not have time, because you alone have provoked elections. The political time was still in place and you could exhaust it. In any case, I think that these pretexts can no longer be upheld and must be stopped for so-called political culture, but also for the modernisation of our political speech, given that the 100 deaths of Matti and the others of Mandra are calling us, in the memory of whom we must call, for a bill to be put together, so that we can give answers to the great, serious problems, which are often accumulated in our place from the weather, from the natural disasters and from all that they make, in particular, every year a land of destruction, I would say. And here you also seemed to be opposing reality, opposing the need for the country, the state, the society, the citizens and our people, who have brought us here for something modern and something shallow and effective, what is this bill that the government has brought today. I believe that we must now get away from and overcome our evil opposition self. In such bills there is a splendid field of glory - and I close with it - to opposition, to burn down, to locate, to create what you want and think you will get popular consent or popular sympathy. Before all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Mitterraki's amendment on the registration of non-governmental organisations. Indeed, non-governmental organisations are collecting money which has to do with their operation and with their overall work. However, they are doing work on immigration and national security. The Greek people demand that we know them, the Greek people demand that we know what they are, so that there is the control mechanism, which is introduced today by this amendment. I think it is an effective move, so that there will also be the consent of the Greek people to a great problem which is sobbing and migratory. Minister, this National Mechanism for the Management of Crisis and Risk Management, which is laid down in this bill, is indeed giving an answer, I would say, to the management and executive problems that we are dealing with here above all. Of course, many times this is happening. Instead of bringing it up, I schematically say it in various speeches from this Step, bills on problems, we must once the state law becomes this bill to create those conditions so that it is directly effective and directly applicable. I believe that the Secretary-General, Mr Chardalias, has a concentrated experience and, I would say, thank you, despite the short time in which he has managed his responsibilities. It has several possibilities and experience to make the bill effective and enforceable. It is planned to set up new interministerial bodies such as the Commission for the Planning of National Policy on Civil Protection and drafting institutional texts such as the National Risk Reduction Policy. This all creates the framework so that the institutions concerned must move, implement decisions and orders so that they can be effective and confirmed as a reason why we are now legislating. I want to talk a little bit about the fire brigade. The body of the fire department is being restructured. This is an ancient, let us say, a body that wants radical sectors and radical movements of modernisation. I would like here to identify the issues relating to the instruments and materials of the Fire Corps, in addition to the great comparative advantage of the manpower, the executives of the Fire Corps. I come from an area that I honor and love has given their lives in the field of fire necklace. We need these executives to look at them a little bit further. I would like to say, Minister, one thing you will know. The Commander of the Areopolis Fire Service in Mani, who is affected every year by fires due to the storms in the summer, has to deal, in addition to the operational sector, with patrols and incidents, with fire safety, inquiries, PSEA, extraordinary checks, complaints, cleaning payments, follow-up of cases and the imposition of administrative fines, and two ongoing ESAs, over five hundred days from the service until the end of June, plus his permissions. I leave the vehicles. There's a vehicle in the Architecture Fire Department, just like all the fire stations, which is a year of construction 1974. He's an order and he's in the garage. Another vehicle is off the run after it was in November 1997. Another vehicle is out of service due to a civilian car. The situation is very difficult. This has been happening at all fire stations in recent years. There must be a way of creating a better picture of the media, cars, tyres, fire-extinguishers' uniforms and all that will make us say that it is a body that we support technically in terms of material means so that these people can do their jobs better. I do not know, however, but, Minister and Secretary-General, the question of the support of the officials of the Fire Service to see it specialised, because there is an antiquated fleet of cars, but also problems in terms of supplying their uniforms, from the clays and everything else. Furthermore, one last point which I think you should see during this intervention is the modernisation of services. We are listening to a constant request from the fireworks unions to move from Class 2 to Class 1, Class 2, Class 3. You need to see something. This suffocating I, II, III class I think can be done by interfering with the risk, the proportion of the incidents, the serious issues that have to do with the area where this Station is located, rather than the First and Second Classes, so that it refers to staff and other means. He wants deep sections of the Fire Service. I am sure, of what you have shown so far, you will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. Mr. Theodore Dritsas has the floor. Mr. Dritsa, please, just a little attention in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. In the seventh month we are now in a government mandate of the Government of New Democracy, it is now clear that we have a phenomenon of overproduction and over-consumption of legislative initiatives and legislative work and an impoverishment and inadequacy of policy. It is precisely what explains why very often the phenomenon, which we have never had before, appears to be a bad piece of legislation. It can't be done otherwise. It's an endogenous problem. And I say 'bad legislation', why is it possible, for example, to abolish the Ministry of Migration Policy and then a few months later to re-establish itself? How can it be legislated, and in an urgent last minute's amendment, 'why was it absolutely necessary', the National Coordinator and now confined to some individual responsibilities and the Ministry of Migration Policy coming to organise all this? I think that exactly, the ghost of the National Coordinator's model has affected the inspirations of this bill. Because the problem is indeed a real one and a serious one. The need for a holistic, modern and effective national crisis management and risk management mechanism is imperative, not only because the tragedies in Matti, Mandra and elsewhere have occurred, but because, over time, despite improvements and best functions in many cases of the Greek state and of the services on various issues that have arisen in connection with the endless past, there are still gaps in very important and very large, which consist, especially when it comes to civil protection, precisely when it comes to the prevention, operational preparedness and end of coordination and responsibility, and many other things that go hand in hand. But, in order to coordinate with delegation and then take responsibility, you must have calculated that the Greek state, like each state and every state, has multi-level structures which are legally and legally identified, tested in practice, functionally de facto. In other words, it has, apart from the Police, the Port Authority, the Fire Corps in this regard, which is central to EKAV, has the Ministry of Health, it has university institutions, it even has private volunteers, it has too many structures that, in order to coordinate it, must be coordinated, that is to say, sufficient. So, that's where someone needs to start, and that's where we started our plan. Mr. Davaki, don't deceive it. No government has finished its work when it completes its mandate, but it has left some loose ends. That was a job we did very systematically. Indeed, we arrived at one point, it was not completed and then in October we tabled the proposal for a law, you have it, the Greek Parliament has it, and it can carry out evaluations. We therefore considered that coordination requires coordinated structures, that is to say adequate structures, and that the upgrading of know-how in the civil protection of all of them, of self-government as well, is the primary one. The primary thing is not to find the one who coordinates. This as a finding is relatively simplistic. It doesn't really work. As a case of work may be an idea, but it cannot be operational. For this draft law, which the government is proposing today, without the necessary consultation at all levels needed, it is a paper project. We do not wish it to fail, because if it fails it can have very tragic consequences when the Greek state cannot face high-risk situations. But we are concerned that responsibilities of dubious constitutionality have been exceeded precisely because every structure of the Greek state has its function and its role and cannot be abolished and replaced by another. And that's what this plan does. It is confusing, it is contradictory, it is unequivocal, it is powerless in many things and finally in some births and questions about whether or not it has customer objectives, or not, there are clear indications in many parts of this bill. And all this with an extreme centralised strengthening of the powers of a Secretary-General. It's not that coordination, it's not a coordination guarantee. There is one thing we will say: 'It is his fault', he says nothing, we are not looking for those who are to blame. We are looking for the structure that will adequately serve the needs of the Greek people in every particular extraordinary treaty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, for a moment. From this point of view, we cannot put any further emphasis on the fact that, when all the debate has been held in the committee responsible, and today, no response has been given to the excellent confidential funds provided for in Article 53. There is no political protection and secret funds, there is no justification, it is a 'innovation'. Will this innovation not be explained? Is it so simple for the Greek Parliament to vote on this and when we are in the end? Finally, I also wanted to say the amendment and many others, but I have exhausted my time and I will not talk about it. I'll just say something about the Fire Corps. While it has a number of settings and some of them we will vote for...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Comrade, I gave it to you for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u271	I shall conclude, Mr President. There's no provision that's operationally upgraded by the Fire Corps. On the other hand, there is the degradation of the academy, there is a regulation of perforated and customer transfer on many issues, there is a number of provisions concerning promotions where the younger one is being promoted and the oldest one remains, the former one can be in charge, a new state, that is strange and finally the generals are growing and we are reaching almost every thousand executives to have a general. It's a modern, functional structure for both the Fire Corps and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u272	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u273	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. I do not have time to deal with the other things, the very important ones. I think it's not an inspiring and studied proposal. On the contrary, it is a very rough proposal and a bad legacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u274	Mr Ioannis Bougas, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when discussing a draft law on civil protection one must consider cases of natural disasters in order to determine how the system operates. The most recent example of natural disasters at global level is the unprecedented fires that broke out in Australia and have made an ashes of a total area of 100 thousand square kilometres. The victims of these disasters amount to thirty. In our country, the fire that burned Matty Attica destroyed an area of thirteen square kilometres in an area of about four thousand inhabitants with tragic results the loss of a hundred and two fellow people. The difference between the tragic consequences of the two phenomena is absolutely indicative and reveals poverty in the field of organisation. The reality of crisis management in our country has mainly demonstrated a deficit of coordination both horizontally between the co-responsible ministries and vertically, i.e. between the institutions of the decentralised state and the local government, a deficit of coordination, a deficit of responsibility, and above all a deficit of leadership that led to actions without proper organisation and therefore ineffective, has unfortunately led to unspeakable tragedies. I was very pleased, because the previous speaker, Mr Dritsa, said that we wish the draft law to succeed. I think he has the potential to succeed. I will not respond to what has been said about the exercise of an opposition duty by colleagues in the opposition. I want to highlight the positive aspects of the bill and that is too much. The draft law is national because it fundamentally reorganises the country's civil protection, forms the new General Secretariat for Civil Protection as a single, autonomous, powerful national crisis management and risk management mechanism with new structures, with economic, administrative self-sufficiency and the possibility of direct absorption and use of Community funds. A central objective is the timely and correct response to any kind of natural disaster, to any emergency caused by disasters and threats with vertical structure, as detailed in the provisions of the proposed draft law, so as to determine who is responsible in any case, who decides and who is accountable to who. New structures and coordination bodies at both central and regional level with fully clarified responsibilities. If one looks at the draft law, one finds that the criticism, in particular, of the Officerial Responsibility for vague responsibilities among the competent bodies is unfounded. The clarification of competences is both central and, above all, at local and regional level. A central coordinator, thirteen regional coordinators and thirteen regional coordination centres respectively. In this way, a more rapid response is sought, a elimination of bureaucracy and a prevention of the spread of responsibility, because in such cases there must be the person responsible. To be effective in protecting, ladies and gentlemen, we are focused on preventing the proposed draft law. The National Risk and Threats Database is created as the main prerequisite, as well as an element of the National Civil Protection Design. The aim is to contribute to the specificity of the projects concerned according to the degree of risk, so that the guidelines given by the national mechanism to the bodies and operational bodies are as appropriate as possible. Instruments for achieving the objective, exploiting the experience and findings of applied research and information and communication tools, by creating models and mechanisms for informing and warning citizens. I think that everyone in this Chamber agrees that the existing operational weaknesses and structural squeezes of the system, particularly at the level of coordination of stakeholders on a case-by-case basis, confirm that the current legislative framework is ineffective and fails to meet the current requirements. The Chief of Officership as Prime Minister was, if I'm not mistaken, successful in abolishing the same secretariat. However, following the pressure caused by the tragic manipulations in a major disaster, it finally prepared a piece of legislation which, as has been said, could not be passed on to the National Representation. Finally, today the demonic provisions of the legislation are codified in a basic and coherent text. A completely new holistic philosophy is introduced, as the single disaster management from all natural risks is introduced for the first time in Greece. For example, in the United States this was introduced in 1993 and in France in 2004. Prevention, preparedness, response and rehabilitation shall be incorporated into national disaster risk reduction policy. The proposed draft law provides for the establishment of an Integrated Political Protection Facility as an autonomous structure, part of the NSRP's climate change axis, which will facilitate the short and targeted absorption of money intended for these critical actions. In addition, the Centre for Crisis Management Studies, as well as the Operational Risk Prevention and Management Fund will achieve effective use of national and European resources, through direct funding of studies, work or supplies falling within the responsibility of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. The new Directorate-General for Economic Affairs strengthens the financial autonomy of the Secretariat-General and therefore offers flexibility in the management and budget maintenance guarantee. An important innovation is also the introduction of a fast track for the rapid licensing and execution of emergency projects, preventive interventions and/or emergency rehabilitation interventions of any affected persons, which are assessed first by the Risk Assessment Committee to avoid timely bureaucracy and thus to ensure the absorption of funds available. However, the point that is absolutely crucial is the provisions on the intellectual potential of civil protection, for which unfortunately they have been heard in the Chamber. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, has the starting point for volunteers, replacing their non-functional regulatory framework of action with a grid of operational involvement provisions, with emphasis on protection, education and clear categorisation of voluntary organisations. It is also envisaged that voluntary associations can be strengthened by material means so that society can be actively involved in civil protection. The draft law also contains provisions on the chief operational arm of civil protection, the Fire Corps. The Fire Corps is being upgraded. It finally takes the place that is appropriate among the guarantors of the protection of the life and property of the Greeks. To this end, the Central Crisis and Risk Management School, structured in the Fire Academy, the Civil Protection Academy and the Centre for Special Training, is to be set up. The upgrading of the operation of the Fire Corps is classified by a pioneering system of evaluation of the officers, as well as the other personnel of the House through a rated table of enhanced transparency and integrity, abolishing any inequalities based on measurable professional skills. Similarly, it changes the status of promotions and transfers. Special scientists of the Fire Corps are now exploited, executives are trained and introduced through pan-Hellenic examinations. I want to come to another matter now. There has been a lot of talk in the debate on the draft law in the committee responsible, but also before the plenary on sites for supervised use, where local government will now be involved. This is also the innovation of the bill, the involvement of local government in these already existing areas. In this respect, there are spaces from qualified professionals, i.e. healthcare facilities, where substances can be used safely and in particular by clean means. The aim is firstly to protect public health by preventing the transmission of infectious diseases and the health of the active users by preventing, but also in time, intervention to deal with overdose in order to prepare for their inclusion in treatment programmes. The aim is also to eliminate, or even to reduce, the phenomena that cause fear to citizens and unfortunately tarnish the image of cities. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind everyone of the picture that until recently existed in the center of Athens, and I refer specifically to the entrance of the Law School from Marseille Street, where students, tourists, unsuspecting citizens of transit, as well as shop customers, were literally passing by the syringes from users who ratted each other's body. Such scenes we want on the urban web? That's the kind of scene we want in our cities? Do we want users using means, which have been used without any protection and without any supervision? So this is what we are trying to finish, because the legal regime, if I'm not mistaken, goes back to 2013. Interventions have been made by law of SYRIZA, but also ministerial decisions by the Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, because time is running out, I would like to say two more words. Civic Opposition prejudges the bill, which we are called upon to vote, as a malfunctioning and proposed structure of the General Secretariat as a demonic one. This formal reproach - because I have not heard any other arguments against the bill - demonstrates the lack of substantial arguments. The draft law brings a series of substantial changes that will contribute to a functional, coherent and effective civil protection system. This is a great effort by the Government for the radical reform of the issues regulated by the draft law, for which it is worth trying to congratulate the ministers and, in particular, the Minister for Civil Protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Bouga, for the time. Mr Vassilis Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on a bill which really goes ahead. It creates those conditions so that we talk about a modern European country. The title of the draft "National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management, Restructuring of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and Upgrade of the Civil Protection Volunteers System, as well as the reorganisation of the Fire Corps and other provisions" could be replaced by a word, the word "coordination", because it was there and remains the big problem. The problem is in coordination. And if, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the Change Movement and other factions, you condemn this bill and you do not want to vote on it, we are obliged to do this reform. Because, among other things, we have made an election commitment to the Greek people that we will create the conditions for another civil protection, for an upgrade of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, for another Fire Corps and, above all, we will reward, we will strengthen volunteering because it really deserves me to congratulate all those volunteers who have fought and are ready to fight from now on. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from a region which, in the 2000s and earlier years, lived mainly in the 2000s, and lived Kifissos to flood entire blocks and a state to be missing, a national mechanism to look for it! Be careful, today looking for old articles from the newspaper "TA NEWs", dated 4 September 2002, where it states: "Crime again on Kifissos. One hour rain was enough to flood for the third time in two months." I read below: "Nobody showed up until 8:30", said then Mayor Moschatos Taxiarch Papantonis, adding that "on that point no sack had been placed with sand". And we're not talking about the 1950s, we're talking about 2002! This was the national crisis management and risk management mechanism. Can I tell you what the result is? After eighteen years, residents have not been compensated. After eighteen years there is no database to know what risks a region might have. And what does this bill come to do, ladies and gentlemen? He's coming to create a risk log. What's this bill coming to do? To create the conditions for local selfgovernment to have an active role through local civil protection coordination bodies. This bill comes to give local government the role it deserves through the regional centres it creates. It is also coming from this bill to record through the register of voluntary civil protection organisations all that the Greek state needs and to create the conditions for aid and for proper treatment. This bill comes to create a national mechanism in a quadruple direction, first of all, prevention. This bill speaks of prevention, ladies and gentlemen. Don't go over to the finest letters. He's talking about preparedness, he's talking about dealing, talking about rehab. Ladies and gentlemen, one could speak for several hours about the 190 articles in this bill, which have been signed by fifteen ministers. One is the reality that a structure is at last needed for the country, a verticalization of the structure is created and through the thirteen regions. Do not hesitate to strengthen and vote for this bill. Don't think we're going to create conditions for appointments. Let's go create the conditions for dealing with the risks! That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, civil protection has no color, no party. We have seen closely all the events in Matty, which we have experienced and seen mainly communication policy, unfortunately. Now this is where the conditions are being created for the proper treatment of such phenomena. We have seen the events in Mandra, we have seen the events in Hymettos and they really deserve many congratulations to all the voluntary organisations of the Painting, from Vyron, from Argiroupolis, from Glyfada, where we see that they are mainly there for prevention. We see in the summer months in the Hostile all those volunteers giving their best. Are you going to vote against this bill, ladies and gentlemen? I read a previous article entitled "Photos in Hymettos: a sacrificial story of the people of Ilioupoli", which I shall testify for the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen. But not to ignore more than a hundred dead people in Matty, not to ignore the two two dead in fifty two floods in Attica. Details refer to: October 21, 1994, Podonniftis, Kifissos, Glyfada, Nea Ionia, Chalandri, five dead. More recently, 7 November 2002, 23 November 2005. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes, too. Finally, Mr President, I would like to talk about the amendment. This amendment that comes creates those conditions so that there is no duplication of competence between the ministries in dealing with the immigration problem. Monitoring and supervision of non-governmental organisations are finally being established. A register for non-governmental organisations is finally being established. And finally there is a recommendation from the Greek Police to place the pre-regions centers. There is at last a framework which has not existed to date, because we must finally put an end to this sloppyness. It is not a time for experiments, it is a time for solutions, it is a time to make Greece a European country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u278	Thank you to Mr Spankis and to keep time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and five educational attendants from the High School of Lefkopigi Kozanis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms Yota Poulou, Member of SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u279	Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of civil protection is of the utmost national importance but also responsibility. After the accumulated experience of many years, with climate change becoming rapid, there are no failures allowed to create the new legislative framework, which we all agree is necessary. The Government had at its disposal a proposal for a law by the SYRIZA Government, which laid down, in general, a mechanism of civil protection that was modern, comprehensive, effective and in line with the international standards currently in force. This bill had been put in long consultation with all stakeholders, as well as with the scientific community. Sadly, however, instead of relying on it and improving it - all things are better - you have served in a dangerous exercise of amateurism. That, Mr General, was the question I asked you in the Committee on Regional Policy, namely what you are changing from the proposal for a law of the SYRIZA. You replied to me in general that there were no specific responsibilities in the operational mechanism pyramid. In my opinion, here too, you are going to apply the concept of a state with over-concentration of powers and powers. So, let us consider what exactly you are doing because, in the condolence you are presenting to us, you are doing exactly the opposite. Your bill introduces incorrect additions, carries out surgical removals, thus deorganising the crisis and risk management mechanism and the general concern of the involved operators and citizens. But I will concentrate my comments on the role and degraded position of the bill in local government, especially the first degree, on the basis of my experience as Mayor of Livadeon from 2014 to 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree - at least in our speeches - that municipalities are the first obstacle to dealing with emergencies, since they are the first and direct witnesses of all the risks and crises. The experience of disasters so far shows a number of actions that the municipalities were asked to take, and which in many cases exceeded the institutionally defined scope of their activity. Therefore, the absence of the first degree of self-government from the national planning of civil protection, Article 9(4), is very serious omission. Article 23 of the bill describes the role of Municipal Civil Protection Independents. The article is about similar to Article 21 of the SYRIZA's proposal for a law, but with one significant difference. Three series have been removed which negate the competence of paragraph (b), i.e. the municipality's competence to organise and ensure the smooth functioning of the City's Civil Protection Coordination Centre. This competence is accorded to the Regional Civil Protection Coordination Bodies, POPS, and to all phases, from prevention to rehabilitation. This regulation, which provides for the institutions of the regions to develop control and hierarchy relations with the municipalities, is dysfunctional and unconstitutional, rather, ladies and gentlemen, since it violates the autonomy of the local government bodies, which is, of course, pointed out by both the CEDEFOP and the EIC respectively. But let me not make my point anymore. I prefer to focus on the views of the CEDEFOP and the EIA, which are all against you. The CEDEFOP, which finds the draft law daunty and possibly dysfunctional, points out the absolute absence of reference to the role and integration of the authorities of the first degree in the design. It also stresses that special reference should be made to making it clear that measures and actions of a local and/or trans-popular nature are designed and implemented exclusively by primary authorities and calls for the safeguarding of all institutionalised resources, as well as for the conversion of the RBRD into a civil protection system, with more than doubled its resources. It also proposes responsibility for the preventive removal of citizens to have it operationally rather than what is currently in place and reproduced in your bill. Why, does it not make sense not to prosecute local mayors when others have the general command of operational responsibility? Finally, the JRC formulates many specific proposals to address different risks, precisely because municipalities are a key involved institution. Moreover, the Greek Committee of the Regions agrees that the coordination of civil protection at local level should have it by the Departments of Civil Protection. The regulations on OTAs are part of the ambiguities and contradictions of the draft law, in which we can add the increased powers of retired Regional Policy Coordinators, ambiguity with regard to their role and responsibilities in relation to present and service staff, but also the additional cost of remuneration and liability benefits, the introduction of secret confidential funds for direct assignments and much more emphasised by consultation, as well as today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the risks of natural phenomena are in front of us and do not allow amateurism, with stitches and ambiguities, like those of the bill. Former Civil Protection Secretary, Yiannis Tafyllis, a high-level expert, examined the implementation of the mechanism provided for by your bill in the tragic disaster in Matti and proves the complete inability to deal with the disaster. Really, why didn't you attempt your model simulations? All of this is of particular concern to us for the future of emergency needs and crises in our country. It is, however, the government's preoccupation in the laws it legislates and the bankruptcy of the state's staff, and, unfortunately, we predict that you will come back many times in this law with corrective amendments, as they stand. But I don't know if the bill we're discussing is corrected because it's in spirit and planning. In the case of civil protection, ladies and gentlemen, the consequences are not generally related to the deterioration of the social conditions of our lives. They concern the protection of the environment, the protection of the property, the goods of citizens, and the protection of human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, my colleague, for the time. Mr Yiannis Mousalas, Member of the SYRIZA, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is under the shadow of events in Mytilini. Not to Moria. All over Mytilini. This is the time of a proclaimed death. We stressed this on several occasions. We had informed the House that the humanitarian crisis that you, of the New Democracy, created in Mytilini, will lead to such events. We are telling you that we are very afraid that this crisis was not an instant outburst, but that as long as your policy continues, these crises will continue and deepen and will spread elsewhere. At the moment we're talking, at least an hour ago, far-right-handed Mytilians are chasing in the narrows of Mytilini people with different colors, women with handkerchiefs. It's a recent piece of information. The episodes are continuing. They sealed the entrance of the camp, camp, in Moria, forbid refugees and immigrants from entering and coming out. We will not get away easily from what you have created in a particular policy, where he has cultivated racist fears on our people and especially on these islands. It prohibited positive actions such as SYRIZA's proposal to build small pre-regulatory centres and lead to these situations. I must admit Mr. Mitsotakis never spoke racistly. In his final speech he said a brave one that "will come only as long as we want" and such things, but you cannot blame it for racist. On the contrary, however, your MPs, your members, your district chief, your mayors, what are they doing? I've said it before. What bourgeois class is represented in here? How can Mr Ploris say that 'without dead, border guards it is not possible'. How can Mr Georgiadis say that "they must be passed worse than in the war, so that they do not come here". Mr Placiotakis, the Minister for Maritime Affairs, today dared to say - and ran to correct it afterwards - as if it were not apologising why the port of SYRIZA did push back, which I, as Minister of the Government of SYRIZA, for your own governments, refused to do on several occasions in Europe, and I disproved it in this House as well. And your Minister comes out and says that and he tries to fix it then. One would expect, after today's events, a greater modesty, a humility, less ruthlessness on your part. There isn't. You led the immigration - refugee in a humanitarian crisis. You are covered under the increase in flows, which you present as if it were 2015. In the seven months when you were government, if I am not mistaken for about four months, instead of a hundred and eighty with two hundred a day, which came to the years when I was a minister, after we had accepted one and a half million in eight months, they have reached the four hundred. And it's all gone. You cannot manage or want to manage. We'll talk about that later. Mr Metarakis has informed us today that the policy has changed. We can see that politics has changed. Crisis everywhere. Protests everywhere. Protests from refugees and immigrants. Protests from the Greeks. Motorbike fascists entered Moria yesterday and broke two NGO cars. They were ringing the bells, the Morians of Moria gathered, who have suffered too much. I had confessed that, too, and I had taken responsibility when we had five and a half thousand. Today you have twenty thousand. At Samo's eight thousand. What about these combined crises? You've changed politics. Are you happy about that? Did something work? This is the first time seven months after we discuss the announcements. We are not discussing practical measures that you have taken. We discuss the announcements. In other words, 'we will build closed centres of seven thousand'. We denounced it. We said it was barbaric. We said it was ineffective. You didn't make anyone. You didn't space anyone, so we could say "You know, you guys, we were wrong. It's not barbaric. It works.’ We're judging announcements. We're not judging anything else, propaganda and lies. Today you are dating - and you are already writing - and you are proud to be establishing the register of non-governmental organisations. In 2016 on my government, the register of non-governmental organisations was established. You add today the recording of a person’s physical presence. In my view it is too much, but it is certainly not wrong. What's the problem with you and where will you have? We do not have the election mechanism to control this situation and you will not create it from what it looks like. You keep lying and propaganda. You refer to border guarding. Honestly, I can't yell and use heavy talk. It's a shame, guys, that thing. What are the border guards? Don't the generals keep them? The generals don't guard if it's SYRIZA and they guard if it's the New Democracy? You're talking about the National Coordinators. You're loading all the trouble with the Prime Minister, because the National Coordinators are under the Prime Minister. Where is it, guys, the National Coordinator for the minors? What did you do? You didn't do anything. Where is the National Coordinator for Migration and Refugee? He's scissorsing now. About the wires, you shut down a pumping station in Evros, and that's what you did! Flows are growing all the time. I'm going further. You didn't do any intakes for the asylum. You've told us since the bill was passed, but before, you're hiring. You haven't done anything. You have not declared posts for contractors either. You're constantly making changes of organization. You told us that you would add other secondary committees. You didn't add anything. To do this, it takes months. You'd empty the islands. You haven't emptyed anybody. On the contrary, they accumulate. To finish, there are concrete proposals from the SYRIZA side. We've made an appointment with Mr. Metarakis. We want to work helpfully. We will not deny the right of the hard opposition, but our job is also to work helpfully. As far as asylum and secondary matters are concerned, no contractors need to be recruited directly. Now we're out of a memorial. The refugee - immigration - will tyrant us for years and we need to be recruited. There must be education and decongestion in the islands. In Mytilini you have at the moment, based on the information I have - they may be more than four thousand people who are entitled to come back. Bring them tomorrow. You haven't made a single camp! Where are you taking them? You built a camp in Ritchona on the plans - and you did well and it's very good the camp you built in Richonna - but it's loaded! Where are you taking the others? Mr Stefani says that the apartments are a factor attracting refugees - immigrants and that they are one of the best programs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u282	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u283	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to tell you this: we will be very much above you on this matter. It's quite possible we've gone quite soft to this day. That'll change. Is it incompetent? I hope not. I fear, however, that if this situation does not change, it is not mainly incompetent. It's a plan. It's a plan to create social explosions, come social automation and you take over. Mr. Samaras had done it. He had filled the squares, the houses, around the streets, with refugees - immigrants. Then he went out and said, "To recapture the cities" and the Golden Dawn started and broke the snake's egg! That's what you do now. Today's a question. Tomorrow it will be an observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u284	Colleague, we've reached nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u285	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Muzala. Mr Kyranakis has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we have just heard the previous Minister for Migration Policy speaking to us about the position of SYRIZA on the immigration crisis, which we are all experiencing together in this country. I would very much like, Mr Muzala, to visit as an elected member of the National Representation on the island of Lesvos. You told us he was all over Mytilini. You probably meant that the judgment of these days is all over Lesvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u288	I'm a mule. I know the difference between Lesvos and Mytilini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u289	You told us 'No to Moria, all over Mytilini'. You probably got miserable. It's okay, mistakes happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u290	He meant the city.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u291	But they didn't happen in the city of Mytilini, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u292	It happened in the city.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u293	They became outside the city of Mytilini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u295	It's okay. Human is the mistakes. It's human being, as long as we're admitting it, Mr. Musala. I would like you to go to this island, which has been so afflicted by the migratory crisis and to tell the inhabitants: are you in favour, there in SYRIZA, of closed centres, yes or no? Are you in favour of keeping borders, yes or no? Are you in favour of the first barrier, yes or no? Are you in favour of extending the fence to Evros, to Greece's land borders, so that other immigrants don't enter, yes or no? Are you in favour of going faster with expulsion and returns to those who are not entitled to international protection, yes or no? You are constantly criticising, Mr Muzala and all of you at SYRIZA, completely disconnected with what the Greek citizens say in this country, because what SYRIZA says has absolutely nothing to do with reality, nothing to do with the real, honest need for the citizens on the islands of the eastern Aegean and the entire country, nothing to do with what our national duty actually imposes. In fact, since yesterday, all of a sudden, as soon as South Mitarakis, the new Minister for Immigration Policy, tabled this amendment to finally control the NGOs, finally to control the immunity and the business of those who acted with NGOs in this country, taking advantage of the human suffering of immigrants, and suddenly to stimulate migrants in Lesvos, who are organizing, with a banner, in their marches. They even had instructions on how to avoid tear gas and how to deal with suppression by the forces of MATs. This reminds me of something, but in any case it is another debate. It is probably the case that as soon as the government wants to control the scope of the NGOs to operate transparently, so that these voluntary organisations which are doing real humanitarian work and who are really interested - and there are people who are actually in the islands who are interested in human suffering - are better treated and more transparently than fraudsters, you say 'no'! I honestly cannot understand why, on the same day that the government decides to take a dynamic step and give Greek citizens information, information about who they are managing public money, public funds, national and European funds, some respond organisedly. I hope, Mr. Muzala, that you do not imply your concern, sincerely or not...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u296	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u297	...that new crises and new episodes in Lesvos or other islands will be coming in the next period, because if we see that there are so-called NGOs behind the movement of immigrants, we will have bad issues! We're gonna have some bad stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u298	Please, can you explain to me the bad things we're going to have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, I reply to a colleague who has taken the floor just before me. I think that this is perfectly legitimate in an area of freedom of expression, such as the Greek Parliament. I would like to make a proposal - and I close with the issue of immigration - to the Minister and the Minister responsible who tabled the amendment. This new register of Members of the NGO should be fully accessible not only to the authorities, but also to every citizen, since we are talking about public money and be treated in the same way as the "GENERAL" and all the costs that go into this area. I am really moved by Mr Ragosi's sincere interest in the - as he calls it - secret funds. You have told us many times too in our committee, and you said many times in plenary, my dear colleague, Mr Ragosi, about the secret costs. Article 53 of the bill, I'm not sure whether you've read it or not, it's not about hidden expenses, it's about costs that concern secret, secret, rather, needs. I think we all understand the difference between a classified expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u301	Don't you understand, Mr. Janakopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u302	Explain it to us. Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u303	All right, let's explain it. A secret expenditure is an expenditure which is not apparent, that is to say, it would not have had any obligation in that country to account for an expense. We are talking about a classified need here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u304	You read... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u305	So the secret needs referred to in Article 53, Mr Ragosi, and I would like you to tell me honestly whether you agree or not, are to be classified or not, are to be mentioned in 112, which is, in turn, a National Telecommunications Network.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u306	What you're saying is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u307	Do you realize the danger of making a digital attack, such as those we've become accustomed to worldwide on the National Telecommunications Network and having a malicious influence on 112? Do they realize what will happen if, in a crisis, in a natural or other disaster, 112 has been referred to as 'carried' in that language?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u308	No relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u309	Do you understand that or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u310	From the very touch I moved you, you haven't understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u311	So this is called a classified need, as is the national crisis management plans for persons like: the ministers, the former ministers, the Prime Minister, the MPs, such as you, Mr Ragosi and many others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because, there is one condition in public administration and crisis management, and I recently learned it, which is called the 'continuity of government'. Well, when there are such crises, as in other kinds of crises, the state must have drawn up national plans, be prepared to meet these needs, yes, these needs cannot be known to anyone, Mr Ragossi, must be classified.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u312	No, I don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u313	They must be classified for your own protection and many other people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u314	The Scientific Committee of the Parliament says more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u315	So, then, expenditure on these needs obviously, we must, Mr Ragosi, and populism at some point in this country will have to end. For, instead of saying a bravo to Mr. Hardalia, the General Secretary of Civil Protection, who, in the fires of 2019, was not few, was ten thousand six hundred fires in the anti-nuclear period of 2019, just taken over by the Secretary-General of Civil Protection, along with his team, along with the officers of the General Secretariat, was there, not for election in Andros, like others. He was there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u316	Colleague, we're in eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u317	I shall conclude, Mr President. I just need a minute. He was there. And even though the fires were much more than they didn't have a dead man. So I'd expect the Opposition to hear a good one. As we heard of a good for both Mr. Chardalia and his team, because although the fires were twice as high as last year, the extent to which it was burned was 2/3 below the average over the last decade. That's the truth. You may be tearing your head down now not wanting to admit it, but a bravo deserves a man, who tries and thanks to the coordinated efforts of the General Secretariat and the Firefighting Department we managed to avoid the worst.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u318	It was already... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u319	So it must be a state prepared, organised and not humiliated, as you want to do right now. I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u320	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u321	I put one question in the Minutes from the past when Mr Raguss was a minister in another party. I put a question to Mrs Vozenberg, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u322	Do you know who he was then, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u323	Finish, Mr. Colleague, we've reached nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u324	I'll submit it to the Minutes. I'm done. It is worth it, Mr President. Minister for Foreign Affairs at the time, Stavros Lambrinides, who reports on the confidential expenses. Well, the increase in classified expenses, dear, Mr Ragosi, former PASOK Minister, went up by 270%. I'll testify for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Kyanaakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you have the courage now to come here and criticize us for classified expenses, without even knowing what you're talking about. Good luck. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u325	SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Janakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Giannis Mouszalas said earlier, today's meeting is taking place in the shadow of events in Moria, but also in Mytilini and in the wider region of Lesvos. And because there seem to be many Members of the New Democracy and many who find it difficult to understand the reasons why the refugee policy of the government is considered to be a failure, I will be allowed a small introduction that is not in the bill. What is the central point, which the New Democracy and its Government have started implementing, since the country's governance took place? The biopolitical logic of prevention. I mean, impoverish them so they don't come. This policy is not just contrary to the country's international commitments, to the fundamental human rights, as provided for by international conventions and especially the law of refugee protection, it has proved to be completely ineffective and ineffective to tackle a top issue, because what you have done to impoverish these people was to cut off the islands and stop the transport of refugees to the inland. Today, Mr Metarakis, once again, defended this policy by saying that inland transport is damaging the population. That implied in his position. And they are really, sad that a man, who should belong to the liberal space, has ideas of positions and political logic that suit the extreme right wing of the New Democracy. Change in the population of the country. As if there is a project to alter the country's population, so you stopped inland transport. What was the result? Do you know what the result was? The unbelievable situation, the tragic situation, the destabilizing situation that has arisen in the islands. That's why you took Moria five thousand seven hundred and sixty-eight people, and today is over twenty thousand. And this results that are not only related to refugees and their living and respect for their rights, which is an extremely crucial issue, but creates conditions of tension and conflict and also with the local population. In other words, your extreme right -wing obsessions actually worked as self - surprise prophecies. And this is your top failure in immigration - refugee. Once again it turns out that your right wings, your deeply conservative perceptions have extremely negative results for the society itself, whose name you confess. I now come to the agenda, but with a preliminary comment. Minister, given that you have chosen to play the role of the political and ideological fetus of the hardest version, the right-wing version of the Mitsotakis governance, along with Mr Georgiadis and Mr Vorides, given that you have now been registered in modern political history in seven months as the minister of the doctrine of law and order, authoritarianism, the violation of basic human rights and the tolerance of this violation, it is no accident that complaints of torture, extreme violence, even for violations of domestic asylum, give and take. It's a daily theme in news reports, in the media, in the news. All of this is happening for your own ministerial service, given that you have already been considered inadequate by Mr Mitsotakis in the management of the refugee crisis, for which the reason earlier, despite the fact that you accepted from the very beginning and without second thought the extreme right choice of the deterrence policy: Depress them so that they do not come and yet, despite the fact that you accepted it from the beginning to the end. At first Mr. Mitsotakis appointed you as Mr. Stefani, and then he removed your authority. Given that it has failed in your great bet, the staff, to guarantee security, after you have confused police policing with the police and police state, and that is now also recorded in the public's measurements on which I imagine you are constantly going, where we see that the majority of society now - because communication is not enough - is not enough, it also needs works - it is not satisfied with the sense of security, because other things police corruption and the fight against organised crime. Another thing is the police's ability to create security, security and the fight against crime. With all this, then, one would expect you to take advantage of the same attitude of all of us here, that there is indeed a need to modernise the institutional framework for civil protection, the background and the recent and the less recent tragedies that have emerged years, the great deficits of the Greek administrative mechanism, great pathogens, things that are inherited from the past of the old political system of power, great deficits in the procedures of civil protection and to exploit the common admission - again all of us here - that climate change poses challenges that are unprecedented in this area of administration and protection. So do this in terms of consensus, consensus and co-formulation, given that, once again, we all agree that there is a need to modernise the framework. You chose to do yours again. And what's yours? You brought us a bill of inspiration here, no beginning, no middle, no end. You create bodies, responsibilities, increase and expand the existing bureaucracy that is one of the great pathogens of the Greek administrative system. You give bodies and responsibilities, but in most cases you do not explain in the very text of the law how these bodies operate, while sometimes it remains undetermined and is referred to in the future how these bodies operate. So, understanding the structure becomes impossible and if we are unable to understand it here, imagine what will happen with the officials who will have to implement it and participate in this structure, and there are now constitutional issues that the Scientific Committee of Parliament points out to you, such as the fact that the self-sufficiency of local authorities is being destroyed and that you have your post-call friends to make decisions, which are constitutionally regulated by the First or Second level of self-government. And be careful, you'll find it in front of you. This law has no hope of surviving the torment of the judgment of the Courts of Cassation. You will find it in front of you and you will come here with your dear practice to legislate again in the same way that you have done thirty times for the perfect state. We have pointed it out to you. We are trying to be constructive in our criticism, as far as possible with this government. I have heard many colleagues from the New Democracy say that there are no overlaps, there are no responsibilities involved between them and that the bill is very good. I want to ask some questions. Who has the power to coordinate natural disaster response actions, the Regional Civil Protection Centre or the Region's Civil Protection Autonomous Directorate for the Region? Who is responsible for coordinating stakeholders at all stages of the disaster and threat cycle, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection or the National Coordinating Centre for Operations and Crisis Management? If you take the law, the answer is "both". Get out of the way! I could multiply the questions, but I would like to close with an issue that also came to the surface during the debate and concerns the confidential funds for which we have also received extremely deep criticism, which causes us a concern, but in any case, I would like to say this: If colleagues and colleagues of the New Democracy read the text of the law, you will see that in relation to the confidential funds you leave a huge scope of discretion for defining the confidential needs. Because - you know - the legal way of thinking is precisely this: 'I leave a wide range of discretion and interpretations to achieve something else'. What's the other one? It is obvious that at the back of your mind is the settlement of special interests. I dare say - who would expect this, after all - that the aim of this article is to violate the European rules on public procurement. Here we are, we'll see. It is a pleasant tactic to find an exception to the exceptions. The national public procurement authority has already pointed this out to you, and there are those rules which allow exceptions in case of force majeure or emergency. What do you want with the new exceptions in your law? We are all very concerned about this. These are questions to which you will be invited - you do not want - sometime to answer, because we are here and we are watching you very closely, Minister, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. The Minister has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u328	I have heard the latest speeches by SYRIZA, by Mr Muzala and Mr Janakopoulos, a obsession with the Government that it has sought to prevent, deforming the government's policy. Mr. Janakopoulos, do you have a statement that the government is seeking to prevent impoverishment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u329	Listen to Mr. Metarakis' speech today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u330	Don't interrupt me. I didn't interrupt you. I want a statement from any member of the government who said that we are seeking to prevent new flows by adopting and investing in an inhuman situation of impoverishment of immigrants and asylum seekers. A statement! If you don't bring it to me, it's conscious distortion and falsification of the reality you're conscious of for propaganda and cheap impression. I want a statement saying we want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u331	The squirrel!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u332	Mr Polakis, the distinction of powers and roles you know about it? I say the government!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u333	Minister, don't answer. Mr. Polakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u334	I want a statement!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u335	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u336	I'm sorry, Minister. Mr. Polakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u337	It's causing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u338	Bring us a statement that says the government wants to lead structures to inhumane situations as a means of deterrence. But you have an obsession with the deterrence. Because your policy has been a political stimulus for five years. You do not like deterrence because you have based your policy on exhortation. 'Come on.' When we took over power, we were in a state of shape. What was the shaped situation? Seventy-five thousand applications for asylum first and second degrees. Overcrowding in the Cyts, don't come back. The whole system was built, the law was made, so no returns would be made. Mostly, a circuit, a network of specific interests, a wide network of interests that stirred up and exploited people's suffering. Smugglers, dark non-governmental organisations that have never been controlled. I'm not saying all of them, but they were. And various solidarity professionals who lived richly depriving themselves of the misery of the people who came to the country. This network, this black and dark circle of interests, cannot be broken by any government in a few months. This was diffuse at many levels and in many forms. It is sufficient to think that around 80% of asylum seekers were designated as vulnerable, to relaunch the process of resuming money, reappearing various lawyers and doctors. Basically, with your policy, you created this deep circuit with roots everywhere. We couldn't break that in six months. And it doesn't break yet because it's deep and dark. But there's one more thing. What about your asylum law? It was a law of production that was delaying, deliberate, conscious that was feeding the circuit I'm talking about. Within three months we changed the law to make it all faster. The law is implemented from 1-1-2020 and will be effective. It's hard. Nothing's easy on this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u339	Seven refunds you've made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u341	It's not seven are four return business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u342	Seven returns of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u343	The potential is therefore strengthened. We have reached an agreement with the NSAO which is incomprehensible because you have not made it five years. To have a legal personality. We have just signed this five hundred, with whom the EASO, the European Asylum Support Agency, contributed a thousand to helping this titanic effort on the islands. Finally, you insisted - I don't know where you found this - that no attempt was made to dismantle the islands. Mr. Chrysochoidis is next door. We talked about it. Confirm - and I think if you look at the facts, you will find them - that more than ten thousand transfers have been made. Is that a lack of political decongestion? Apparently not. In addition, we have a difficult situation with Turkey that has been fully integrated into its geopolitics of immigration - refugee. They do not hide it when they say every three days that "we will open the gates". This repetition of these statements is a green card. An open call for people to move west, i.e. at the doors that will once be opened. They confirm with these repeated statements that they control the flow. So we have received this lousy circle of interests. At the same time, a few days later, Turkey's policy began to use as a tool for influence and pressure, migration, not only to Greece, toward all of Europe. This difficult situation, gentlemen, is being handled through difficulties, sometimes with errors, but also with road corrections. However, the circuits will be broken, the flows will be controlled and human rights respected, because that is the bet of a democratic government. And human rights and the rule of law and a sense of security for citizens and the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u344	Mr. Ioannis Economou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. I will talk about the issue of civil protection. I'm starting with a personal observation. I think that with very recent tragedies which have led to the loss of tens of our fellow people, this obliges us when we discuss issues of change, modernisation, improvement of the civil protection system to do so in a measure, with a responsibility and, above all, with a sincere commitment to assist in a better result for a better situation, regardless of whether at the end of the day reasons which often have nothing to do with the substance of the bill, force parties or parties to behave differently and to vote otherwise. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because the tragic events that we have experienced both in the eye and in Mandra and other years in Attica and elsewhere, beyond the heavy political and service responsibilities in my view, are a mark, in my view, in the functioning of the state and the Greek state. That's where he comes in to answer the bill. To deal with a series of arrhythmias and pathogens that made the state mechanism ineffective, harmless, weak and in many cases under the circumstances in order to be able to do the self-evident. To be able to preserve the natural environment, to be able to protect the property of the people and, above all, to protect human lives, and in the last tragedy, just a few kilometres from the administrative center of all the mechanisms of the Greek state. So how are we trying not to repeat what our rapporteur and colleagues and committees have presented and analysed today? How are we trying to create a more advanced, more modernised, more effective mechanism in civil protection? Putting two basic preconditions on it. First of all, in answer to the question of who is doing what, who is running, who is responsible, who is coordinating. Secondly, by taking provisions for prevention systems, for prevention policies that will shield the country against the natural disasters that are more pronounced, more aggressive, due to extreme weather and climate change have been seen more and more recently. We are therefore creating in the first section a vertically integrated system with a national coordinator and thirteen regional coordinators responsible for the whole situation, from identifying the evaluation of the initiatives to be taken, from the mobilisation of the mechanisms, from management and implementation of a strategy in the field to the evaluation of the results. Secondly, I would like to stress that we are giving fast track procedures within ninety days to take decisions and implement initiatives for useful projects, which are essentially projects to prevent, prepare and shield the regions from natural disasters and phenomena. Away from mutual responsibility and bureaucratic procedures. And these, if we want to be honest and out of hypocrisy, are things that need to be done. These are the ones that govern the logic of the bill and which come to be completed. They are also served by a number of other articles. I would like to end, Mr Minister, and Mr President-in-Office, with a proposal, an observation concerning Football and, above all, Lokida. It's an area that, Mr. General, you know it well. The municipality of Locres operates a fire step. It is one of the largest municipalities in the Prefecture of Fthiotidos. There, therefore, this fire step is responsible for a vast area consisting of twenty - one thousand people according to the 2011 census that more than doubles in the summer months. It must attempt in areas of about seven hundred and ten thousand acres characterised by forest service as a alpha risk for forest fires. At the same time, he must monitor the national road. At the same time, it must receive provision for large industries in the region. It is a constant request for the residents of the region to upgrade this step to a fire department. I think it is an absolutely justified request, based on the extent of the services that people are required to carry out, based on the size and the city's size and population distribution, both in the city of Atalant and in the surrounding areas. I would say that contrary to what was previously planned, on the basis of the new design, on the basis of the reason why we are voting today on civil protection, our Government must see it very warmly and very positively, so that the fire step in Atalante is upgraded to a fire service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr. Economou, and for the time economy. Mr George Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u347	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, given the large volume of the draft law, I will be content with a qualitative assessment and focus on two, three points. First of all, let me say that this draft law is a holistic approach to the relevant issues, giving them the value they have. We have seen this before the presentations. It was something that it was necessary, that is, a system which had been invalidated or wronged by executives, but also by citizens, volunteers, since many times the result was disproportionately small, with regard to the efforts and forces that were invested. This whole crisis management mechanism is becoming more attractive to society, at the same time acceptable to other citizens in a joint effort to tackle the difficulties that exist every time. The upgrading of the system of volunteering provided is an educational process, since we want examples that show the way and act as multipliers for the Greek society that seeks standards and we must offer them. I am convinced that the value of instruments and systems to deal with risks is significantly affected by their organisation, which is reflected in this draft law for those who have read it thoroughly. Central coordination, renovation, mobilisation, use of modern technology and risk management instruments are provided in a coherent way which focuses on the result, which will, moreover, determine the effectiveness of the legislation. So you will allow me to refer to some of his forecasts. The policy of reducing the risks of disasters is based on national action and that is why it is reflected in the provision of national planning, appropriately structured and targeted to the result. At the same time, decentralised planning and action is envisaged. It shall then apply appropriate regional planning and structure that goes down to the municipality level in the form of local civil protection operational coordination bodies. At each level of administration, the corresponding structure, which serves the objective and organisation, is also provided for, of course, according to territorial competence. I mean, I'd say, quality circles. New management and control systems are introduced that can be monitored, evaluated and improved, which is the issue both in terms of their functioning and effectiveness, but also in terms of the need for possible redefinition. The adoption and organisation of the ultimate structure of the NRP of civil protection and the ability to operate either as an intermediate management body or as a final beneficiary is an intervention that will enable the service itself to design, plan and implement the development projects. The establishment and organisation of the Operational Risk Prevention and Management Fund will, of course, contribute to a more autonomous action in crisis management. The establishment of the National Crisis Management and Risk Management School as a legal person governed by public law will contribute to the objective of holistic intervention in related matters. With regard in particular to the provisions of Article 39 for the Firefighting School, let me also thank you, and this is sincere, both the Minister and the Secretary-General of the Ministry for the productive cooperation we have had, which has essentially given value to the term and concept of consultation. I am referring in particular to paragraph 13, first of all: "For the first time, Ptolemais is defined as the seat of the School of Firefighting, while so far it has been an annex of the Athens-based Firefighting Academy". Secondly, "the semesters of the school are increased and from four to five in Ptolemais, and three are added to Attica. It is stated that those coming out of the Firefighting School graduated from their school in Ptolemais". They will simply do the education of the three months in Athens and go back to Ptolemais to get their degrees. Fourthly, "provisions..." and this is very important for the sake of flexibility, not only for the issue of the Firefighting School, but also for the other relevant issues, "... the regulation of all operating procedures, with the signature of a Presidential Decree". With a view to liberating dynamics and responding quickly to any need and problems, certain procedures are simplified, focusing on the result for which, in principle, is judged, will then be judged on design and implementation, but also on the result of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. In closing, Minister, Mr Secretary-General, this draft law, while dealing with such a complex and at the same time important issue, has the structure, it has the procedures and instruments that guarantee the successful implementation of its provisions, and that is why I am voting in favour of it. I suggest to those who believe it to intensify our actions and those who do not believe it to be deeply involved in its predictions and to try even more than those who believe it, because it is a one-way project, this draft law to succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u348	We thank my colleague for his time-sharing. Mrs Dionysia has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very moved today to refer to the resolution of this bill, to the more effective organisation of civil protection in cases of natural and man-made disasters, as I represent a prefecture, which suffered years ago one of the most serious disasters of forest fires. The memory of the people who were lost then, I feel every time the need to honor. The early and effective prevention and treatment of natural and man-made disasters is not only about Elias Law in the past, but also about its future. Our prefecture lies in an earthquake area and, in addition, is shaken by extreme weather phenomena, the frequency of which is increasing, due to climate change. Natural disasters undermine our agricultural production, jeopardise the physical integrity of our fellow citizens, destroy their assets and, above all, put the resilience of our ecosystems at risk. That is why the direct vote of the bill is crucial for our country. The changes brought about by the bill are necessary for the effective functioning of the National Risk Management and Management Mechanism, as well as for the restructuring of the General Civil Protection Secretariat. The bill comes to shield our country and minimise the unfavourable effects, which a less well-organised mechanism had previously allowed it to happen. We also remind ourselves of the loss of human lives in Matti and Mandra because of human error. The best and early coordination and the assumption of responsible leadership at the critical moment are vital to the rescue of people and nature and is the part of the puzzle that has been missing from our organization for so many years. The bill still introduces necessary areas, for example in local government, the role of which is equally critical, since local government is that part of the state mechanism, which is closest to the situation in time. The role of local government is also crucial in preparation and prevention. This draft law actually regulates more effectively the activation of the Civil Protection Mechanism than the prevention stage. I stress this, as in terms of prevention, our country was getting a very low degree among the other states of the European Union. Without sufficient prevention, as long as an organised civil protection system is in place and we will continue to account for losses. It would also be advisable to operate an independent prevention and treatment unit for natural and man-made disasters within the Ministry of the Environment, too. The restructuring of the system of governance of the treatment of natural and man-made disasters in our country, which began with this draft law, must continue and be complemented by a next two-tier bill of the Ministry of the Environment which will respond more fully to the levels of both prevention and the medium-term recovery of affected ecosystems. Short restoration alone is not enough to close the wounds of nature and to prevent the prosperous vulnerability of our ecosystems. It is necessary to fully restore them. A series of other more detailed cooperation issues, such as the better cooperation between the Firehouse and the Forest Services, still need to be better regulated. Cooperation must be strengthened even closer with the Ministry of Infrastructure, because what is the usefulness of the Encela Plan, which the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Civil Protection is drawing up to address earthquakes, if the Ministry of Infrastructure and the municipalities have not inspected our schools in good time for their earthquakes, for example, in order to protect our children from earthquakes in school space? I am appalled by the danger of a step in the House, because in too many school buildings there have been no checks on earthquakes in recent years. Finally, I would like to make particular reference to the executive structure of the ESDP and the Operational Fund for Risk Prevention and Management which will finally provide the financial opportunity to the Firehouse, throughout the mechanism, even to volunteers, so that they have adequate equipment and the use of new technologies, so that they can safely deal with any risk and incident in the future. In conclusion, I consider it particularly important to establish the National Crisis and Risk Management School, as well as to upgrade the Fire Academy. The National School would be good to work with similar institutions abroad for exchanging know-how, and should work directly not only with the European Commission and the other Member States of the European Union, but also with the United Nations Agency, in particular the specialised research centres established by the UN, such as the Environmental Crisis Centre in Geneva. I wish for good success in Civil Protection and we have, in 2020, as few and minor incidents as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mrs Agrinopoulos, for keeping time. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor now from SYRIZA. Mr Manolakos will be followed by the New Democracy and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed come prepared to contribute to the experiences we have had in previous years and to our constructive thoughts in the draft law. But even if anyone wants to sanctify, you won't let him. So I have three points to make. The first is to Mr Kumucako. Seven refunds were made in January. Seventy-seven refunds have been made since July, of which thirty-two were not considered for asylum, because we had a lack of interpreters. One wonders how he will be able to make ten thousand returns. It's not coming out. Mathematically, it doesn't come out for sure, but I imagine the government has an amazing and magical way to catch up with it. The other two introductory issues are an appeal or encouragement to the Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis. The first is this. I would ask some Members of the New Democracy, as I heard a young fellow Member before, not to continue to abdicate Mr Ragosi because he was PASOK Minister or others of us who were PASOK members, especially when Michael Chrysochoidis or the remaining 40% of the PASOK government is sitting in the headquarters. This shows how big the political differences within PASOK were that some of us were on the left and others were on the right. Let the New Democracy notice it, too, because the differences it contains do not find a proper course. And secondly - again to Mr Chrysochoidis - I hope that the police will show sincere zeal in relation to the activities of the far right-wing refugees in the city of Mytilini and the Aegean islands because for some of us our grandparents and grandparents went to these islands and to these cities when they left in 1922. Let's go to today's draft law. On the occasion of today's debate on the National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management, it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's confession that the state has failed. I will not go into the general points that have been made by both our rapporteurs and colleagues of all parties in the opposition. In our view, it is a dautic and dysfunctional institutional framework that we have today to vote on. I will not say about the district managers or the mayors whose instruments have been placed negatively and do not belong to our area. I will say, however, that you are creating in the Secretariat-General two Directorates-General, nine Directorates-General, thirty-three departments, thirteen offices, a central coordination body, thirteen regional coordination centres, thirteen regional operational centres, thirteen regional directorates, over a thousand local operational coordination bodies at municipal level and other such civil protection departments, three legal persons with sectors, addresses, an unknown number of departments, a final NSRP structure, committees, councils, partners and post-calls. I'm dizzy. I don't know if anyone can have in mind how this whole structure works. And I really would like you to ask yourself. Don't you remember what you said in the same room a few months ago about the ultimate state? Why did you become this great superstructure with hundreds of partners and posters when you told us here that this was all about better coordination of services, planning, dealing with bureaucracy, the coordinated functioning of the agencies? We ask you: If the state finally succeeded, if it works in the direction you were talking about, why are you today presenting a draft law which has a general secretariat which is'mini government' with its subtle responsibilities and so on and without any responsibility? All this structure I described before taking no responsibility. Responsibilities are left to the elected local government. So it would be reasonable today to discuss a draft law that would take into account the experiences of previous years, to discuss the three phases that we need to have on natural disasters, emergency crises, to discuss the prevention and hence the planning and hierarchy of the infrastructures that we need to have as a country, the response to the crisis and the rehabilitation. I would therefore expect the government to have recorded shortcomings in structures, coordination procedures, clear responsibilities. You should have seen what worked well in previous years and what did not. I cannot really mention some examples. With regard to the prevention of both the fire of Elijah and the Eye and elsewhere there were major deficiencies in the escape routes. Settlements that did not have safe road connections, which had spatial and urban chaos, without marking, without access to the beaches. If these were there, we wouldn't be mourning so many of our fellow citizens. There should be no provision in the draft law to record all these things, their hierarchy, how they will be codified, what will be prioritised? Is it not a joint finding that closed currents, their non-demarcation to flooding projects are pathogens of years that were at the 1st degree of local government, and has not been what should have been done all these years? Who are these bodies? You're not describing. Who will have this responsibility? Who will assess the risk to have a serious hierarchy? And all ministries, municipalities and regions are involved. Well, instead of reading in the draft law another exception to the Public Procurement Act, which does not concern a change of law, is an exceptional provision only for the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. And I wonder in what rational way this exceptional provision is being introduced? So, if the General Secretariat for Civil Protection wants to face a flooding task, will it go with this provision - if we consider it right - and the Ministry of Infrastructure or the region or the municipality will go with another? Can this exceptional provision for the General Secretariat for Civil Protection be allowed in common? If, therefore, you consider it right, it must have been a general provision, a general change in public procurement law. Why do you put that on? Because you know that within the law there are changes to such situations, there are predictions. That is why the EDPS does not give its opinion, because you know that all this exceptional provision is outside Community and European legislation and we will pay for that. Wait, because this is the most recent time that you change the law on public procurement outside the Community directive and without any opinion from the EDPS. And I wonder: Urban planning, spatial planning, all of these flooding projects, networks, will the General Secretariat for Civil Protection do so? Are the other ministries abolished? I wonder.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u352	Colleague, I gave you the two minutes you asked for me, but we've exceeded time and we've reached two and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u353	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're right, but I think what I'm going to say will help the Minister then. I'm the last speaker. Show some tolerance. Well, we're moving on to the process of dealing with a natural disaster. It is a common place that the institutional framework we have today with responsibilities to the elected representatives without any minimum rules on what should be in the municipalities and regions is not working. Let's go to rehab. In the early days of Mitsotakis government, we experienced a communal storm for Matti. I would therefore like to see for so many months later what happened, because you have enacted for rehabilitation at that time. Do you remember the plot? So the plot was cleaned up, it was the fourth time, this time with channels. It was good that he was cleaned up. Today, Minister, there is another plot - I have brought you photos before the celebrations - which are within the urban fabric, not on the Marathon Avenue, it's by the houses, it's illegal, it's the House of the Navy. The municipality throws them at the Ministry, the Ministry at the company "MYXAN" that we had introduced, a mess. Let's go to "MY DAY": Report zero, really zero.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Comrade, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u355	I'm done. Integrated competitions for asbestos and demolitions zero. Rehabilitation permits zero. The first thing it takes to make a recovery is to make this joint ministerial decision. That's what we had achieved and had been thrown at the five days in Matty, the seven days in Mandra. I'll tell you what's going on today. On July 11, 2019, we had seven dead in Halkidiki, it took seven months to get out. The rest of the ten natural disasters in the earthquake of Athens, Volos, Kefalonia, western Greece, Mesolonghi, Corfu, again in Kineta, Thassos, have not yet been adopted by the joint ministerial decision. I had more to tell you, Minister. Unfortunately, we do not have the luxury of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u356	You had the luxury of time, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u357	The fact that you are setting up the Natural Disaster Directorate and the General Secretariat of Civil Protection with no staff, no specification will probably be carried from the Ministry of Infrastructure, I imagine, or I don't know what you have in the design of the state of service. What we are saying is that, unfortunately, you have reinstated and returned to the normality of the party's state of staff yesterday, the insecurity of the citizen and the doctrine for the citizen, God, put his hand on it. It only took seven months for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u358	The last speaker, Mr Manolakos, has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. I'm the last one, and I'll be brief. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill that comes to be adopted today sets the framework for global reform of the operational crisis management plan due to exceptional and unforeseen circumstances in the hope that we will never again witness tragedies like Eye and Mandra, where more than a hundred twenty people have been lost in these two disasters that shocked us and highlighted the inherent weaknesses of our country's civil protection system, teaching us in the most cruel way that there is no room for oligopoly, mistakes and omissions. Both the fire in Matti and the floods in Mandra, but the oil spill in Saronics seems to have been dealt with only by the honor of the lost daily heroes who have against the lack of media and operational readiness they have given all of it to deal with these events. I am of course referring to firefighters and ordinary citizens who, at the risk of their lives, put them with the mania of nature where the state showed serious insufficiency. With this new bill local regions and municipalities undertake to draw up plans including the recording and availability of intervention forces and the particular features of the residential and natural environment concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, the Fire Corps is being upgraded as a whole. The time has increased for students to study at the Fire Academy from two and a half years to four years and the knowledge and training of managers who take the lead in the theatre, while provision is made for retraining either inside or abroad at public expense. The lifelong training of fire officers is being established, a rating for low-level staff with the possibility of wage developments, and for the first time firefighters of five years are being introduced into the scope of the transfer regulation. The General Secretariat for Civil Protection shall be responsible for the training of volunteers, local government officials and public administration officials in a framework of the operation of the Academy of Civil Protection. Now on the creation of supervised areas for the use of drugs, I naturally understand that it is not a provision for the immediate treatment of the phenomenon of drugs. I would, however, like to believe that the state in these areas will not simply supervise a decent use of dependent people, but, knowing users, it will gradually contribute to their preparation for inclusion in treatment programmes. I will make a comment on the NGOs and the amendment. The register is the first right step in controlling their activities and this is very important. In conclusion, I call on all of you to vote in favour of the new bill before us, not because it has no imperfections, it is certainly possible to improve, but it is a good first principle at least legislative in order to increase the effectiveness of civil protection. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The new law may not solve, Minister, the issue of limiting the number of aircraft which can be thrown into the fires nor will it immediately make hydrographies available for the floods or risk maps, but describes the structures that are necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot accept that we will not do anything to prevent any of our fellow citizens from reliving such situations as tragedy in Matty and Mandra. Let us not mourn other victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u360	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you and everyone for their 12-hour placements. I think it was an exhausting debate on the issues that concern and negotiate this bill and it was a good opportunity to highlight the conflicts and differences. At the same time, what I have seen is that there is a very easy wording of opinions on technical issues, which are operational issues. I have seen here that opinions have been expressed with great ease, which have nothing to do with reality. But that is the concept of democracy and we must therefore record every view and evaluate it with a view to finally reaching the right result. Here we are negotiating an issue that is in the hard core of the state. If there is an issue that falls within the competence and responsibility of the hard core of the public sphere, public power is security in the broad sense and the issue of civil protection is security. It is the security of the citizen, of society, of the country, of the country's infrastructure, of private property from natural disasters, of the crises that are erupting, which are becoming more and more dangerous, because it changes the climate of the planet. The Australian case is not a short-term case, a summer in Australia where we have major fires. It is precisely the outbreak of climate change, which takes the dimensions of a storm and which destroyed a large part of Australia's forest vegetation, took human lives, destroyed property and significantly affected the GDP of a very large and rich country, such as Australia. The same is true of a series of crises and disasters taking place in the United States, in Europe with floods and so on. Here, therefore, is a task of policy to formulate, organise policies for civil protection, crisis management and disaster response. That is the aim of our conversation today. What's the problem so far? How do I understand the problem so far? What's the matter? Why are we coming today to legislate? The problem is that unfortunately there are disguised responsibilities. There are difficulties in reaching agreement across the horizontal and vertical borders. There are horizontal and vertical difficulties in being able to cooperate, so that all too often results in a lack of efficiency. I think I've said it before that Matty was such a consequence, a culprit. I am not going to look at the Eye right now, just to mention it as a symptom, because there are many things in crisis management and disaster response. The Eye, then, was the symptom of the dissolution of public administration. I remind you that in the end no one managed the crisis, no one. No one ordered evacuation. No one ordered airplanes, no one ordered any way out. Nobody. All the mechanism has been delivered. So there was no leadership. This is a symptom of a paralysis that shows we have a problem. I also remember the issue of Mandra. There have been exactly the same problems, that is, there has been no one who moves too quickly, too early, since dawn to run to deal with a matter. And who was that? Who would, for example, give an order to close the old Eleus - Thebes National Road? If an officer were to close the Elefsina - Thebes National Road then, there could have been more than fifteen people saved. So that is the deficit, so what should we do? We need to build a mechanism that is too tight and has the following characteristics. Firstly, it will be able to distribute responsibility and coordinate horizontally, that is, ministries, institutions, agencies, institutes, etc. Let me just say it, we're going to build an operational centre in which all the co-presidents are involved. On the other hand, at vertical level, it should occupy the central state, region and government so that everyone can participate in a mechanism under the umbrella of the Central National Disaster Management and Crisis Management Mechanism. That's the point. That's what this whole debate is about. I, too, claim that this project is very difficult. And it is difficult because we are a country that is difficult to implement institutions, we are difficult to have respect and consistency in the application of institutions over time, but at the same time experience has shown that, when we want, we can really do very important things. So this draft law is ambitious, this mechanism is ambitious. Of course, it has weaknesses, but these weaknesses will gradually become an attempt to overcome, improve the problems, and at the end there will be a mechanism adapted to the country's measures. I wanted to do this as a description of what we are trying to do today in our country in relation to civil protection. I will try to respond very quickly to some questions that have been raised. The consultation has indeed been made rich, ten days and two thousand comments. I would like to say that there was a strong debate on the bill and that was how it should be done. The second issue raised is the question of structures and, more generally, the'superiorities' of the national mechanism and thus the servant of this national mechanism, which is the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. Because the national mechanism is a structure, but it is actually supported and served by the General Secretariat. Since the mechanism is so strong, so strong, and so heavy, it obviously requires a heavi institution to serve it. And so it becomes heavier, more importantly the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. As far as the Fire Corps and the legitimate concerns are concerned, I would like to say that the Fire Corps is expressly referred to in the relevant article as being a structured security body. He has Chief of Head of Head of Headquarters, heading the hierarchy, leading the entire range. I want to tell you with great faith in my words, because I heard a few cases, some allegations of politicisation and discharge of the Fire Corps from the uniform, that this is a disaster. It is of great value, the country's great dowry, that we have this Fire Corps today, I mean by this structure as a Security Body. It is hard to find a European structure of this kind in a country which we must protect. And operationally, not administratively, the Fire Corps has been subject to Civil Protection since 2012. It's nothing new that's happening now. And that the commanders, the Maj-Gens, etc. are growing. It has thirteen regions, it has two - three important institutions that need to be served in the headquarters, and so there is that figure right. I come to the issue of the region. The regional coordinator is proposed and selected by the regional director. He's a person and at the same time an institution that's not alone. It is not a person who is there and represents the regional coordinator. The regional coordinator has a huge structure: the regional operational centre, through his means, his people and everything else he needs, and so he does his job. The district manager is obliged to organise the structures, infrastructures in his area, to take precautions, prevention, to make the infrastructures to protect the property of people, of his fellow citizens and at the same time public property. I mean, the district manager has a lot of work to do. He doesn't substitute anyone. The Regional Coordinator is managing the crises. Also, as far as the Fire Corps is concerned - and it is worth saying this because I personally have a route to the Ministry - from the current Ministry of Civil Protection to say that today a legislative proposal is coming which gives the possibility of promoting and developing low-grade fire extinguishers to four degrees, this is very important. It's an incentive, it's an opportunity to exploit each other's skills. So this is a very positive development of the new law. As far as the issue of prisons is concerned, let's make it clear. Look - because I have heard from some speakers that prisons are being privatised - I want to tell you that in the previous years and in the years of New Democracy 2004-2009 and in the years of PASOK and then in the government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos and in the years of governance SYRIZA too many PPPs have become public-private partnerships. So, because there is not much money in the EDP or the European funds are enough, there are public-private partnerships and with these contracts in the light of clear, transparent procedures, with tenders, a private investor undertakes to build a building, and in this respect he will receive a fee that will be agreed. Also, what is clean - and this is never to be heard again - is that, firstly, it concerns this shop, namely, what will be built in the place of the Korydalus prisons, secondly, it concerns construction and all matters which are not related to the hard core, namely, they are not confiscation, they are not safeguards. Clear, clear. I repeat, they are not about prison, they are not about safekeeping. To close this because there may be other penitentiary shops in the same way and I hope they will be done. However, I repeat, they relate to the level of construction and their maintenance, at construction, construction, and so forth and nothing more. On the issue of waste costs, secret funds - scandals, I have heard here - the relevant law on waste costs is invoked by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What does that say? That there is a procedure under which some money is spent and controlled here by the House. The claim that money is spent without proof, without documentary evidence and without control is irresponsible. Let's get this over with. Two more words. Firstly, on sites of supervised use. Look, we've been through this in committee too, I don't want to go any further. I think we're talking about something that we're doing last. All the countries of Europe have made it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u362	Not all of them, don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u363	All the countries of Europe! And, secondly, it is the continuation of the law that SYRIZA voted for just before the elections and simply an addition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u364	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u365	Thirdly, I would ask that anyone who has doubts come for a walk in the city. I, as the Minister responsible for dealing with this issue every day, which is huge, have to say that it is a drama and think about what a tragedy it is for the families of these children, the pain of the people. Most of all, this is what you want, which I personally move, not at just emotional level, but at political level how the families of these children can and live, when they have other children, you understand the pain, the drama of these people. It is not possible to drag human beings into the squares and on the streets. We need to find ways at least to protect them sanitaryly from public health. That's the point. And I conclude with the latest position of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative earlier, when I was attacked that almost human rights, asylum, etc. are being violated on a permanent basis. I don't know any asylum cases broken. Not even one! If anyone knows, tell me! Not one, I repeat! If anyone knows here, tell me. I don't have a point of order either. Secondly, I would like to say that my route to politics is plundered in terms of human rights. Let everyone say what they want. Can I tell you one more thing? Since I came to the Ministry, I've done the following things with my associates. Firstly, I brought back the discrepancies to the police, which I introduced in 2010, for some reason deactivated and thwarted in 2012, and now they have been put into practice and all the policemen are bringing discreetly. Secondly, a President-in-Office decree was issued in December with the new Disciplinary Law which has really received the congratulations of the Council of Europe and of the Court of Human Rights of the Council of Europe because it has been adapted to case law, something very brave and very bold. Today the provisions concerning the referral of incidents of violence to the mechanism for dealing with arbitrary and incidental violence are being voted on to the Citizens' Counselor. It comes from my side again today. And in a few days' time, the presidential decree on cameras and transparency, which the police itself will provoke with its actions, its actions, as part of always respect for human rights. So this kind of rhetoric - you know - is so old-fashioned and so heartless that it is not really productive either for politics itself or for those who emit it. I repeat, everyone has one route and the route is recorded every day in practice. The course of this government, as far as human rights are concerned, is recorded with all that I have told you. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u366	We will be closing down with the secondaryities of the rapporteurs and the special speakers, of course, if they want to speak. Mr. Kamines has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. I will say a few words about the amendment that came from the Ministry of Migration Policy, I will then speak about the sites of supervised use, and I will close with the prisons. As far as the amendment is concerned, it seems to me that many people have not understood what we are going to vote on. We are not just voting on the creation of a register in which NGOs will be recorded. We are voting on the creation of a register to record members, officials and partners from non-governmental organisations. We will have to record from an organisation such as the Red Cross, which has a few thousand members, hundreds of employees and associates, to the local club in hips that deliver English lessons to refugees. So wide is the wording of the provision, Minister. You didn't bring her. You adopted it. She's wide. It speaks of non-governmental organisations operating - in general - on issues of international protection, immigration and social inclusion. I, frankly, fail to understand how this can be done and how someone did not bother consulting the Privacy Authority for this story. That is why we are not going to vote on the provision, and it has some positive effect on the funding of the municipalities. We will not vote on the amendment. There is a matter of constitutional seriousness. Just to say that in 2012 there had been a corresponding concern for the National Social Solidarity Centre. The social care organizations should be recorded. At least there the members of the boards of directors were recorded. But here you come recording a whole organism like Red Cross, it seems to me unbelievable. For supervised use sites to say three words. It must not be delusional that there will be a great deal of rehab for people in this area. There are people who are in the last stage, people who are pierced on the road. As Mayor of Athens, I had, unfortunately, this sad experience. I have repeatedly voted in favour of these countries. We have to move on. I submitted for the record the report of the European Centre for Drugs and Dependence which speaks about June 2018. They've multiplyed. There are already seventy-eight centres across Europe in a number of ten countries. I'm coming to prison. I am pleased that this clarification has been made that privatization is not about the hard core, which includes confiscation and preservation. However, a sad practice of the previous government is renewed, the practice of appointing prisoners, staff, people who come and go, by way of derogation and temporarily, while there are results of notice 6K/2018. For the relocation only, I repeat that the construction of new prisons should be the subject of an assessment and review of the Special Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development Framework of Reservation Shops. This is a requirement of the legislator, and I hope that speaking of the Koudalus and that you have found space, you know what you're going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u368	Mrs Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, the intervention will be very short, so I will remain in my seat. I will be standing in three or four points very soon. First of all, I cannot help mentioning the relocation of prisons as a Member of Parliament. We were among the speakers who referred to the privatization of the penitentiary. We've been waiting for the Minister's explanation. I'm just going to share with you that I'm a new Member, but I've spent as a partner from the old SUDIAN, so I know the PPP Special Secretariat very well, just before Mr. Chrysochoidis takes over. So I'm staying in his statements that it's not about the penitentiary and the body of the penitentiary. We'll watch it from there, and here we'll be talking about it again. Surely I can't identify the constant request of the Korydallus people to transfer the Penitentiary. However, the precise and unambiguous plan remains. A piece is what we heard today. We have asked many questions on this and I, and many others, from SYRIZA, from the Change Movement and from other parties. Unfortunately, we have not received a clear answer. We hope to have more information soon. Now a brief comment on the extension of the prisoner's employment contracts. We are all aware that there is a direct need to deal with the underselling of all the stores. I saw it, too, as I had visited a few days ago, the Women's Guardian's Shop, I mean, and one problem was sub-selling, not just there, in all the stores. We think he's temporarily solving the problem. Unfortunately, it is a medicine that we give to the patient, which is our penitentiary system, but if there is no holistic treatment for the problem, we give him a pill without, however, giving him more. As far as the area of controlled use is concerned, we think it is positive, but we cannot support it. We shall vote'substances' in this particular case. Our thinking is double. On the one hand, there is no justification for funding, how the TTEs can cover it. On the other hand, the intended user register shall be abolished by any sense of anonymity. This is a red line for us. I close with the amendment that came from the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. For the repatriation of migrants and the contradictions you have been having in the last seven months, I have already been placed in my prototype. I will close with three very brief comments. First of all, although the responsibilities of the National Coordinator are limited, the position remains and rather remains to oversee the creation of all the barriers to be created. Secondly, according to the Government, the amendment will put order on the chaos of the refugee. I am passing on to the past seven months, the government has handled the refugee. It is therefore always responsible and co-responsible for the current crisis. In conclusion, I should like to say that as long as the New Democracy continues to deal with immigration as a matter of public order and not as a maximum humanitarian crisis, we will be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u371	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will speak quickly, because we have come to the end of a really marathon debate on a bill worthwhile to discuss and I think the debate will continue. I hope - and we all hope, of course - that the Secretary-General will succeed. Who else doesn't want it? It's a matter of human existence. It is a matter of the wealth of our country, culture, all that I think we will all try to do together, regardless of whether we have said our opinion. It's massive and embarrassing. I think it needs a more flexible plan. I wish you'd disprove us. Prevention, treatment and rehabilitation must be in the minds of all of us. Now let's go see some issues at once, because gentlemen of the government, Mr. Minister for Civil Protection, on the one hand we have the New Democracy that talks about the left-wing concepts, on the other hand we have SYRIZA, who talks about the extreme right-wing perceptions of the problems of illegal immigration, and in the middle we have the Greek people, who pulls everything, has lost their lives, asked for their islands back, asks for his homeland, asks for his own life back. You know, just now, the Moria Parliamentary, Mr Mastruggiannis, made a statement, saying 'State of the NGOs'. At first, they were trying to bribe me, to convince the inhabitants to accept the immigrants to the village. Now - it says - they blackmail us and threaten to burn our homes if my apologies to the NGOs for immigrants do not rent homes. They raise up illegal immigrants and put them - it says - to cross provocatively through the village.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u372	The Jews, the Jews.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u373	Leave now, Mr Dritsa, the Jews and the green horses. Sit down because you've ruined the country for four and a half years! [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Have a good seat! You're responsible! So leave the far right... [[Noise - Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Land in reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u374	Gather up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u375	Sit down, Janakopoulou! Get your ass up there! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u376	Pick it up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u377	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u378	It's like too much you've run! What's up? What are you talking I'm not talking? You'll hear it! You'll hear them, because I'm talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u379	I'm talking to a racist! Shame on you, racist!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u380	Shame on you! I'm a racist? Take a walk to unravel your head! Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u381	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u382	You're not ashamed! You're talking about people!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u383	What's that thing? Have I ever bothered you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u384	Why would we drop the level now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u385	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u386	You be ashamed of yourself! Have I told you anything when you're talking here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u387	We're talking about people!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u388	I'm talking about people. I'm talking about Greek though!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u389	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u390	What's your "dream" and "dream"? You brought the country here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u391	Racists!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u392	Racists against the Greeks are you! Not everyone! You personally! And please very much, another time when I talk and I don't bother you, don't bother me! Stay here and listen to them!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u393	Good. Keep going. Mr. Janakopoulos, it's within the topic...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u394	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but this is not a job! I've never interfered with Mr. Janakopoulos when he speaks!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Mylonakis, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, there are conditions for what we say about people in this House!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u397	No, there are no terms and limits when you speak in the context of democracy, Mr Janakopoulos!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u398	You're not talking in the context of democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u399	I'm not talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u400	You speak out of democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u401	Am I talking out? Oh, no! I'm talking in democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u402	If you keep going, we'll interrupt for tomorrow morning! The criticism may be hard, but it is in any case within the matter. He says his views here. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u403	I'm sorry, Mr. Dritsa, because you started this and you shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u404	I know very well where I'm responding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u405	Please, Mr. Mylonakis, continue. If there's an interruption, we'll interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u406	No one's gonna tell me about racism. I've got six thousand hours in the air, and I've saved a lot of people in the Aegean! So stop the candy and the fairy tale!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u407	Mr. Mylonakis, please, come to the point and go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u408	I would also like to end by ringing the bell to the government, in fact, because from now on there will be an incredibly big problem both in the islands and in mainland Greece. I think you should see it today. Look what they say about Leros Hospital. They came in and took from air conditioners to presses. They made a mess of it. So this is racism? In order not to continue, therefore, I should like to refer very quickly to Rule 189 and ask the Government, as Mr Syntrakis said, to say, of course, that the JRC - but also Mrs Marietta Giannakou, as will every reasonable man, to take this Article 189. We can't make fun of each other. Mr. Kamines said his point of view. I respect her, but I ask something, Mr. Kamine. If we put on supervised drug use sites, will the drug addict go and use there? Come to the Netherlands I live to take you to four or five squares, where they go at night and use drugs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u409	But that's what we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u410	No one's going, Mr. Kamin!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u411	But they don't exist!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u412	No, the Minister said they already exist. I say no matter what, no one's going! How's it going? Is there going to be someone who'll give him the drug over there? Anyway, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u413	But how's it going abroad?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u414	I don't know what's going on abroad. I know what's going on in Greece. I think that for the sake of our children, our grandsons and our fellow humans this bill should be withdrawn. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u415	We continue with Mr. Synthraki from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u416	Today in the debate three main issues have been overshadowed. One is civil protection on the basis of the draft law, the second is surveillance areas, and the third is refugee - immigration on the basis of the amendment tabled by the government, the ministry and the dramatic and unacceptable developments in Mytilini yesterday and today. But all these days it seemed that it divides our abyss into how everyone perceives the protection of human life, the safety of human life. And I'm explaining. As all previous governments have never been interested - but never - in designing, financing and doing serious infrastructure projects for the country's anti-nuclear, anti-military and anti-Semitism protection, for the safety of human life, for the fulfilment of basic needs that man has today, so with this draft law the Minister is now coming to his close and says that Matty was a symptom! Well, the Eye Symptom! The Halkidiki symptom? The Mandra symptom? Is Crete just a symptom? Last year, Crete was destroyed! This year, with a simple sink, he had the same phenomena he had last year! Are these just symptoms or the result of the policy pursued in order to serve the profit and profitability of business groups in all these three, namely, anti-Semitism and fire protection? The draft law also puts individuals in the field of prevention! We have warned of this, namely that the Eye for the government's strategic plans will be exploited, as these plans are provided for in this draft law, with privatisation, remuneration, NGO, voluntary work, i.e. unpaid work, militarisation of the Firehouse further! The same is true of supervised sites. So, it's a question of repression? So, you're dealing with the drug problem as a question of repression and not as a social problem? Because the causes are social, and therefore the solutions, the measures to be taken must be socially acceptable. In other words, you are not interested in prevention, rehabilitation or reintegration. Because the dry schedules, they were just playing that roll. And today you have KETHES and "18 UNO" to play this dirty work, that is to say, to set up supervised drug use sites, where thousands of young children had been released from drug addiction, drugs, other dependencies today, incriminate them and tell them: "Build areas of supervised death." This is a disgrace to you. Fortunately, a parliament here had the courage to place itself and put things in the way they really should be put in. And you know, if this policy and this measure are not served by Article 189, with specific interests and the concept was understood, then I'm sorry, but it's a political perversion, you know that you're not going to solve this problem and yet, you're going to make the black white or rather white to do it black. Unacceptable provision. That is why we insisted that it should be withdrawn. But you are showing how you perceive human life in the field of refugees - immigration. The government is exacerbating the situation. In Mytilini, on the islands, with the double engaging of refugees and migrants and exacerbating them for another reason, because by suppression against the refugees yesterday, in a pretext to mobilise them for the miserable living conditions on the islands, which have been closed in prisons, in ghettos, in concentration camps, you have swamped them with concrete-light grenades and other chemicals and you are using them as an alibi in order to impose these new closed structures, as is provided for in the ministerial amendment tabled, which is unacceptable. And we denounce it and we will vote against it. We will vote against the whole amendment, not because we would not like to fund functions, but in open, open-minded areas, but because it is getting more burdensome of the fact that you are also going to set up new closed pre-transitional structures by saving not seven thousand who are now, on the way fourteen. Of course, you are also taking advantage of the extremism of the people who are rightly reacting, because they are also experiencing this on our islands. We've told you too many times. Not only does New Democracy have responsibility, SYRIZA also has responsibility, because you both are accomplices to this crime, because you voted, you supported this unacceptable European Union - Turkey agreement that blocks refugees and immigrants twice. Because, you agree with the Dublin Regulation, you agree, you implement it, and you could force the European Union to accept refugees and immigrants. We told you to close those hot spots, the concentration camps. To transfer asylum seekers to mainland Greece in public open and dignified hospitality areas. And not only do you not do this, but you are faithfully serving your partners both in the European Union and NATO, which has every reason to roam around the Aegean, which you have turned into a clear vine. So we are voting against this amendment as a whole. In relation to the rating - payroll of the employees of the Fire Corps, which has been given a lot of talk, SYRIZA even came to the tiles. And I'd say now, did he remember the employees of the Fire Corps? The draft law, of course, creates and multiplys injustices against them, but it is a policy that began with the SYRIZA government. And, of course, these injustices to be lifted require the demilitarisation of the Fire Corps and the introduction of a new wage on the basis of the specificities and nature of the business of fire extinguishers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u417	Colleague, please if you can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u418	The Special Military Wage, currently in force, was established on SYRIZA in 2017 and is the most reactionary salary voted mainly for the Security Body. The JRC's position on the payroll of all fire workers: seasonal, five-year, low-grade and officers is that they have to have a payroll which provides for an indeterminate wage promotion based on years of service.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Synthraki, you've been over nine minutes. Please, if you can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u420	Let me have a bill with 200 articles, he had an amendment, he has serious issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u421	That's why there's a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u422	After all, too many of the JRC Members have not spoken. However, I should like to conclude by saying that the JRC's proposal provides for unresolved wage promotion on the basis of years of service, for all categories of fire extinguishers. The degree of qualification. Claims on the respective positions of responsibility of the staff member. Provision for special compensation for the possession of a diploma in higher education, postgraduate and doctoral qualifications. To apply the overworking scheme applicable to the rest of the public sector, namely overtime, nights, Sundays and exceptional days and, of course, heavy and unhealthy. And I close with the relocation of the Korydallus Prisoners, Mr. President. We are firmly in favour of the transfer of the Korydalou Prisoners, which is a long-standing demand from the inhabitants and we have strongly supported it. However, this must be done under specific conditions which will ensure their complete public construction and operation, without the public-private partnership, which will more than double the construction costs and, of course, will take it private after. Full respect for the rights of all detainees such as their pre-emption, the right place where there will be easy access for lawyers, relatives of the detainees.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u423	Good. Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u424	That is why we shall vote against this particular article. We believe that it does not guarantee that the conditions mentioned above will be met. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u425	SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mrs Harula Kafantaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u426	I won't abuse time. After all, 12 hours today we had a big conversation, torture. A lot of my colleagues have been placed by SYRIZA and have been placed in particular. I will only summarise some conclusions by saying that unfortunately, Minister, we have not been convinced of the correctness of this draft law, despite all the valuable efforts that Members of the government have made. This multi-legislative plan, which concerns many issues, reiterates that it has come without specific consultation and without specific scrutiny of the Special Committee on OTD Responsibilities and there are too many issues within the draft law that they have to deal with with as well. I would therefore say that we insist on the ineffectiveness of the planning for civil protection that it is really necessary to upgrade and modernise. And that's what I think all the parties in here have recognized. It's ineffective. It contains many contradictions and conflicting articles that I will not repeat, of course, now. And I think it does not respond to the three main issues that came out of the major natural disasters, either of Mandra, Matius, Halkidiki, Evia, don't forget, the dead may have been much less, but a man is something very important, so he does not respond to the need for coordination and does not give a solution, because it is a conclusion that comes out of natural disasters. It does not respond to bureaucracy, multi-teaching mechanisms are introduced here. Of course, it does not answer who decides the decision-making process, which has also come to a conclusion, a necessity, of the major natural disasters. However, I will come back with something that has been said by colleagues. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament has given a report on this draft law, and in this case it shows too many contradictions and puts a lot of questions. We have talked a great deal about the so-called classified funds. I will come and say that the report of the Scientific Committee states a specific procedure and what is involved with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about these confidential funds and secret expenses. It writes too much about the laws, whether the law of 2007 or the law of 2017, and concludes: ‘Since the legislature follows in accordance with the explanatory statement the model of the above-mentioned legislation concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Article 53 of the draft law needs to be supplemented.’ We have not received any answers for you, and the Scientific Committee of Parliament says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u427	They shall apply proportionately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u428	From there, however, I come to Article 27, which concerns the organised preventive evacuation of citizens, which, once again, are issues. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament again states that it needs specialization, Circular Edition, etc. Article 3 and Article 28 shall conflict with each other for the General Secretariat and the national mechanism. We are also coming to the USSR, which is about Article 36, which is a very serious matter, which is also mentioned in the Scientific Committee's report. This National Coordinating Centre is therefore established as a special agency of the Firehouse and not of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, as it should be, since the Firehouse is one of the many forces of civil protection, but supervised by the Secretary-General of Civil Protection. We have a downgrade of the Fire Corps, which is one of the two Security Bodies at the Civilian Ministry. Here is another serious issue, Article 39, with the degrading essentially of the Fire Academy, with the creation of the new legal person governed by public law, to which the Fire Academy, the National Crisis Management School, is subject. There is also a matter here about the supremacy of the Fire Academy and issues relating to the Ministry of Education. It seems that the Minister's signature has come in, but that is not the case, which is why we have criticised this article for the Fire Academy. I come to other issues that have to do with the Fire Corps, which are most of them, while it could be a separate bill. There are serious issues here with the evaluation process. It also refers to the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. We have to say here that the system and the system of transfers and promotions are issues on which each word hides something. I would like to say this: those who are happy - to say this - that a number of issues are resolved along the way - I am afraid that these contradictions and problems will appear. We have manipulation of the officers' crises, since the captain's rank will be judged by choice. The second characteristic point of the bill is that you are creating the party army of the future. That'll look pretty soon. I will also say that many articles would be voted on because they have some positive provisions. However, the articles, which other provisions within the same article are negative, have been formulated accordingly. To close, at the same time - I would say - this draft law is the confidential funds, the ineffective planning of civil protection and the creation of a party army of the future. I will make a wish: not to be judged on the field - and I stress that, and I think we understand - the inefficiency of this civil protection system. I really wish. On the other hand, there are other provisions relating to penitentiary establishments. We have been put and will be put by the vote. We have this amendment on immigration. Unfortunately, very racist and extreme speech have been heard in this Chamber in the temple of democracy, such as the Greek Parliament. Immigration is also becoming a serious national issue and a national issue needs to be addressed. It is an issue that both the ministers and the Minister and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Migration have tried to convince us, but they have not convinced anyone. It is precisely because the inconsistencies and constant humiliations of the New Democracy Government and the refugee section and the amendment that change the particular situation, which is, of course, the main one, with the Ministry of Migration Policy which was forced to re-establish. He needs seriousness, responsibility. We as a political force will support this issue, because - I say again - think it has a national dimension, but always through the rules of the UN, the High Commissioner for Human Rights and with substantial respect for human rights. Anyway, the government on this matter should be serious and be able to manage it. As positive as we do, we will help. As we understand it, the draft law is not going to be voted on at first, that is, we are voting against. On the articles, in the reasoning I analysed before, we will be placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u429	Mr Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u430	Before I begin my dentistry, in turn and by addressing the Minister, I should like to return and recall, Minister, a written proposal for the upgrading of the Atalanta Fire Station to a fire department, for operational and isotopeic reasons, as shown in the document, and as I hope it will be accepted through the general reform of the Firehouse. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I tried this morning to get my report fully in line with the spirit of the New Democracy and Prime Minister Mr Mitsotakis, to look forward, to show tomorrow, because I think that is what our country needs and not just fighting for the past. However, it is not good for those who have the recent and huge responsibility for the bad reaction of the civil protection mechanism with disastrous results to continue, despite the replies and clear positions of the bill, to refer to another bill that has never been made law, almost as a panacea that would, as I say, solve - all the problems of civil protection. History is not written with intentions, but with the result and I do not hide from you that many SYRIZA colleagues' positions have brought me to mind the late Charilao Floraki, who, in response to the criticism of the past in the government, said the famous "We have never done anything". SYRIZA colleagues New Democracy in six months has drafted and brings for the vote a new bill - and let me - very well worked out. You five years, but even after the Matty disaster you had at least the same time as us to bring in and vote for a similar law, but you didn't. Really, do you seriously claim that if you brought him in, he'd be a better law than ours? I do not claim that I have dispersed it, but I have looked at some points of characteristics and my sense is that it was a very theoretical plan complex and, above all, unconsciously and if there were two hundred staff to provide for a cost of EUR 200 million. You have spoken with criticism and strongly criticised how the poster can make decisions and replace heretic and elected bodies, and in the SYRIZA plan the three-member committee proposes and the Minister decides, with the same qualifications as the commander - we now call it coordinator - and closed for four or five years - I do not remember - a poster mandate and not only a poster commander, but also two sub-commanders with an annual charge of EUR 55,000 for him and EUR 94 000 for the two sub-commanders, namely EUR 150,000. Our project has a vertical, clear structure and, above all, is consistent, therefore effective. All staff are eighty people and the cost is much less than the EUR 200 million of yours. You have been abducted many times for the so-called Memorandum of Cooperation provided for in our bill, and in your bill there are clearly memorials of cooperation with OTA, with private individuals. Let's not forget all this. Finally, I cannot fail to express my discomfort by attempting officials of the Greek Solution to indirectly insult the patriotism of the government and Members of Parliament by calling them self-evident for any reasonable political reinforcement of self-government as supposedly means of releasing the conscientious consciences of the democrats by contemptling them with aid as a daring or even as a gift. Since the national strategy provides for the decongestion of the islands, it is self-evident and necessary to strengthen the municipalities contributing to its implementation. It is now, ladies and gentlemen, firmly my conviction that the bill is the nationally required answer to the unanswered because Mandra and the dead in the eye. It is the contribution of the New Democracy to building from the beginning of the lost confidence in society towards the state. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are voting on has a patriotic dimension and has to do with the security of our homeland with the safety of our children. It is a step forward for the Greek state, and that is why I think we should vote in favour of it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u431	The debate on the principle, articles and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection is adjourned: "National Risk Management and Management Mechanism, Restructuring of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, Upgrading of a System of Voluntary Civil Protection, Reorganisation of the Fire Corps and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, a hundred and eighty-nine articles, an amendment, a farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, as well as the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u432	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u433	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u434	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘National Risk Management and Management Mechanism, restructuring of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, upgrading of a system of Voluntary Civil Protection, reorganisation of the Fire Corps and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u435	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u436	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-04-S1-commons.u437	With the agreement of the House at 23.19 p.m., the meeting on Thursday, February 6, 2020, at 9 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; and (b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Institution, operation and operation of airports on water surfaces, transport arrangements and other provisions".
