ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report of Wednesday 11 November 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 121/3-11-2020, raised by MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "At the beginning, the taking of responsibility for the health and protection of pets. What role does the central veterinary services play in the health and protection of kept and stray pet animals?’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 135/9-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the illegally occupied allowances for the disabled". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 227/8-10-2020 of MP B3's South Athens section of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Twelvests of thousands of disabled people in the mercy of God in the midst of a pandemic, without the privileged privileges of prosperous disability which are entitled, due to tragic government failures." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance. (b) Settlement of the State’s Balance Sheet for the financial year 2018. The State's statement and balance sheet shall be discussed as laid down in the Rules of Procedure, with the appropriate application of Articles 122, 123(8), 107 and 97. In accordance with Rule 107, which applies accordingly, the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 5 November 2020 decided to hold the debate at a meeting with an organised debate. In particular, the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the ministers will be physically present in today's sitting. As far as the speakers on the list are concerned, the parliamentary groups have already indicated up to two Members who, for health reasons, will be involved through teleconferencing services, five minutes of speaking time. Only the rapporteurs have the right to do so after the last speaker's speech has been completed. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis, I would like to tell the speakers of the parties appointed to be connected to the system, but not to have it open. Follow the debate until we give them the floor. It is true that the speech will be given here to each speaker separately and then, after that, I will give the floor to the next speaker so that there are no simultaneous speeches. The names of the speakers appointed by the parties are as follows: Mr Charalambos Papademitriou, by SYRIZA, Mr. Ioannis Giolas, from the Movement of Change, Mr. Michael Katrinis and from Mera25 Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, was designated by New Democracy. The last speaker was Mr Athanasios Kavadas. If, of course, there is also a second party from a party that has not designated it or from a party that has not designated anyone, it is understood that it will be accepted. Mr. Lazarus Tsavdaridis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just three days ago the house "MODY'S" announced a new upgrade of Greece's credit rating, which, according to arguments, is based both on ongoing reforms that support a sustainable improvement in the strength of the institutions and which have already made tangible progress in areas such as tax administration and the fight against corruption, and on the fact that the country's development prospects in the coming years are positive, despite the short-term negative impact of the pandemic, especially in the tourism sector. What does that actually mean? It means that the international markets now attest to every opportunity, even at a pandemic time, that they trust the country with the Government of New Democracy at its steering wheel in all the necessary reform initiatives that will enhance the positive prospects of the Greek economy. At the same time, Mr. Tsipras, permanently on the margins of political developments and the charm of his inner-party frictions, as well as of Mr. Polakis' oppressed manpowers, for which he is constantly sorry, decided at an extraordinary press conference to mislead Greek citizens once again with even more lies about the country's economy. In view of the highly targeted, successful and effective economic and social policy of the New Democracy, which is recognised, both internally and internationally, by Mr Tsipras again, in his friendly tactics, for his unsuccessful crises and for the selective use of data, in order to convince that the Government is allegedly persecuting the employees, businesses and households in the midst of a pandemic. Unfortunately, it is not only for him anymore that daily life disguises him, but also the official economic data of the days of his own government, such as what we are discussing today about the accountancy and balance sheet of the last year that has had the reunification of the country, the economic sector, namely, the year 2018. They are elements of a year that demonstrate the absolute unreliableness of words and works, wishes and events of a government that only managed to achieve sufficient success was to divide society, dismantle the institutions, mine the positive prospects of the economy and blur healthy entrepreneurship. Mr. Tsipras, who raised the criticism four days ago, hypocritically saying that Greece is one of the Uzbekistans in Europe, in terms of recession, is the same Mr. Tsipras who "expressed the island" when the Public Investment Plan of 2018 had a lesser rate of 3 billion euros than the targets that the government itself had set in the budgets he prepared, although he then promised growth in the 2019 budget debate and committed that the Public Investment Programme would be implemented annually. Of course, when he said that every year he would execute the Public Investment Programme, he probably meant it literally, as it seemed, he did, but in cold blood! Also, Mr. Tsipras four days ago had the courage to falsely accuse the Government of New Democracy of not ensuring any income support for households and self-employed at a time of pandemic. Who said that? The unrepentant Mr. Tsipras, who did not have a pandemic in 2018, added twenty-nine new taxes, brought EUR 10 billion new austerity measures, proceeded to seventeen pension cuts and completed the only work carried out by his government, the disappearance of the middle class. Even Mr Tsipras four days before he hypocritically accused us that we do not pay the wages adequately and that there is not a subsidy for rental businesses. Who said that? Unreliable Mr. Tsipras who, while saying he would raise EUR 3 billion from tax evasion in six months, collected EUR 150 million in four years. The pluralist Mr Tsipras, who, while committing that public debts will be cleared quickly, then reached more than EUR 2.5 billion. The off-site and time Mr. Tsipras, who, while managing economic progress, had exceeded the total debts of the Greeks at the end of 2018 at the end of the year, had exceeded EUR 103 billion, with half the population owed and unable to pay, nor to settle its debts, while at the same time Greek citizens' deposits in November 2018 barely reached EUR 108 billion compared to the EUR 136 billion in November 2014, but also the EUR 151,8 billion in August 2020. And of course, Mr. Tsipras of 2018, the hypocritical fighter of the banks, who gave the citizens a ‘no house in the hands of a banker’, is himself Mr. Tsipras who, in the budget debate of 2019, cared for the banks, saying, from the Step of the House: "As for the first home, we plan to convert red loans to serviceables, which will help further reorganise bank balances and free funds for financing the economy," finally led by a government that closed massively and electronically thousands of houses and proceeded to a million two thousand seizures. It came to the point some time ago, from the opposition benches, wanting to rethink the revolutionary gymnastics of the past, to table a motion of censure against the current, absolutely successful Minister of Finance, Mr Staikora, on the occasion of the new bankruptcy code. And what did he do? To substantially transform this motion of censure into a motion of censure against his, the then Minister of State, Mr Tsakalotou, who left uncovered for taxes, electronic auctions and the horizontal abolition of the protection of the first residence, which, of course, were made in the rule of SYRIZA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors' report on the financial year 2018, presented a few times ago by the President of the Court of Auditors, a distinguished legal person, Mr Ioannis Sarmas, in the competent committee of Parliament, accurately describes many aspects of the failed SYRIZA policy: the increase in public debt by EUR 60 billion in 2018 compared to that of 2009, the decrease in the country's GDP by EUR 53 billion in 2018 in relation to GDP in 2009, the gradual increase in the outstanding balance to be recovered, a balance which in the financial year 2018 amounted to approximately EUR 104 billion and increased compared to the previous financial year by approximately EUR 4 billion in the previous financial year, the low collection rates of past financial year's taxes showing the ineffectiveness of old debt arrangements combined with the consolidation of new categories of taxes, the unscheduled and irreversible increase in the public sector in the years SYRIZA, which increased the ineffectiveness of old-age pensions with almost 2 billions in the late-year-year-year-year-year-old deficit ratio ratio of nearly-finance-finance, which has already brought to an excessively anticipiently anticipiently anticipiently anticipiently anticiples. At the same time, the Court of Auditors' report also gives the compass for the future, pointing out a number of malfunctions that the central administration must correct, such as the problem of the absence of a freeze register in the central government's administration, the problem of the absence of a warehouse book for the determination of the Central Government's immovable and movable property, the lack of procedures for the provision of financial risk, the risk with insurance, which requires the Government's constant vigilance for further corrective actions, the need to create a special reserve for the uncertain financial risks, and the need to make better use of Community funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u4	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the years of SYRIZA governance were the years of unnecessarily recession, downsizing competitiveness, income and credit condensation, institutional degradation. The years of the new governance of the New Democracy are indebted to us, and that is why we are trying to keep every day to the years of national regeneration, social reconstruction and economic upheaval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u6	I would now ask the Special Rapporteur, Mrs Papanatziou, of the SYRIZA, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, can I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u8	Proceedings?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u9	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u10	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u11	I would just like a clarification from you on the subject of today's debate, because either my good colleague came to the wrong Chamber because I thought it was a speech about what Mr Tsipras has said over the last three years, or I have come to the wrong Chamber, so I should leave and go where I should be, to the balance sheet debate. I would just like a clarification on the subject of today's debate. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr Tsakalotos, as you know, in theory, if we apply the Rules of Procedure - and I am referring in particular to Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure - the speakers must not leave the agenda. In practice, however, it has been tolerated - I will not say by custom, but a habit, a practice - that the parties' leaders and rapporteurs have often spoken on issues that are not on the agenda. In this connection, there is a tolerance from plenary, a tradition, I would say, that this is happening. In fact, in Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraphs 8 and 9, if I remember correctly, these are matters, but unfortunately or happily, if you wish, we often escape a little and talk about topicality and combine these issues. However, the request is as limited as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u13	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u14	There's no other matter now, it's not personal. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we continue the debate on the budget for the financial year 2018, the balance sheet and the balance sheet, at a time of new restrictive measures and with society on its limits. So the debate on the balance sheet and balance sheet of a budget three years later seems paradoxical, but it is not. We are in the face of a new major recession with the responsibility of the government and the measures it has taken or better of those that have not taken all this time to strengthen society. For the New Democracy society is following the economy. For us, economic growth cannot exist if it gives rise to social inequalities and exclusion. So the analysis of counter-population has not changed either for what led us to the previous ten-year crisis or for how we managed to get out of it. With this in mind, we will never agree with the New Democracy on what led us to 2014 and what happened in 2015-2019 and unfortunately what is happening right now. I would like to refer to a few points from the previous debate in the committee which I would not like them to be involved in. First, the rapporteur of the New Democracy referred to the austerity measures of 2015-2019 and the multi-adjusted twenty-nine taxes of SYRIZA. We have said this many times and it is a real pity that things are constantly being said arbitrary in Parliament. So in the twenty-nine taxes of SYRIZA you are counting the framework for electronic transactions, but I do not imagine that someone here has an objection to this framework. We certainly disagree on how to apply, since you chose the horizontal rate of electronic transactions, removing it from duty-free building, thus favouring the highest income scales. Count also the new framework for shadow hospitality, AirBnB. But here too, I do not imagine that you have a problem with the creation of a framework. Did you want him to remain in the spectrum of the para-economics? Count the environmental fee for the use of plastic bag. Do you have a problem with that, too? I guess not, after you've raised it. Or do you have a problem with tax treatment of the new electronic cigarette then? I guess not. You also counted taxes imposed in previous years. Let us remind you, if you have a short memory, that HNPH is a law of 2013 and indeed a financially heavy law. If we look at some of the basic taxes imposed during the first two memoranda, such as the trade fee, the changes in the solidarity levy, the abovementioned taxes, the amount of the certificate is close to EUR 18 billion, while the overall tax measures of the first two memoranda are costing around EUR 36 billion. If we add expenditure cuts, the burden goes beyond EUR 70 billion. We can continue the comparisons if you want, but that is not the point of the political debate. We know that in the period 2010-2014 a horizontal option was clearly made for interventions both on the revenue side and on the revenue side, as well as on the expenditure side: social state, wages, work, pensions. The choice of internal devaluation at all levels, therefore, has hit the country which has lost much of GDP in a few years. This attempted to reverse the SYRIZA government. Point two. On the point of criticism of tax evasion and 150 million, I cannot say any more. In 2015-2019 policies were introduced to curb the phenomenon, such as the voluntary disclosure of income of EUR 750 million, the electronic transactions that increased VAT collection by around EUR 300 million, while tax revenues increased by EUR 5.2% or EUR 780 million in 2017-2018. Point 3, concerning the reference to debt and GDP compared to 2019 to which the new Republic's rapporteur referred. GDP fell from EUR 224 billion in 2010 to EUR 177 billion in 2014 at current prices that we are interested in looking at both the impact of taxes and the ratio of debt and after the revision. In 2018, and after three years of recovery, it is growing to EUR 179,7 billion in line with the review. At constant 2015 prices we are interested in calculating the growth rate, 2018 GDP is EUR 180.3 billion, according to ELSTAT at all times. The reason why nominal GDP is less than real for 2018 is that overall prices have fallen, i.e. inflation has been negative. But what the Minister scrupulously tried to describe and left us quite a few questions. First of all, let us note that any use of this review of correlation with the current recession seems to me to be unacceptable. The current recession resulting from exogenous factors but with a restrictive management character by the Government leaves the Government itself on the verge. It is not about any review even if it is accepted by international organisations. The revision is too small for the practice that they have such revisions. I would like here to remind you of what happened in the country when the so-called fiscal census had been preceded in 2006, the then Minister of Haloscoufs wanted to revise GDP at 26%, from EUR 181 billion to EUR 228 billion for reasons of financial surveillance. Ultimately, in 2007, EUROSTAT accepted only 9.7%, which again means an increase of around EUR 18 billion. It cannot be accepted and it is suggested that at this stage we will be succumbing to the 2021 budget because we received less produced product and that increases the needs of the country. Such an approach leaves open potential for spending cuts in the next period. At this point I would like to hear the Government's thoughts. Our goal since the beginning of 2015 has been to recover degrees of freedom in economic policy making and ultimately national sovereignty. This objective was conditional on the country's being able to borrow freely and with low interest rates on international markets. In order to achieve this objective, the credibility of Greek debt, Greek debt securities and also, in general, fiscal policy and confidence in the prospects of the Greek economy were restored. In addition, our parallel goal was that any growth should come in a sustainable way, namely with society upright. We want and we believe that we have achieved that too. The economic strategy of the government of SYRIZA on dealing with the structural pathogens of the Greek economy to deal with the twin deficits and combined with the change of the policy mix led to the possibility of designing more policies with a social sign. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, I would like. I'll be done in a minute. The third programme was the only one that was completed with any criticism of it and led to a series of government debt relief and settlement measures that included reductions in interest rates, deferral and extension of repayment time. These measures have made it sustainable, which is reflected on page 88 of the Court of Auditors' report. We were therefore given the space to plan and move to the mid-term reduction of HPAI with an emphasis on small and medium-sized property, the reasoned reduction in the taxation of legal persons, the extension of the School Lunch programme, the increase in the minimum wage, the third pension, the one hundred twenty-two instalments in tax and insurance funds, the reduction of VAT on catering and food from 24% to 13% respectively in energy to 6%. Finally, a social dividend totalling EUR 790 million was paid for the third time, with the introduction of an electronic application and a procedure. At the same time, the social income of solidarity has been established. Overall we received a budget of 780 million in 2015 and delivered to 3.5 billion. Unfortunately, with the present government, we are going through a period of recession again. The New Democracy does not want to understand the mistakes of the past. Why? Because for the New Democracy, they are not mistakes, they are ideological, they are practical. Compression of incomes and internal devaluation is a way of policy. The next day of the pandemic with politically unpaid overtime, generalised bankruptcy code and forgiveness of sins in thousands of tax cases will leave no room for social and economic development. We will be ready and ready, however, to reverse this image again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u16	Thank you too, Mrs Panancheu. Mr Georgios Arvanitides, special speaker of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate gives a very good opportunity to make an account of the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL and to draw critical conclusions on how different, if the policies of the then-government SYRIZA - ANEL differ from those of the New Democracy today. And I begin with the famous pillow of the previous government. SYRIZA likes to remind the cash they left, but omission to say how they collected them, but also what damage their policy of 2015 caused. First, the loss of income in the four years 2015-2018 exceeded EUR 55 billion in relation to the forecasts made by the European Commission for the Greek economy at the end of 2014. At the same time, not only did we benefit from the budget area that Mr Tsipras supposedly left, but we paid a total of more than 20 billion additional measures in the third memorandum to achieve lower budgetary targets than those foreseen in 2014 for the four-year period 2015-2018. It is recalled that the vast majority of these measures were tax. In fact, 2018 was another year, as in 2015, 2016 and 2017, where the ratio of indirect taxes to direct taxes is dramatically increasing. From the historical low 1.15% of 2014 it gradually reached 1.39% in 2018 that proportion of indirect taxes to direct taxes on total tax revenue, as the Court of Auditors' report tells us on page 8. Therefore, cash assets, the national arm, have accumulated almost exclusively from the taxes of small and medium-sized households. For this reason, and it is impatient that SYRIZA tells us that in 2018 a social dividend of 790 million was granted from excesses of the target primary surpluses of 3.5%. These arguments are contrary to every concept of rationalization. It is not social policy to collect from the people's households 40% of their incomes into indirect taxes, insurance and health contributions, and then return them very little, and this greatness even depends on the will of the Minister of Finance alone. The Court of Auditors' report mentions other, very revealing elements, such as, for example, participations in listed companies were valued at the stock exchange price at 31-12-2018 to 1.5 billion euros and showed a 764 million euro cut over the previous year. It is also obvious that, at the level of public debt, the Greek State lost 20 billion euros from its participation in banks through the CFS and suffered the loss of ANFAs and SMPs, from 2014 to 2015, another 6 billion euros. These amounts were intended to reduce government debt evenly and would lead, together with growth, to much lower debt levels. On the contrary, 2018 was a year when the central government's debt was increased by 30.2 billion euros, while the central government's total debt reached 194.3%. To a large extent, the increase is due, as stated in page 24 of the Court of Auditors' report, to additional disbursements from the ESM of EUR 15 699 million, and in particular to additional disbursements from the ESM in order to create the security reserve, the known cast-buffer. The Minority rapporteur, in the debate in committee, said that on 20 August 2018 Greece successfully completed the European Stability Mechanism's programme of economic adjustment and ensured a package of public debt control, relief and settlement measures, which included reductions in interest rates, deferring and extending the repayment period, and these measures have now made it viable, which is reflected on page 88 of the Court's report. That's what he said. Let me remind you, however, that the sustainability of the debt was substantially secured by the PSI, this damn PSI. All the rest was in front of the'spirins'. The conclusion isn't mine. The majority rapporteur should take a closer look at page 123 of the 2018 explanatory statement, which she then co-signed, as Deputy Minister of Finance, on what they said about the PSI. The result is, therefore, one: The reserves that SYRIZA cut from the tax bleeding of small and medium-sized households and the increase in public debt. Furthermore, this 'cushion' with the reserves has inside the hidden pins and is drugged, because the part that constitutes the resources of the ESM can only be taken after the clause has been activated by the ESM, which means, in essence, a new memorandum. Conclusion? The multi-advertised cash flow is not directly available. And I now come to the New Democracy that follows exactly the same tactic and policy as the SYRIZA - ANEL government. SYRIZA's rapporteur says at that time that we were given the space so that in the next few months, both in 2018, as well as mainly after our country's exit from the Adjustment Programme in 2019, we can draw up and proceed - precisely this is what he said - in a medium-term reduction in HPAI, with an emphasis on small and medium-sized assets, which New Democracy reiterated, then, the reasoned intention of reducing the tax burden on legal persons from 29% in 2018 to 25% in 2022, which the New Democracy has accelerated and brought to 24% on tax revenues in the year 2019. Of course, New Democracy has also brought down dividend tax from 10% to 5%, since SYRIZA had made it 10% from 15% and introduced preferential tax treatment to corporate bonuses with share-shaped and stock options. All of this shows us that the New Democracy is walking in exactly the same direction of SYRIZA - ANEL policy, that it is seeing the economy in a sense, without seeing far and perceiving the international round. An issue that, both SYRIZA and New Democracy, have been inferior to the circumstances is the question of the costing of real estate, of public property, which is still a question, as the Court of Auditors' report points out. Mr. Skakakis in his report to the committee referred to the difficulty of this project. We do not need to know the absolute cost, but the New Democracy Government has not yet been able to inform public opinion and parliament, despite our constant indebtedness, of what the tens of thousands of nineteen properties were transferred from the superstate to SYRIZA - ANEL, which are the archaeological sites that were eventually returned to the public and what is to be done about the rest. Of course, the New Democracy, instead of reducing the overcrowding power, is increasing it, since it has also transferred investment income to 5G technologies. Finally, the Court of Auditors' report focuses on increasing private debt and public debt. These two continue even today to grow at a glossy rate and will stay in the country even when the pandemic has been sanitaryly recovered. The public debt will be drastically increased due to ELSTAT's pandemic and to ELSTAT's revision, following the transfer of the base year from 2010 to 2015. Private debt in public, insurance funds and banks continues to grow, despite the fact that 30 billion of red loans were transferred to funds. Once again, the government's measures to support businesses, professionals and workers have proved to be fragmentary and inadequate. Self-employed and scientists will not receive any support except for the reduction of rent in the affected sectors, while the repayable advance, which remains unknown when it will be granted, will not be accompanied by support measures for jobs when companies reopen. As far as VAT obligations and regulations are concerned, of course, the government is simply kicking the dene. It extends payment deadlines until 30-4-2021, but without taking into account the fact that when entrepreneurs and professionals are called upon to pay, they will work with very reduced turnovers to no-existent ones. At the same time, he takes no care of the current obligations of HICPIA, income tax or insurance contributions, which are directly due. Ladies and gentlemen, with all the above conclusions, it is clear that we are rejecting and voting against the 2018 balance sheet. We reject the short-sighted logic and approach adopted by the SYRIZA-ANEL Government at the time and reject the same practices as the New Democracy Government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u18	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, thank you very much, as well as my colleague from the JRC. Ladies and gentlemen, in our initial programme, as well as in our analyses for many years now, we are talking about the importance of drawing up a good balance sheet for the country, as well as about the fact that the balance sheet together with the balance sheet is much more important than the budget, which should be discussed within the next three months of the end of each year and, of course, in no case at all two years later, since we are discussing, in fact, about a thousand pages of this year. If that's possible! Why are they more important? Because they are actual figures on an amended basis by ELSTAT and not draft paper, such as the budget. The balance sheet shows the country's net position, on the basis of which we are judged by rating companies, investors and everyone else. Each operator is aware of the importance of the balance sheet, as it turns out, except for the governments of the country. When we are now being presented with a 2018 report, with a number of different sizes in relation to the same ones as in the 2021 budget, as we analysed in committee, as well as a balance sheet with Greece's net position in the other EUR 217 billion, what confidence can one have in the country? A negative position here, at the other than 217 billion, means that if Greece sells what it has and does not have, its military equipment, its roads, its ports, its buildings and so on, it will in the end owe 217 billion more. Of course, the balance sheet does not show the value of our energy deposits or of German allowances, as it certainly should. It is 300 billion and we have every right to put it in the balance sheet. On the other hand, the balance sheet has so many mistakes, many of which we have already mentioned in the committee, as well as in the balance sheet, and the Court of Auditors itself has eighteen comments, describing both perforations and we do not understand who could vote in favour of them. It may well have been the Civic Opposition, as it concerned its own government period, but under no circumstances the other parties and the Couple. Why, then, did the government vote for him when it would force its Members to do the same today? Is this a coup d'état? In other words, will you, the Members of the New Democracy, vote on a balance sheet and a balance sheet that is not even approved by the Court of Auditors, while they are filled with incredible mistakes? Aren't you going to be ashamed of them to the Greeks, at least of your party that you represent? We will now give you some examples of the minimum time allowed by the process, obviously, to understand the crime that the Prime Minister obliges you to do, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with the dozens of criminal offences we have seen, even though nothing has changed at all in the SYRIZA balance sheet since last year since you voted for it again. With regard to the balance sheet, I should like to say: First, in the 2018 report you appear as a operational result in the cash flow of EUR 3,3 billion, which does not cover the financial costs of EUR 7,68 billion, so in the end we have a deficit of EUR 4,37 billion. Secondly, on the contrary, the 2020 budget refers to a primary surplus of 7.9 billion on a cash basis covering the financial costs of EUR 7.679 billion, on the basis of the tables that we will table later on for the Minutes. How is it possible here to have a primary surplus in the budget covering interest and balance sheet deficits? It makes no sense at all. However, the Court of Auditors has informed us that what is counting is the elements of the report and it seems that all the years of the memorandum were in fact incomplete, as we will be tabling for the Minutes. As far as investment is concerned, the important thing is that on page 57 of the Court of Auditors there is a reduction in the Public Investment Programme, especially in the co-financed part of 5.75 billion, at 3.6 billion, while the national component has increased from 1 billion to 2.6 billion. In addition, low absorption is reported at 25%. In addition, the balance sheet shows the influx from the European Union only of 2,2 billion for 2017 and 2018, while most of the NSAs were driven to TAP and to the fourteen airports of ‘FRAPORT’. Why are EU funds being reduced and how can it be doubled? What happened? Why should we fund the German 'FRAPORT' Community programmes? Does it make sense? There is no record of the government's balance sheet at all at all, as noted by both the Court of Auditors and the 2017 balance sheet. Therefore, either there is no register of fixed assets or there is no fixed register. However, the reversal of the shameful concession of the two thousand three hundred monuments, which we will be tabling for the Minutes, confirms that there is a permanent existence, recalling that no valuation has been made in the EBRD's regularity at the time of their concession, nor now in the balance sheet, as the Court of Auditors says in its report. Is it not a criminal offence, then, to transfer, without valuation, the public's standing to the supreme foreigners, especially to the EBRD, to a foreign entity? Has the Government seen the remark of six and paragraph 2.1.1 on pages 69 to 72 of the Court of Auditors' report, documents which we shall be tabling in the Minutes? How is it possible for lenders to know what is fixed to carry to EBRD and not to know the public's fixed assets, since there is no record of fixed assets at all? However, the Court of Auditors' report for 2018 states that the total number of properties held by the EBRD under Article 196 of L.4389/2016 is about seventy-seven thousand, of which only for the two thousand five hundred twenty-nine have been estimated to be fair value. The Court of Auditors writes this, not us. In the EBRD balance sheet of 2018, there appears to be seventy thousand five hundred real estates worth 895 000 - we will deposit the relevant items in the Minutes - valued at around 12,500 euros each. Is this possible, in addition, when it comes to two hundred ten tourist properties, such as hotels, marinas, ski resorts, golf, etc., eight Olympics and about seventy thousand real estate titles of private public property? Another example is the equipment of the Armed Forces, which is only estimated at 84,000 000, as we will testify in the Minutes. Six hundred planes, of which ninety-seven are F-16 and Mirage, hundred thirteen ships, of which thirteen wells and four modern submarine Class 214 submarines and over a thousand armoured tanks, etc. cost so little? In addition, the accounting value of one hundred and twenty-three real estates of HSY, after deduction of those sold, in its balance sheet, on pages 28 to 31 and 45, which we will present in the minutes, appears to be a total of 39.659 euros. So each one costs just 298 euros! Is that possible and can anyone sign this? Should we not check, as we can ask, from the Court of Auditors? In conclusion, I would like to say that there are similar problems in participation, where the valuations are fictitious, with the result that the sale of the "Eleftherios Venizelos" at first - we all remember it - which Mr Georgiadis rightly described as a "carabinatis" case for a special court, as we will testify in the Minutes, without, of course, launching this. We will obviously vote against both, hoping that all other parties will do the same, but, above all, the Members of the New Democracy and the Government, the main leaders, in other words, since their party governs Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Georgios Logiadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I will start from the position of Mr. Pylakakis on 5 November in committee, where he rightly states that a revision of GDP figures took place in 2018 and reports two figures, 184,7 and 179.7 million. And he says below, "What we received was 4 billion below what was appearing". Mr. Dogman, it's 5 billion dollars. That is what you are talking about in committee on 5 November. Two numbers, 184,7 and 179,7. It's written, I read it, and I say it. And you continue: "The Statistical Office should explain to us how this was done." But it's simple. It may be an independent authority, but it always receives orders from the individual government. And then you, yourself, go on again, that "The fact that we had less GDP makes it even more imperative to reduce overtaxation, but it becomes more difficult after the data we have because of a pandemic." It is what we as PART 25 stress that the Fifth Memorandum has already come. Overtaxation, as you say, and as you have said here on 10 September, will continue and intensify. That is exactly what we condemn. Merra 25 calls for and suggests deletion rather than suspension for tax and insurance obligations, just as GSEI does. The President of the Court of Auditors said that revenue fell out - beyond international practice, which is between 0.5% and 3% - by 5.7%. And where was the great delay was in other transfers and assistance from the European Union, namely from the Regional Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Community Fund. You are not in a position to take EU aid. However, the primary surplus instead of 3.5% committed as a SYRIZA government - ANEL you are able to take it to 4.55%. Congratulations on the enslavement and bleeding of the Greek people. Furthermore, for direct and indirect taxes, I have the following to say: From 2016 to 2018, direct taxes have been reduced and indirect taxes have respectively been increased. Let us stress that indirect taxes are a socially unacceptable model of taxation as they impose all citizens regardless of their type of income. The Court of Auditors, as its chairman, continues with the fact that it has repeatedly established that there is not always a register of fixed assets. Another issue, he says, is also public participation in companies that are not listed on the Stock Exchange. There again, the answer from the Ministry of Finance is simply that it explains the phenomenon, but it is not in the direction of a solution. Another remark of the Court of Auditors, repeated, is on the move. The precarious demands amount to 104 billion, but they are all included since 1975, and we know that they will not be satisfied. Tax revenue. dubious collection of fines of EUR 32.4 billion, which should normally have been compensated for as unacceptable collection, records the Court of Auditors in its report. This, then, presents a virtual picture of the whole situation. The ESRB's absorption is too small, as the Court of Auditors has told us and public debt is growing. We see the Court of Auditors' observations. Paragraph 2 states that it is contrary to the provisions of Article 79(2) of the Constitution. In point 6, it says that a register of fixed assets has not been established. The creation of fixed assets is an essential budgetary obligation to determine, among other things, the sound financial position of the central administration at that time. It is therefore not possible to manage and account for them and to violate basic accounting principles. In point 12 it says again how it runs counter to basic accounting principles. In point 15, it reads 'in contravention of accounting principles' in point 16 that 'to date no attempt has been made to resolve these issues despite the Court of Auditors' points'. And, of course, it concludes that, without prejudice to all these findings, it shall decide in favour of correctness. The report by the Minister of Finance concludes that the proper management of all these issues and the improvement of the completeness of the drafted financial statements is the goal of the accounting reform that you have set as an objective in 2023, as you said, Mr Doglakas, in committee. Very good, but the President of the Court of Auditors told us on the same day that he considered this to be an ideal situation. It's gonna be hard. And I continue by copying what the President said: 'I would say that by 2023 all this will be done and I believe that if the Minister decides, it will be done. But it's not easy." If you will read the replies of the Ministry of Finance in November 2019 on the recording of fixed assets, etc., you will see that there are about five to six cases of difficulties that show that they have not encountered them - at least they had not been dealt with a year ago - and at the end they end up on 1-1-2023 without a reference to the progress made or will be made. In 2018, the Greek State was obliged to achieve a primary surplus financial result of 3.5%. SYRIZA, of course, continued from where previous memorial rulers left it. The notorious e-mail Hardouvelis was talking about a surplus of 4.5%. SYRIZA threw it at 3.5% and permanently stopped it until 2060. So while the two so-called commemorative gladiators stand on the type of suns, how much better each of them negotiated the terms of the debt-poory Greece, we in the Merra25 accept the accusation that we are obsessed with the debt and the primary surpluses imposed by our creditors as a method of repayment, a method which has been temporarily put into ice because of pandemic. From the outset we said that this method is socially destructive, that it turns our country into a debt-saving colony, and we stressed that with these policies of extreme austerity, in order to concentrate this sacrifice of the private sector on unsustainable debt, our economy is being destroyed, our young people are migrating, the public health, education and welfare system is falling apart. We note that by definition a public sector surplus means a private deficit. The amount of the primary surplus for 2018 was finally 4,45% of GDP, i.e. around 8 billion. From this amount of 3.5% of GDP, which was the commitment of the SYRIZA and the New Democracy, was directed towards the repayment of the unsustainable public debt, i.e. it was literally burnt, it was not recycled in the Greek economy, while the remaining 0.9%, the notorious surplus of SYRIZA, shared the so-called social dividend. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Here we owe a few words about this SYRIZA fraud to the citizens: As they were overtaxing, they were distracted by 4.45% of production, returning to society a fraction of the surplus. This is and was the redistributive policy from the citizens to the lenders. And we come today in the midst of a pandemic where the government imposed the second quarantine on the grounds of the health system. Let us consider, then, that only since 2018 has the state budgetaryly exaggerated the citizens, bleeding out 8 billion of whom have been sacrificed at the altar of an unsustainable debt. Let us consider whether the amount had been spent on the public health, education, welfare, and we are only talking for one year. For all these reasons I mentioned, real, legal, economic, social, we are voting against both. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u23	The 2018 balance sheet and balance sheet, drawn up on the basis of statements of general accountability and public financial services, is of interest in terms of estimates and corrections in accounting figures and also accounting standards, and of course also the observations of the Court of Auditors, as set out in its report. However, for us and the world that sees us and listens to us, the interest is to see if we appreciated correctly as a Communist Party of Greece in 2018 and whether the life of the working people's family improved or worsened, of course, and also to be discussed at the look of today's news. Because the Government and the rapporteur of the New Democracy may say that they need to enter international accounting standards normally on the papers of the State or that we need to move from the central government's balance sheet to one of the general government, or even that overtaxing of 2018 was significantly higher, because taxes were taken from smaller Gross Domestic Product. However, the essence is that this anti-popular barbaric policy, expressed and captured in the 2018 budget on SYRIZA, also continues with the Government of New Democracy at the expense of the working class and the populace. And if you want, there's only substantial tax relief for business groups. The massacre in wages, pensions and all the rights left, such as the liberation of working time, unpaid overtime, rotating work and telework, the new reinsurance measures, the reduction of contributions, the further privatisation of ancillary insurance, the strengthening of the capitalist character, the new bankruptcy code. These are a follow-up to the policies of the previous government. That's right. New burdens are being loaded, the burdens of the new crisis on the people, sacrificing the satisfaction of the people's needs in the altar of restarting the capitalist economy. For us, therefore, it is interesting to account for 2018 in terms of whether it has improved the pay of work, if it has improved the conditions for the provision and protection of public health, for the education of people's children, for the provision of infrastructure for popular housing and public buildings, for anti-Semitism, anti-military, anti-nuclear protection, for modern school rooms, adequate day-care stations, modern hospitals etc. We are responding and confirmed: 'No, no such things have been done'. And we appreciated it and said it in 2018. Why? Firstly, the SYRIZA government could then claim to be the last budget in memorandum conditions and the beginning of the country's exit from the memoranda. However, all the Memorandum Laws remain, applied by the current government and some are changed to the worst for people's lives, from strangling collective labour contracts to the right to strike, and inadequate measures in hospitals, transportation, workplaces, schools, to protect from pandemic and so on. Secondly, primary surpluses were signed during the same period in 2018 until 2060, amounting to 2%. They are the bloody surpluses for the working class and the folk family as a whole. And they're still going on today. Let the current government be critical that there is a need to reduce the overtaxation that it claims to be difficult because of a pandemic. And he also says that he reduced the surplus by putting on the special reserve, i.e. "Yiannis became Giannakis". Of course, overtaxation is only seen by businessmen and has stumbled since the very first moment to relax them by reducing the tax rate, and even before the pandemic. Thirdly, we have typically come out of the memoranda with their active Memorandum Laws and the strengthening of European supervision in the Member States - the eurozone to monitor the direction of strengthening and shielding European governance. This also marks a new burden in the context of fiscal consolidation for people's strata. And we experience these, as we experience the false hopes of fair growth that SYRIZA was propagating, since the development of the capitalist system from its very nature is unfair, it is class development. Your only concern is to shield capitalist profitability from the increase in labour force exploitation. And that is what you are doing whether it is a 2018 budget, a 2020 budget, or 2021, because you are hierarchy of what is best for business groups, what the Greek Industrial Association is asking for. We're seeing it today. The government decides Lockdown. It does not, however, propose a reduction in working time, but instead proposes a dozen and twelve hours, while at the same time ensuring taxation in the large groups, less than 5% of tax revenues and at the same time leaving a large part of the unemployed uncovered. That's right. People's needs, like today with the new economic crisis and pandemic, came into being in the conglomerates of bloody surpluses and in 2018. In fact, if you look at the Minutes of that period, we considered that your development is anemic, uncertain, temporary, which would prepare the conditions for a stronger capitalist crisis. We brought, for example, the tourism sector, which then the chains of hotels, that is to say, the large-scale owners, were getting rich, while workers and self-employed in tourism were strangled and are strangled today. We are living it today, because the new economic capitalist crisis, accelerating with the pandemic, has victims not only of what is announced by the hospitals. Because now it is paid again by the workers, while in the air there are thousands of self-employed workers in commerce, focus and elsewhere who are re-engaging. And what has been announced again, the temporary suspensions of payments and the returnable advance payments programmes of micro-enterprises do not cover at least the deadlocks they face. Their income has been dramatically reduced in recent months, the debts have multiplied, thousands are led to the possibility of bankruptcy and lock-up. This is how concentration and concentration are achieved in a more violent way. But today on the subject of the collapse of the public health system, it is the current government and the other political forces that have brought us here, since they have never defended a modern public health system for the people. In the 2018 budget on the expenditure side, what did we have? Reduction in expenditure on insurance, care and social protection by 1.6 billion, a 68% reduction in EEA funding compared with 2017, a reduction in funding in hospitals of 28% by 370 million. That is why the present tragic situation in hospitals is the natural development of your policies. At the time the public health system is being shielded, mass recruitment, private structures, the New Democracy Government continues to denounce and convict the people, and the other parties continue to play political games, such as the proposals for joint acceptance ministers, which, if anything, confirm their common basis for anti-population policy. This is why, moreover, New Democracy and SYRIZA are voting in favour of this draft Balance Sheet 2018. However, the fight for health cannot wait, and this is a matter of workers, health workers, the whole of the people. We welcome today's actions by workers' centres, federations, unions in health centres, hospitals, workplaces and the Ministry of Health. In the difficult days we are experiencing, the means of health protection are projected by scientists and we are applying them. Yes, we are wearing masks, but we will not allow them to become a blemish for the law and what is necessary today: the protection of the health of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The floor will now be taken by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, at the concession of the President of the Greek Solution. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u25	I also thank the President, Mr Athanasios, and the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, for this concession. You know, Mr President, it is often that my colleagues, parliamentary representatives, do not do what you do. That is why thank you very much. This is the sixth time I have taken part in this debate in the House. It is, in one respect, a retro debate. On the other hand, the budget is, of course, a text with predictions, other well-founded, other unfounded and other wishes, while the balance sheet and balance sheet are a mirror of what happened. This debate is more important, in my humble opinion, than the debate on the budget, but has no friends. It is not the pandemic that makes the Chamber today to be like this. This is always the Chamber, when the balance sheet and balance sheet are discussed, that is to say, their adoption. I want to get away from the retro debate and put one or two issues that concern today, the economy today. In the contradiction "what do you want, to protect your health and to protect your health personally, not to die, not to become severely ill, not to let the disease remnant to your health or your office as a freelance or businessman sink or die?" We have a two-sided dilemma, both of which are very negative. That's the contradiction we're living on. What shapes this contradiction with the two lockdowns, in the two closures, in the Greek economy? A debt, ladies and gentlemen, which will be above EUR 340 billion by the end of the year. One of the prisoners. A deficit that will move at the end of the year to 7% to 10%. We had received it from New Democracy 15.1% and the country had sinked. From 7% to 10%, the general government deficit is very worrying and the public debt is alarming and the deficit is alarming. In addition, business profits are dramatically falling. Eight with ten Greek companies, or they will have no profits, or few profits, marginal profits. This is the economic framework that will gradually lead us to 2021, and when with the good of getting out of this loop we will face problems with the economy at this level or even worse. So, given that it has been a year and a half since the elections and typically during the Constitution, every party and every politician must consider what we have in front of us, beyond stereotypes and political cliché analysis. That's all for now. Let's go back a little bit. Let's go to 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not exaggerating when I say to you that since January 2015 we PASOK MPs - then Democratic Compact, today Change Movement - anticipated at that time very accurately, month after month. Did we have any special skills? None. But having lived in a bankruptcy, which we experienced without having experiences from a recent past, with a common currency in the Eurozone, with people from the last experience of bankruptcy in the country in the 1930s, it was not in life, with a little literature on that bankruptcy. We were dealing with as a government - and I personally as Minister in the worst ministries - a new phenomenon which we could not know exactly where we were going to take the country and us personally. When SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks took over in 2015, at the end of January, from what they said and what was happening as a real situation and situation in Europe, we understood where this is going, year after year. Let me make a reference to a key figure relating to the planned growth rate for five years, a five-year growth rate from 2014 to 2018, that is, the year of which we are now considering the balance sheet and balance sheet. What number am I referring to? I am referring to the number associated with the growth rate. In 2014, the budget was reduced to 0.7% or 0.8%. SYRIZA has accepted that. It's beyond doubt. In 2015, the forecasts of the European Union, namely the Commission, and our government, were for growth at 2.9%. And we had a 0.4% recession with the SYRIZA government. 2016 was a projected growth rate of 3.7% and the recession was 0.5%. In 2017, instead of 3.5% growth rate, we had 1.3% growth rate. And in 2018, instead of 3.3% growth rate, we had 1.6%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. On the other hand, we had an increasing amount of time for private individuals to the state and an increasing amount of State debt to the citizens. The latter were EUR 4.5 billion and about EUR 120 billion the first, i.e. citizens' debts to the state. One in two tax registers was a deficit or arrears. On the other hand, the so-called 'cash buffer', this area of money security was the result of a rapid and disastrous taxation of free professionals and businesses. There were taxes and contributions, on the other hand, which had tax characteristics. We also had the increase in public debt, which year after year took us where it was taking us, to reach EUR 340 billion now. Of course we will not vote on this balance sheet and this balance sheet. However, it is not important, ladies and gentlemen, to remember the back. I was looking at my speech just 2018 in the budget. Everything I said I fell in. I had no special skill or economist. I was seeing, as a former Minister, the policies that were being implemented. I saw the situation in the European Union and the International Monetary Fund at the time and the European Central Bank, and the forecasts were safe and easy to make by parties and politicians. Now, from my speech, I want to keep it from anyone who hears me coming in the next few days, months and with the expectation that the vaccines will be accurate and correct - and that will be - very difficult days. When the country - and Europe and the planet - will overcome pandemic, we as a country with specific possibilities will be called upon to deal with the new very difficult conditions - I dare say, harder than the recession and the almost bankruptcy of 2010 - conditions that are being shaped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you too, Mr. Loverdos. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Velopoulos, who has the floor, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to start saying something I saw before I walked into the Chamber. I was reading a 2013 statement by Antonis Samaras on New Democracy and remembered today's but also yesterday's tragic event. The Prime Minister then said: "I today can promise that we will have free Wi-Fi Internet in Greece in a year". It's a 2013 statement. We are in 2020 and we go to 2021 and 2022 and neither Wi-Fi do we see, "fly" the websites of the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, I'm going to say it directly so you can understand it, let's realize it. First time, just justify yourself. The first day you were justified. The second is not forgiven, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You're suffering children, parents, people. You're afflicting people. Find a way not to prove yourself every day incompetent every day. You'll tell me there were technical problems. Okay, technically it's one, technically the other, but at some point find someone to give a solution. Of course, I have this to say, since we are talking about free Wi-Fi that the New Democracy would give us. I had spoken for months with the Minister of Development, Mr Georgiadis, and I had asked him to force the mobile phone companies to download the fees. We are the only country in Europe with the most expensive fees. Mr. Dogboy, because you're tech, and you, grab the companies a little bit. I cannot go to Germany myself and pay a lower mobile telephony fee and an account than I pay for Greece or France that we used to travel to. Now we've forgotten about travel, though we're businessmen. But it's more expensive. Find a way. Is it possible that the Greek may not be able to do so? I don't understand that. On the other hand, you forced our children into tele-education. One has three kids and one goes to primary school, the other goes to high school and the other goes to high school. How can the three kids with a computer at home take a class at the same time? There are some problems. People don't have any money. Can not get three laptops or three computers. It's not very easy, but, in any case, you know, when you make decisions quick, that is, decisions that create more conflicts than solve problems, create problems. I insist on the fact of computers in our children. I have friends who say that their children can't learn not only because they're "flying" the Internet or because they're experiencing any technical problem, but because they don't have computers. A man who takes 400 euros a month to support his family, how will she get a new computer, why - and rightly so for me, too - decided by Mrs Kerameau? Give incentives. Give a subsidisation. Why don't you subsidize, Minister? Ask the Prime Minister to suggest himself and suggest that computers be subsidised to take our children and learn. There's no other way. It's going to be a story. We are also talking about a second lockdown and a third lockdown. If the vaccine comes, we're saved. We'll all be vaccinated now. Of course, PHIZER warned that 90% of the vaccine is fit. I don't know if anyone tells you 90% will work and 10% has side effects if you do. Who's gonna do the vaccine with an indication - suspecting 10% of the side effects? Who dares to go and do it? So since we have new lockdowns, Minister, you find ways and motives for children to have computers at home. Give a subsidisation. Mobile phone companies are subsidising the phones. Give the computers a subsidisation. You compel the parent to have three children or two computers. The parent doesn't oblige. I would, of course, like to say something about what happened in Armenia. I'm doing a parentheses. What proved to be in Armenia, Minister? I will simply say to you that there are no friends, no Americans, no Russians and no Europeans. There are no friends. Neither the International Law, nor the Armenian strong lobby, nor the European Union, nor Russia, nor the United States, were of the value of the power of the drones, the Bayars of the Turks. So there is no international law. There are no friends. There is no Armenian lobby in the United States as long as there are Turkish drones in the hands of the Azerbaijanis. That is the power, that's what proved. That is why I say to the Prime Minister of the country let these strange cooking with the Americans and take any serious boat, because we will not be well equipped for what is coming. So before we slid into painful, but necessary retreats, as many of the New Democracy say, let us be well equipped. Do something. I don't see us well. To see how different state, Mr Levane, it is Turkey, hear a news that all the media are hiding. Turkey today decided to repay the debt of the Somali IMF. You will tell me: 'Why Somalia?' If you ask a MEP in here, he won't even know what the Minister might know - he might know, he's not even obliged. First, President of The Hague Court is Somalos - a symptom! Second, Ankara trains the Somali soldiers. Thirdly, Ankara usually fills us with Somalian illegal immigrants. But the first is a bell for New Democracy not to go to The Hague. Think about it a little seriously. They're not random choices. Turkey makes strategic choices. Now the government is resurrecting. He's been bringing Cece here, he's been dealing with India, as I've said many months ago, looking for other bullets of influence and alliances. Positively all this, Mr. Dog. They deserve praise, they're worth good. That's something. We are late, but we are adopting it properly. As a New Democracy, you are adopting it from us, but the point is to understand the scale of the problem, how a serious policy is being pursued. Turkey, unfortunately for us, has a long-term national strategy. That's the reality. Unfortunately, however, Greece has been attempting a national depopulation for many decades - "national depopulation", the term is important - as is social depopulation. What does "national depopulation" mean? As I go to the dentist and she puts my needle on me, and then she takes my tooth off without hurting, so that's exactly how you've been nationalized. You removed tongue, history, culture. You cultivated anti-militaryism, not you, all parties. You have cultivated Realpolitik, the 'what can we do for war?'. All of this is national segregation. You have not stimulated the mind that very easily the Greek people will accept the karamatism of the Aegean, a little Kastelorizo, now you are saying for a while under Crete AEZ with twelve nautical miles - if you will. All this shows that you are preparing something for the Greek people, something bad, and after Turkey has closed the forehead with Armenia, I am very afraid that the institutions are starting and due to the absence of a president in the United States. I wish I was wrong, but the next quarter will be very important not only for the coronary, but also for the Greek-Turkish. I have been hitting a danger bell to the Greek Prime Minister since now because the power gap in the United States creates other kinds of side effects in Turkish foreign policy. Hold what I'm telling you. Of course I will not say what I think, but I will read a small text in the fastest possible direction of a man who will tell you who is in the end. "Carbon around the world: Dragon Fascist measures, arguments, terminology. Those who apply draconian measures wash their hands by saying 'I carry out orders'. It is forbidden to dialogue, to confuse the opposite view. Documented rival is labelled as conspiracy theory. Dissidents shall be deceived as negative or "deceased by silence". Justice doesn't work. Citizens are tried because they do not comply with anti-constitutional measures. Dragon measures are implemented without documentation. Unthinkable cruelty and analgesia to citizens. The citizen is treated as a terrorist. Propaganda from television and radio. Illustration of citizens with draconian measures with pre-formative time frames that are overthrown without warning. Prohibition of meetings and traffic. The regime fears the civilisation of the people. There is no opposition that disagrees with these measures. The hierarchy of the Church has been tied to the government. Persecution of Christians. Rape in common sense, perversion of concepts, introduction of a new vocabulary. Integration of citizens into the need to take the draconian measures in question. Monitoring of online posts, deletion of the contrary to the regime. Strictly supervised truth by the hoaxes that are its only certified auditors". Another story about this, the Greek-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-an-native hoaxes! I'll be censored by a señor? Because those who have Greek hoaxes are a bandit and a couple of his pals! Who says that? Not me. Professor of Criminal Law, Mr. Bathiotis. Professor of Criminal Law at Democritus University! If I said it, you might even call me "sprayed." Something is wrong with the logic of'sprayed', as you call them in the New Democracy. And when a party and the Prime Minister swear a Greek people, a piece of -2%, 5%, 15%, 30%, 40%? - I'm telling you straight away, you'll be on a run. Mr. Tsipras did it with the rally. Now you guys do it with the coroner. Are you making mistakes, serious mistakes, because very simply for eight months now, the only ERM that the government has strengthened to tell you what it is? It's the S.H.I.E.L.D.'s fault with the citizen. It's your fault! Individual responsibility. It's your fault! The only NSA. You're smiling, ladies! Yeah, the only NSA you supported is your fault, with one finger showing the citizen that it's all his fault. You're all talking about individual responsibility! I would like to ask the following question: the prosecutor has charged against fourteen persons gathered in the Constitution to protest about the lockdown. The law has been implemented and must be applied. And I still disagree with the mask to some extent, I wear it properly. However, similar gatherings have been made in Constantine, similar Pakistani concentrations in illegal immigrants' marches, similar concentrations of others. That's where no one was arrested. Why should you be hunting only for the Greek who disagrees or agrees - it does not matter - and not for others who ideologically disagree with you, but also with your logic? Why? Why such racism against the Greeks? I don't get it. And they'll be tried fast track. On November 11, they are being tried, tomorrow. They will be tried, Minister, fast track! Let's also talk about finances, because Mr. Skulakakis knows a little bit of money. Lockdown costs 170 million a day, i.e. about 5.1 billion euros a month. I ask the government this: Minister, will the Prime Minister tell us where he will find this money? Where will he get the 5 billion euros? If I collect three months Lockdown, I count three months for five billion euros, i.e. EUR 15 billion, plus another month EUR 20 billion. We will take a long time, the Prime Minister tells us, EUR 35 billion, in seven years' time - eight years. That money won't even be enough for the nuts. They're not coming! With the second lockdown, more than EUR 40 billion will be lost not only by the money you have as revenue, but by the lack of money circulation. I'll tell you why. For me, my business, ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you straight away - they are now scrupulous. I'm gonna fire people! I can't take it anymore. It can't be done. I can't keep business, pay tax, VAT, HISPIA. You cannot have the businessman pay everything and say to him: 'Go to the shop owner and talk to him if you pay the rent by 60% or 70%.' And as if to the owner: "Corroid, you acquired a fortune. Now sit down and find them with your tenant." Where is the state to ensure both? Where is a care and a provision of serious concern, Minister? Why don't you, Minister? You're reading your papers. I'm telling you something about tenants, who are businessmen and renters. They may be businessmen - incomes, having a shop man get a monthly. If you deprive him of that, what will he do? Tell me, where's the welfare? Where's the care? You tell me. You've made tragic mistakes, Minister, most tragic! Now you're fixing it. You closed the bookshops. Depression, people will go! Today I hear you're fixing it. I mean, you're deciding the lockdown. The man in his house will sit down and read a book. He'll read something! The kid's gonna go get a book! You closed the bookshops! On the other hand, you let the supermarket multinationals sell shoes and everything there is. Why? And today, seeing the crime you've committed, you're going to change it. All right, all right, all It's not too late, it's all you're doing late. It's getting late, ladies and gentlemen. Why is everything slow? Didn't you think about it before? I told you and the previous lockdown here, in the House, not to make the mistake and let the supermarkets sell a lot of goods. Let's just sell food. Why would they sell shoes and slippers? Why would they sell clothes and shirts? Why? The multinationals are better friends than the other Greek businessmen? Oh, no, it's not like that! I will not say any more about the benefits, because time is pressing too. But I will tell you this: I have something to report about the media. I am ashamed that these mass media are continuing the same violin. In all news releases, SYRIZA, KKE, Mer25, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution is missing. Everything, but everything! Once and for all, a statement by SYRIZA - sometimes Mr Tsipras - passes from that point on to chaos! I'm really embarrassed! Listen to the looting, the poaching that they do, Minister. They are misleadingly focused on the average age in relation to cases and not on deaths. They do not say, "Die from an eight-year-old coronary, but say about the cases "average ages forty-five to fifty-five". Okay, and my daughter is twenty-one, twenty-two. If he sticks a coronary, the average drops. I mean, look at what fraud they do, just to terrorize the world! It saves and well to terrorize us! Also - I will tell you directly - the government must understand that you can save the economy, as Mr Loverdos said earlier - because you did not save it, but we say now - to save the lives of the people from the coronary - if you saved it, I have reservations why many scientific data are changing - but you will not save it from hunger, because the Greeks will die from hunger in the next few months. The Greeks won't have any money. Understood. That's the crime that's going on. Also, in all European countries, as I am learning, Minister, we have a suspension of auctions. At least seven, eight countries, as I read yesterday in 'DAILY TELEGRAPH'. Why in Greece were you not suspending auctions, all the auctions? Funds, which have filed loan complaints, continue to annoy the world and auction. Look into it, my Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u28	Please conclude, Mr President. You've spoken more than twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u29	Yes, Mr. President. I shall also make a simple suggestion: you have forbidden - my Minister, look at the Greek citizen for three months at a time and now for a month. I understand that. Therefore, remove the four months from the traffic charges. What's simpler, guys? You deprive him of the right to be released. I understand that. It's a measure not to disperse the coronary. What would I do if I was Prime Minister? For four months when you're not around, man, I'm gonna remove your traffic charges. I'm telling you the simple things. It doesn't take a lot of brains to realize that things can happen much easier than some minds in their offices. But you have nothing to do with the economy. I'll tell you directly: You're related to the economy in theory. This is the problem of the country's civil servants. The businessman who has a shop or business knows what economy means. Mr. Skolakis, I imagine he doesn't have any business. You're an economist, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u30	I guess. I don't know. Oh, you've got business and you're doing it like this? Well, then you have a problem. If you have businesses and you make them distorted, we have a problem. Honestly. So you're renting your business in a shop and letting the owner run the test between the tenant and the owner without State interference and with care of the state, and you say 'I have business'? Well, then you're doing something wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u31	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u32	Yes, Mr. President. I'd like to say one last thing quickly. Stop the parties... And I don't understand how the New Democracy has become communists. That's how happy, guys, Biden won. I wasn't expecting her. So happy? The Russians made "aman" distraction from the socialists or, what they say, the communists, and you're glad Biden got out, who uses the exact same thing. It's amazing what's going on. But I'm telling you this: Watch what you're saying because the Advocate General, Barr, ordered this morning for recount and fraud. Don't let the rabbit come out again, Erdogan's friend, Trump, and we're running, and we don't get all night to congratulate you. Note why - I will tell you straight away - it is no coincidence that the election in two days has just taken place the coronary vaccine from PFIZER. These aren't random things. But you know - and that's what we're talking about many times and I'll say it again - something? You're pleased about Biden, but you're forgetting something key: Serbia, the hostile Serbia, broke Biden and his company with the Germans. The Arab Spring and ISIS made it by Biden and his company with Clinton. Who destroyed Libya and Syria? Biden's party. Well, don't be delusional. Don't have a babydenulous all of you. Other "baidenopoulos", other Velopoulos and other Greeks. Everyone understands what they want, because their national interests the American will never put it under the Greek. And Biden is an American. We are Greek and we must protect Greece. No one loves Greece more than we do. Understood. So don't invest - I'll say it straight away - in uncovered checks, since at earlier time, Biden and his company in the Balkans and the Mediterranean. That's a lesson for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u33	Mr Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are talking today about the balance sheet and balance sheet for the financial year 2018. I would like to remind the House, as well as the Greek people, who can hear us from their homes, that in 2018 the Greek State was, of course, again, as it has been for eleven consecutive years, obliged, on the basis of the commitments made by the then government of SYRIZA to Eurogroup, which took place on 15 June 2017, to achieve a surplus primary financial result of 3.5% of our National Gross Product. To remind you, in fact, of the history and why we think it has a semantic interest in Mera25 what exactly the Eurogroup communication of 15 June 2017 says. Introductory terms: "The Eurogroup welcomes Greece's commitment to maintain a primary surplus of 3.5% of GDP by 2022 and a budgetary path according to the European financial framework thereafter, according to the European Commission's analysis. Such compliance will be achieved" - says the 2017 Eurogroup - "with a primary surplus equal to or greater than 2% of our National Gross Product in the period" - listen to this, ladies and gentlemen - "2023 to 2060", i.e. almost forty years or more than forty years. SYRIZA, of course, must tell about the story that this little kitten didn't start. On the contrary, it continued from where the previous speakers left it, namely you, the Memorandum of Governors, from the notorious 'e-mail Hardouveli', which reminded me that no Eurogroup and no Commission had been accepted under any circumstances. They said, "What are these? Are you crazy that you want so favourable terms?' These very favourable conditions that were introduced at the time, as a government, wanted primary surpluses of 4.5%, I recall, until 2060. No, I'm sorry, that's wrong! SYRIZA threw them at 3.5% and kept them for forty years. So here you two memorialists, supposedly, pretend to be glad that you are fighting for how much better each of you negotiated the terms of our debt-government. We, again, in Mera25, take fire, accept the accusation - and it is strange - on both sides that we have suffered psychosis with the debt and the primary surpluses imposed on us by the lenders as a method of debt repayment. Let me remind the Greek people, of course, that it is a method that has not stopped - it will be chasing us until we die, it has just been temporarily put into ice because of pandemic. We have no psychosis, ladies and gentlemen, at Merra25 at all. We simply knew where such monstrous primary surpluses lead for forty years. From the outset we say that this method is socially destructive, that it turns our country into a debt-harassment. From the outset we have stressed that with these policies, which the Greek people know very well in their faces, the extreme austerity to bring together the sacrifice of our private sector towards an unsustainable debt at all costs. From the outset we have told all of you that this is how our economy is being destroyed, the recession is being permanently recycled and recycled, our young people are migrating, the public health, education and welfare system is falling apart. We have noted since then that by definition every surplus of our public sector means an automatic private sector deficit, it means poverty in our world. The height of the primary surplus for 2018 was finally - the miracle! - in 4.4% of GDP, i.e. 8 billion euros, much more than 3.5% of GDP, which was the commitment of the SYRIZA and the New Democracy Memorandum. From this amount it was directed at paying our unsustainable and public debt, that is, it was literally burned, it was thrown into the trash, it was not even recycled by a fraction of it in our Greek economy, 3.5%. So he went directly to serve our debt, our debt that has no bottom, that never ends. The remaining 0.9% achieved by the SYRIZA government was shared by the so-called'social dividend'. Here, for the record, we need to clear up a fraud done by SYRIZA, our former comrades, to all citizens, because in the wild way that overcompensated them this year, she finally got 4.4% of the total production, but returning to society only a fraction of this surplus. In particular, while the surplus of 2018 was 0.9%, that is, above what the institutions and the troika asked us to do - that is, 0.9%, 1.65 billion, for people to understand it - SYRIZA has only shared as a social dividend of 800 million, that is, under half. The rest were planted, supposedly, for the most famous pillow. And you, dear friends and former partners of SYRIZA, are calling this a "social redistributive policy". Yes, it was really a redistributive policy. But it was redistributive not toward our citizens, but to our lenders. And, of course, we come to today, where we are in the midst of a wild pandemic, which now kills forty people a day in our country, where the government imposed a second quarantine on what grounds? That the limits of the health system won't last. Let us consider, then, that only a year of memorial waste budgetaryly, in 2018, the state overcompensated the citizens and bleeding out 8 billion of them, of which 6.5 billion offered them as a sacrifice on the altar that never ends, of our unsustainable debt. So let us think about what we would have achieved in education, welfare, public transport. And attention, we're only talking about a year! We will therefore vote against both the balance sheet and the balance sheet, and we will vote against it, Mr President, but let me add a few things, since we have reached the pandemic. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, what about the quarantine? I came down from New Heraklion today. Kifissia Avenue was still alive, like a quarantine before. In other words, there were hundreds of measures of immobilized cars. Do you know why this is happening? They're not crazy citizens, they're not anti-social, they don't want to kill themselves. It's because their bosses don't have them working with teleworking and they hadn't made sure this was possible for the vast majority of their bosses. Mr President, last February we supported all the government's measures to protect citizens. At the same time, however, we warned her to use that two-month period to prepare for the unreturnable exit from our first quarantine through three basic measures, which we have indicated since. We have indicated to you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, firstly the immediate establishment of a public mass test system to control all Greeks, the free control of all our populations, as was done in Germany, China - not to say that it is impossible - in South Korea and now it is done in Slovakia. Secondly, we asked you for immediate, immediate - yesterday, we said at the time - seven thousand doctors and health care, not for a year, not "suicide" and then "we will throw you as a set-up lemon bucket", but forever, permanently. And thirdly, we asked you for the immediate requisition - if it is not war, tell me when it is war -, as you were entitled to do, of all the IITs that are needed by private structures, from private clinics and their integration into the ERC, of course without paying scandalous compensation to the clinical authorities. We've already failed all three or rather, I'm sorry, you haven't failed. You didn't fail because you decided not to attempt all three. You had other priorities. You know exactly what I mean: canalarchs, parasitic oligarchs, clinical rulers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u35	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u36	I shall finish right away, Mr President. After that, Mr President, and I shall end with this phrase, we shall henceforth withdraw all our support for the government management of this pandemic. Your Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, know that it is now acting against public health and not in its favour. Your Government is now committed to undermining our public health and not - in no case - a guarantor of its protection. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Eukleidis Tsakalotos, has the floor now. Immediately afterwards we will give the floor to two speakers, Mr Charalampos Papadimitriou and Mr Ioannis Giolas, and then to the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you for clarifying that I have come to the right plenary today. It was also a relief that I didn't go to the wrong room. I want you, Mr Pylakakis, Minister, to confirm that today Mr Stagioras is changing predictions and now base line is for 10% recession and 5% growth in 2021. And I want you to listen to the criticism I have made over the past few months, that it was not right for your practice of saying the base scenario and you had another scenario a little worse. You should have a base scenario that was a little more pessimistic, so you don't have to constantly change and have a little more optimistic and another more pessimistic. That would be a good practice. Before I go to your speech in committee, I think that Mrs Papanatzi's reply was very well to the rapporteur on expenditure. In an eight-minute speech against what Mr. Tsipras says in a way of attack, which should really be outdated, he reiterated what Mr. Mitsotakis said in 2019 for state waste. It makes me a terrible impression that you're saying that again. So, what were the wastes? Mrs Papanatsiou responded very specifically. I would also like the opinion of the parliamentary representative. Was it wasted on the kids at school? Was the rental subsidy wasted in a country that never had a housing policy? Were the CRL wasted? And he told you a whole lot of other examples. In fact, he told you that the electronic form was broken, you broke your own client system, which until the 2009 crisis with great love, you cared for it along with PASOK. Mr. Dogfish, you said in your speech about the GDP review. This creates problems because we need to review and how much debt is as a percentage of GDP and so on. You said that the main lesson we learn from this is that we need to see over-taxation in our country as the main conclusion of this thing. The first is that the government of SYRIZA and now we say that overtax is one thing, but the distribution of taxation, who pays, is the biggest problem in Greece. And that should have been your emphasis. But it seems to me that despite COVID -19 and how important the public health system is you really cannot deal with this crisis. Your instincts are, to a lesser extent, fewer taxes, and let us not have a health system, let us not have good schools, let us have large classes, let us have a public transport problem. We had Mr Petsa who was just saying in September 'What we need the ICM positions'. Do you realize that the whole world is talking about state structures support and at the level that you care about your other hat? Not for the budget, but for the Recovery Fund? The whole world says they need spending. You are pleased to see that most economists and politicians even from your own space say that in the coming years we will have a large debt as a percentage of GDP. At the same time, however, precisely because we are still at low interest rates, so we will have growth greater than the interest rate, we will also be able to have deficits for some years so that we can correct our economies in the public sector as well as in growth. In other words, we have a window of opportunity that tells us: because of this interest-rate and growth relationship, it will not be financial adjustment immediately. It doesn't have to be done right away. You will have seen too many such articles from economists and conservative viewpoint. So you have an opportunity that you won't use, because you really don't believe in the public sector. And for the pandemic you don't believe in the public sector. And for health you don't believe in the public sector and you've proved it and every time your words betray you. I get to my last point. Your words are betraying you. Isn't it a little graceless to write in your texts and say anything else? I am referring to your speech on credibility and how we will be borrowed at low interest rates and how reliable we are and how we build this credibility and get into the QR. But that's not what your texts say. Your texts, if we start from the 2019 budget, recognize what should have been the beginning of the public debate. The principle of public debate would be what you write in the preliminary draft budget of 2019, in the budget of 2019 and in the texts you send to the institutions that one of the reasons you borrow at a low interest rate is that you have the pillow, which you said was the biggest gave in the transformation into economic policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance for a minute, Mr President, is my last point. The debt is set for ten, fifteen years. Basically, the debt for the two, three years is almost insured and for ten, fifteen years the flows they need are less than Spain, Italy, Portugal. Why can't you recognize this and you just write it? So much is your economic policy a matter of advertising and not substance? I think you are also wrong about yourself, because when things are getting worse in the economy, and people will see the results of your economic policy and the lack of confidence in the public sector and the lack of active measures, then they will understand that what you say was always with an eye on the newspapers that they love you and support you rather than really support the economy in general, but those people who need your help and those people who could contribute to a different economy. I am afraid that all the opportunities you have and the 'cushion' and the low interest rates and the Recovery Fund will be exploited to turn to an economy that has brought us into this crisis and not to an economy that is different, more sustainable and more socially fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly for two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u40	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would not speak now, I have prepared a few words to say on this bill, but on the occasion of what Mr Tsakalotos said, I deserve to make one, two comments. The first comment concerns the usefulness of the 'cushion' and debt regulation. Indeed, it is useful, but the question that is asked is: Starts of 2019, when SYRIZA government came out last time to borrow, we also had a "cushion" and debt regulation and its borrowing rate were close to 4%, before the pandemic became, because then you can say that QE came and we will discuss it, the interest rate fell to 1%. What's going on? Haven't you considered what he's been through? There was a change in economic policy. Neither the 'cushion' nor the regulation of debt can be effective in relation to the markets if it is the policy pursued by SYRIZA. And the policy pursued by SYRIZA was revealed by the statistical service when we discovered a few weeks ago that, at the end of 2018, we finally had GDP about the same, 2 billion as in 2014. This is the greatest failure of economic policy, to have a four-year-old resilient throughout Europe, and to stay the same, at the very depth that we have been there since the crisis in the memorandums. Now in relation to the health system, every time you judge - and you have this tendency - what happens to a system based on how much money one puts. We put in extra money, but that's not just what ensures an effective health system. When we came and received, the hospitals didn’t even count how many people get in and how many people come out, hence they didn’t know how many immigrants get health care, which we sat on and measured. There wasn't a patient's computer file yet. There are no protocols to monitor diseases. It is of great importance in a system not only how much money we put, but how effective this system works. And that's the real criterion. If you want my personal opinion, there can be no public health system in any country in the world. It is a central issue because the health market fails for various reasons. The key isn't just how much money you spend. The key is how you spend them. In Civil Protection, if you have a fax as a basic mobilisation system, what does it matter how much money you spend and how many do you appoint? You're gonna fail again. As in 2017 in Mandra. So we need to improve the real functioning of the state and not to squash how much money is spent. There is too much money spent on the Greek state. This year we will be overrun by COVID - 70 billion in the state budget. Many of these are loaned, and we must very wisely and soundly manage the next phase, so that we can deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u42	And now we're on the list of speakers. Mr. Charalambos Papadimitriou from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes. We're listening, Mr. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope I sound good because there's a little vacation. I want to give an answer, probably two to my dear Mr. Chakaloto. Who pays the largest share is self-evident for a former Finance Minister. The middle and upper class pays it, certainly not the super ich, to use something more widely understood. Who believes in the public sector, Mr former Minister, is extremely clear. It depends, of course, on what we mean in public. The real public or only the state and finally the party. You have received, gentlemen, from the major opposition, the national product at 177 billion at current prices, i.e. what the citizen and the company perceives, but also through which the State collects taxes. At the end of the year for which we are considering the balance sheet and balance sheet, you delivered the national income or shared GDP to 179 billion. You added 2 billion. It took you four years to raise just 1.3%. And you claim to be a high rate of growth, which you are using very often in your daily propaganda. I never hid my surprise about how good students were you in 2018 in a central and substantial promise that you made to our auditors and lenders. Pick up many, too many taxes. You did collect 48 billion and 852 million, almost 50 billion in tax revenue. You don't call it a little. We are talking about the best performance in the ten-year period of memorials and before them. We need to go to 2009 to find the same level of taxes, with a very big difference. In 2009 the current national income was 237,5 billion, that is by 58 billion. Tax with the middle class and at the same time kept the overweight on employees through pension and health contributions. But you so much wanted to show our lenders that you are able to tax heavily on the unscrupulous Greeks, and that from political backwardness, in my opinion. You hoped - and it is true that in this regard, within the introductory 'right' - the institutions would allow you to share a lot of money just before the elections, which you were planning and which you have caused suddenly. This is why, in 2018, it was critical year in your government career. However, because events are “heads”, note what happened in 2019. The business climate improved, the appetite for work came back and new money began to flow into the economy. What's changed? What always in the economy has the last word: confidence and perspective. The market, which is of course made up of many smaller markets, regained the optimism you had taken care of in 2015. The closer to the majority Mitsotakis brought the New Democracy the better for the economic juncture. That's the truth, you like it or not. Finally, 2019 was a better year. The country's current income increased by about 4 billion or 2.1%, with taxes falling to a historical record. Exports were strengthened, new business plans started and unemployment was restricted. We can therefore compare these two periods and see what disastrous to creative governance. So did the capital markets, which are far more stringent than all of us. The yields of Greek bonds prove this, which is one of the best signs on the horizon of a national economy, since it finally determines the cost of money for a national economy. A five-year Greek bond yielded 3.1% in January 2018 and 3.28% in December of the same year. No progress has been made, despite the historical regulation of the public debt that had started in 2014 and was completed in the summer of this year. The 2019 GDP rate has fallen to 2,17%. Between July 2019 and February 2020, however, a rapid reduction is taking place until 0,36%. The pandemic breaks out and immediately goes to 1.54%, that is, it doesn't live there. As soon as the markets appreciated the governments' policies to control the impact of the epidemic, but also the response of the European Central Bank and the European Council, they reversed this increase. The October that just passed us closed to 0.23% and didn't stop there. With the evaluation house "MODY'S" to upgrade the creditworthy of our state just a few days ago, markets estimate that Greece can borrow and pay after five years only 0.089%. So why do we go better now? Why the 2018 manic overtaxation, which, of course, created super surpluses? So why did this happen? Why did the very good words of the European auditors need, but why did they not move the markets? So why would the money available from overtaxation and the last Memorandum of Understanding, the famous pillow that no one should touch, as Mr Tsipras was threateningly warning us, not then - that is, in 2018 - the cost of borrowing? What was the final value of the compulsory creation of available and cash equivalents, as seen in the current assets of the balance sheet that we are considering for 2018, which amounted to just EUR 27.6 billion compared to just EUR 1.7 billion for the financial year 2017? The answer lies in a very simple principle of sound financial management. It is not enough for your policies to satisfy those who lend you or serve the populism that you believe you are giving you votes. Your policies need to bring about production, as it is the reduction of taxes to convince the markets for the principles you respect and follow, to create the conditions for long-term improvement of the basic data of the economy. This is happening today in the middle of a historic dimension of the health, social and economic crisis, and that is why the credibility of the country lies at a high level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too. I would ask Mr Papadimitriou and all the speakers to present their speeches, because there were a few gaps, although not essential. In order to complete their speeches on the Minutes of the House because they were not well heard, I would ask you to table your speeches. Mr. Ioannis Giolias has the floor now from SYRIZA and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas will speak. Mr. Gilla, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I must first give a small reply to the previous colleague, as well as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, about upgrading the house 'MODY', which was indeed the one that was heard. However, the country's fortune continues to be three steps lower than the last of the designated investment grades. Source: the Athenian Macedonian News Agency, which I think you've all consulted. Also, a small answer to the rapporteur for the rich vocabulary of aggressive determinations mainly and contemptuously to contempt for Mr Tsipras and our government. The 'unreliable', 'insured','so', 'other than', Mr. Tsipras and the government were the ones who created the cash buffer, the reserve of EUR 37 billion, ladies and gentlemen, with which the country has managed to survive at this difficult juncture. I will now go on reporting on some of the accounts and the balance sheet of the financial year in question in 2018. The Gross National Product, as corrected by the previous ones, actually reached the figure - so at least it is the estimated amount by ELSTAT - of 180,218 billion. We were corrected by Mr Skokakis during the debate on the committees. However, looking at ELSTAT's figures, in fact, published on 16 October, income, GDP of 2018 is estimated to be estimated at the amount mentioned. But Mr. Skolakis said half the truth. He said that the revenue for 2017 was 177,152 billion. That's definitive. Therefore, again in 2018, we had exceeded EUR 2,575 billion over the previous year. Subsequently, it is worth noting that the payments of the Public Investment Programme for that year have been satisfactorily implemented. The budget was 6,750 billion and the execution of 6,237 billion. However, the implementation of the overall programme of payments for financing projects from national funds has clearly increased by 163%, since from 1 billion budget to 2.66 billion. Clearly, the sum earmarked for social aid has also increased from 1,688 billion to 2,21 billion. This excess is no coincidence that it was spent on income support and other social protection measures chosen by our government as a measure of relief for the poor and small and medium-sized populaces. It should be noted that, for the third consecutive year at the time, the expenditure of 768 million was spent on granting the minimum social dividend which had not been spent on it, but was adopted and introduced as an absolute and necessary measure to mitigate the humanitarian crisis. It should also be stressed that the repayment of unpaid debts to the State amounting to 1,3 billion, mainly to a social security fund, in order to cover debts and outstanding claims for pensions amounting to 1 billion. In the end, therefore, the amount of pension benefits and the number of outstanding pension benefits have also been reduced, so that your number and outstanding pensions can be used for more than three hundred thousand. On the occasion, on the issue of normalisation and the way in which the debt was restructured, I have to say again that in 2018 the loan margin for debt rescheduled for 2012 has been fully abolished, the possibility of using the profits from the Greek AnFAs and SMPs bonds, clearly, to further normalise the AFSF loans and, finally, to defer interest payments by 10 more years. The above conditions have contributed to the relief and settlement of public debt in such a way as to make it as sustainable as possible, since it can now be served over time without excessive instalments. Under the well-known unfavourable conditions of the crisis, we have handed over, ladies and gentlemen, a debt that is managed, the recovery economy for nine consecutive quarters and with relatively high growth rate - 1.6% said the Minister, 1.8% I imagine it is the final one - which was left in relation to the corresponding percentage of the countries of the euro area. However, let me make this last point about the simplification and inappropriate comparison, which is usually included in your public speech and arguments. Greece since 2010 has experienced a terrible economic recession and a crisis, for nine years continuously borrowed and constantly dying to cover surpluses, contrary to the regularity that the other European countries, at least in their economic lives, have experienced. From this inappropriate and inconsistent comparison that you are constantly trying to sum up things and truth, the winners are the populism and demagogy that you possess, but the logic, seriousness and credibility of your arguments and your policy and your choices are lost. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr. Doglakas, a while ago Mr. Stakoras made a statement that the recession will reach 10% - say hi to him - and that growth in 2021 will reach 5%. There is also in the Minutes of the House a month and a half ago that the Greek Solution in all the Committees of Finance spoke by mouth, Mr. Villardou, about 10% recession and Mr. Stagioras told us that we would be exposed. Statement by the Minister of Finance a little while ago: 10% recession and 5% growth for 2021! You'll tell me, "But is that a reason to celebrate? I wish there was no recession, there was no coronary." Let go of that. But when you approach things with a logic, you must speak truths in the world. He came to our talk. Also, Mr. Dollacakis, in terms of this 40% with the rents you are cutting, with foreign collars you make a funeral. Cut. We didn't say you didn't cut out of the world, from the cosmic who rents a gym, a business, a restaurant, and it's empty, it doesn't work, because you shut it down. But now you've got a pimp to pay, in other words damage, the one who rents the building. That's not happening in North Korea either. Since you have such a social and social policy, you pay the state. That's how Italy does. Italy, too, is cutting the rent, Mr. Comrade, but the state is paying for it. It's not a foreign funeral. He doesn't do social policy with private money. To figure out exactly what's going on. Let's go further now, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen. Since we're talking about the coronary, do you know why, Mr. Parliamentarians of the New Democracy, you don't have as much success this time as the first time? Because neither God nor the world wants the wrong. No one wants it wrong. And as long as there are inequalities, people go crazy, shining their eye, Mr. Parliamentary of the New Democracy. You do not convince the world that you have equal distances to follow you and be consistent with what you and the scientific community are protecting him from. And we have said many times that you are applying an unprecedented racism against Greek taxpayers. That's never happened before. It cannot be said, for example, that the new Republic and the Government, within the measures you are taking - we will not now look at whether they are good or bad - will close the churches - which you are doing well - at the same time as we are the only country in Europe - a Europe that we call on Macroon and we will follow and close the mosques and a little mitigating Islamicism and fanatics - which opens the mosques and tell them, 'welcome!'! So it is not possible, at the same time in the mosque, for Muslims to come out of selfies, for them to pray in the Botanic without masks and circulate to the media. They can't be without masks and we can't be masked and we can't talk. There is no way, Mr Levane, in the Park of the Nations of Thessaloniki which I was there yesterday, fifty, sixty illegal immigrants laughing at the policemen who want to squash them and tell them "go away from here". And they laugh! And it's no masks! And there are cigarettes, drugs. This picture is every day. But I'm home. Greek and Greek are closed homes and they send sms to get out. It is not possible in Crete, which is being tested again for bad weather today, and in Heraklion for the cruise ship yesterday and for the tourists to be out for a walk without masks. Did you see the picture? Walk the cruise ship to Crete, without masks, nothing. It is not possible at the court of appeal a few days ago, gentlemen of the left mainly, but you, too, went to steal the issue, to have twenty-five thousand people, but at the same time to be locked up in our home. It is not the prosecutor, as the President of the Greek Solution said a while ago, on the 11th day of the month to set trial for those who were in the Constitution and protested, but at the same time Pakistani and Constantine have not even received a warning about the protest they made the day before they were outside the House without any masks, without anything. And to say something about SYRIZA now. Are you in favour of stinging or not? Tell us. Either we're coordinates and we say we're going to convince the Greeks to sit in their houses or snitch. If you're in favor of racketing, you tell us, you know, and people know what line it's going to take. And let me ask you something. I don't think you're preparing any demonstrations on November 17th. I do not believe that you are preparing any course, any demonstration, when the country is in quarantine, when the Greeks commit suicide from hunger, sees his shop closed, he's gone mad, he's started the psychopharmaceuticals in his house, which the government is obligating him and you are preparing a demonstration. I don't think so, because I heard some voices. Because if they go and whoever they go, you'll have to be arrested. If there is a state and if there is a Citizen's Department, if something happens next week on November 17th, the prosecutor will have to intervene. Because the reason can be right that you would like to protest for. But the way it's going to be wrong. We cannot in a society that is incarcerated at home, protesting about an idea, great, serious, right, indeed. And again, the reason is right, the way will be wrong. That's what you did at the courtroom. Do not prepare to do the same for November 17th or December 6th. We've got Gregoropoulos, too. Prepare for a dense presence in the streets. Be careful not to cause the popular feeling, the Greeks and the Greeks. Because if that reason is right to find yourself in a demonstration, we will inform you of the following: There's no more serious reason for survival than people's work. So work, life and survival are more important than any idea. So since the Greeks are closed home, review and make no mistake and go out on the streets tomorrow. Mr. Minister, Mr. Dollacakis, yesterday at our offices, we received a lot of phone calls from the prisons. They're people who are inside for economic affairs. This is very serious. It's for 12,000 euros each in prison, man was crying. A coronary has become a mess within prisons. We're talking about sixty cases in the Thessaloniki Prison. We were also called yesterday, Minister, and I want you to see - Mr President, this is very important - the people involved in catering. Watch out, they don't have a CAR. But since they have large businesses, they pay very large rents and power. And they don't have a syndicate - just to say it - people and they're trapped. Take a look at the case of catering. Also to say about the reflexes of the dead that the government has on some things. Why legislate, do something, see that it's not going well and you change it again. It is not possible for the second largest city in Greece, Thessaloniki, not to have an airport until this morning, to have no interest in the government, Mr Levane. And in front of me that the President of Greek Solutions take Mr. Hardalis, wake him up, and honor him, he did so immediately. Not all of Greece can have airports and not have Thessaloniki! Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u48	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u49	So one of the many MPs in Thessaloniki, Macedonia, wasn't interested in self-evident? That is why we say that when there is logic in politics, everything is done. And I close with one final comment and thank you, Mr President, for your kindness today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u50	You've gotten over it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u51	I shall end in thirty seconds, Mr President, you have my word. You should oppose SYRIZA with substance. All right, Webex's down. And here he has problems, etc. They give you so many rights to make strong opposition and you can't even score on an empty spot you can't put. All right, he dropped the system in thirty countries, fell here too. Is that where you're oppositioning? Do else, in that the Greek cannot respond and have three, four computers - that, yes! - that the government and the Ministry of Education have inactively acted on computers for pupils. That, yes, I'll listen to you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. MPs and MPs, Minister, the 2018 balance sheet and balance sheet are not a celebration balance sheet. It's an apology balance, it's an apology balance, and it should be a path-change balance. Unfortunately, however, it is the original, the uterus on which the budgets of 2019, 2020 and now 2021 have been based. It's the greatest proof of SYRIZA and New Democracy government continuity. In 2018, I would remind you that we are in the eighth year of the memorandum, we are in the fourth memorandum, in the occult memorandum, as we are committed to keeping all previous memoranda, with new obligations, and by 2060 any change of polarity in a memorial policy of the past, each of the previous three will be considered as a unilateral energy against the lenders' agreement, yet we continue to say that it is not a memorandum. The 2018 balance sheet records this 12% reduction between 2017-2018 of health expenditure, the reductions in teachers’ wages in primary and secondary education. The health crisis with its effects on health and education is unfortunately based, has its roots and there, in the 2018 balance sheet. What we must not forget is that we may now have a teleconferencing conference here in the House and be able to participate to ensure that there is no saturation in the Chamber from my office, but at the same time televised has collapsed. Some schools are involved, but many students are unable to enter. Of course, we're talking about students who would have access to telematics, who have computers at home. A lot of students in western Athens who are built on this sanitary bomb once said by the Prime Minister, HYTA Violence - who had said that he should obviously be shut down after he called it a 'bomb' sanitary and we see today perpetuating this government - do not have computers in many other parts of Greece. I would like to refer to another fact, and I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary-General. It's about the returnable deposit that's not in the field of central controversy. I put this to you in order to solve a problem which at the moment threatens businesses from the very least that you are offering them, threatens the exclusion of businesses. Every ten months, companies are obliged to declare their turnover and demonstrate the decline in turnover. But the system is so handy that if a wrong statement is made, there is no method, no way of correcting it, and these companies are excluded from any return for the entire time that this programme continues. That's a shocking thing. It does not apply to any other way of communicating companies, citizens, natural persons with tax services and it is clear that it needs to be directly corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. American scholar George Santayana says whoever forgets the past is doomed to relive it. And this is a key useful use of the account beyond its constitutional obligation to configure a roadmap on how to proceed from now on by avoiding the mistakes of the past. Instead, New Democracy and SYRIZA, on the occasion of the account we are discussing, arefoulkun for who of the two applied with greater efficiency the very same recipe that leads us to the crisis. They are talking about the "cushion", as if that were their own, as if this "cushion" was not made by the increase in public debt in 2018, or it is not exactly the same with continuing bond issues. Of course, the investors are now turning to the bond markets because of the uncertainty that prevails and are actually paying us to lend them, with the good performance of Greek bonds being due mainly to the increase in the size of the European Central Bank's PEP programme, but also to the extension of its time. Let us remember that, in SYRIZA, the bill did not go either to the big taxmen or to the smugglers nor even to the owners and owners. It went almost exclusively to small and medium-sized households with overtaxation and an increase in indirect taxation, which is known to affect the weakest and has led to the historical low proportion of indirect taxes, 1.15 at the end of 2014, at 1.39 in 2018, as reflected in page 8 of the Court of Auditors report. In other words, the "cushion", in simple terms, built it with the VAT and taxes they paid at the supermarket and the gasoline they put in the IX by Greek households, with the cigarettes they buy. And, of course, then, the government considered it appropriate, as the rapporteur for Officerial Representation said, to give them part of what they received with the Social Dividend. But they don't only look like this New Democracy and SYRIZA. Both selected starting from 2018, the other after 2019 the tax relief for legal persons and primarily the shareholder tax. Of course, the New Democracy has proceeded with the above and established the preferential tax treatment for corporate bonuses in share form and stock options. And of course, small and medium-sized enterprises and less privileged ones continue to pay, without having the right not only to co-formulate but not even to know. New Democracy and SYRIZA were talking about medium-sized reductions in HISBIA in small and medium-sized assets. We expect the harmonisation of objective and commercial values that will redefine the ENPI and the integration of three and a half thousand regions in order to find out, because the SYRIZA people have voted for it, and the New Democracy will implement it. SYRIZA's rapporteur also spoke about the success of its government with the possibility of obtaining profits from ANFAs and SNPs by 2018. In 2020, last May, the current government paid off - in in introductory terms - this success with the end of the suspension of auctions and the protection of first residence in the memorandum evaluation carried out last May. On SYRIZA, the cost of payroll increased by EUR 2 billion. The same way is being followed by the current government with the increase in the army of posters. SYRIZA celebrates the subsidisation of housing in 2018, which is repeated by the current government with another version in the New Banking Code. Ladies and gentlemen, today as long as a national plan of high democratic legitimacy has ever been prioritised. This means that the management of the reserve and all other resources now available to the Government from the new ESDP, the new CFP, but also the unprecedented liquidity provided by the European Central Bank, must be made available directly and targeted to enable the country to come out of the private and public debt shelves it has. Of course, the delay in the negotiations at European level leads to the realistic goal of absorbing EUR 3 billion in 2021, instead of the EUR 5.5 billion provided for in the preliminary draft budget of the Government, which we do not forget that twenty days before the provision of EUR 2021 zero for a repayable advance - already announced a EUR 1.7 billion for the Ministry of Finance -, zero for the prolongation of unemployment benefits, no euro for long-term unemployed, no euro for the compensation of seasonal workers, no euro for the compensation of farmers. For example, the figures mentioned above are the insight into or credibility of the financial staff, as we speak of the budget, balance sheet and balance sheet, unless they really believe in the government that everything will flow smoothly as magically. However, we will certainly not see the impossible target of 7.5% in the budget that will come to Parliament in a few days' time. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 report shows exactly that public and private debt has not stopped rising either at the end of the memorandum or in the memorial era. In fact, the fact that the GDP figures have been revised about EUR 4 billion, shows that we are far deeper in the 2018 dawn than the stock records, which is not up-to-date and of course no longer due to COVID - 19 we are sinking even deeper. If the country cannot achieve a high growth rate, it is assumed that it will be condemned to long-term stagnation at best. But the New Democracy has not learned from SYRIZA's colossal mistakes. It keeps the resources for a few and select ones. In its own development model few are the protagonists who will push growth. The many who have been affected will be relieved of their debts, since of course they are also relieved of their assets, even though the available liquidity could save several of them. However, a project that does not concern and does not involve the many is doomed to fail. And we warn the government once again to change the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too, Mr. Catarini. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Spilios Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. The debate and ratification of the budget and balance sheet is a very important parliamentary procedure, which should also have a pedagogical value for the parties that have been ruling, so that the mistakes of the previous ones are not repeated. It is a process that enables us to assess the effectiveness, reliability and ultimately the consistency of the respective government's words and actions. I hope our government does not make the mistakes of its predecessors, as we see in SYRIZA's current account. I did not want to go into this debate - I had thought of speaking entirely differently - but Mr Chakalotos has caused us, so I have to answer him, despite the fact that his left-wing philosophy of dialogue is always leaving the Chamber and not listening to the answers. So does Mr. Tsipras. Rather it does not make you very good not to hear the criticism or ask questions about which you do not want to hear the answers. Nevertheless, our urban courtesy requires us to respond. The period of sadness of Mr Tsakalotos and the "first time left" has been fully identified in the Greek people's consciousness with specific things: the closure of banks, the removal of deposits, the over-taxation of the entire Greek people and, above all, the middle class -101 billion Greeks' debts in 2018, which we are discussing today, the half Greek people owed - the unbearable increase in insurance contributions, the bleeding of this multitude of middle class in the hands of Tsipras and Tsakalotou and ultimately the class treatment as an enemy of this famous middle class, its allergy to investment and all forms of entrepreneurship. That was Tsipra's course. That was SYRIZA's course. This is reflected in today's report. He asked what was Mr. Tsipras' waste. In the account we are debating today, it is clear what was waste, but above all what were the discrepancies between what you yourself, Mr SYRIZA, were saying in your budget. So we have a 2% budget gap - namely 1,9% - and an 8,6% cost-accounting discrepancy. That was the waste, and it would be nice if Mr. Tsakalotus were here to tell us why he did it. He also accused us - in his speech on this he stood - that we do not believe in the state, we do not believe in the public. The Minister replied to him a moment ago, but let me also say what I think about this. I've told him here before, but I don't think he's listening and he can't change his logic, he can't change his ideological commitment, and that's why the limits to his echoing are too narrow and that's what is seen in polls. We in the New Democracy believe precisely in the right policy mix, in the right private and public sector mix. We do not want the state - businessman and we have said so at all levels. But we want the state strong for social policy, social justice, modern education and, of course, strong, powerful health system. We are even reforming the public sector in this crisis, so that the market can breathe, create and produce the small and medium-sized enterprises, stand up to this middle-class that you have devastated. You, entangled in your ideologies and ideologies, behave anachronisticly against the state itself, the economy itself and ultimately at the expense of the Greek people and above all our weakest fellow citizens. Mr Velopoulos said that the only RS we did was 'you'. In other words, he said the responsibility of the poor Greeks in the New Democracy. It's absolutely wrong what the Chief of Greek Solution said. Firstly, the political responsibility of the state has been assumed from the first moment by the Prime Minister in the first phase of the pandemic, who continues in every speech to say that the first political responsibility is his own Prime Minister. But, yes, we're talking about individual responsibility. I also wrote an article explaining exactly what individual responsibility is and we are talking for two reasons. Firstly, because individual responsibility is the key feature of the rule of law in modern democracies, and secondly, because without individual responsibility, the spread of the virus cannot be controlled in liberal democracies, such as ours. If he has another proposal, let Mr Velopoulos tell us. He also accused us of national debilitating and warned us that it was dangerous in time until the Baiden oath. Once again I will say from this step forward that we need to be more careful when we talk about these issues. National and patriotic is precisely the foreign policy of the Mitsotakis Government. This multi-dimensional policy, with bilateral and multilateral agreements with Israel, Egypt, the Emirates, has essentially brought positive results. We have the active involvement of our allies, the European Union and the United States, and we are constantly trying to deepen our relationship with Russia. We have repeatedly pointed out this difficulty until the time Mr Biden will be sworn out and we are ready and constantly alert, with coolness and confidence, which is built through the successes of our foreign policy and the dynamic presence of our military, islands and locusts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As I do not have time to do so, I will submit to the Minutes and give Mr Velopoulos here exactly all the answers to what the Ministry of Education has done, what Mrs Kerameos herself has done in relation to telematics throughout this period. I'll just say a number. We've been amplified with more than eighty thousand portable devices. It's eighty thousand, telling us we haven't given any of them. There's more numbers I'll give you to see. It is, however, unjust to make such a slandering defamation and attack by both the media and political opponents of the Minister of Education, when you know very well that this is an unprecedented crisis and you know very well that she does what is possible, as does the Ministry's leadership and the entire government, to deal with this crisis. For all kinds of gatherings now. The left puts the concentration of the faithful in the church in its sight. The extreme right puts the gathering in its sights on November 17th. I think everyone needs to stop with populism and tacticalism and come on the path of logic. Any over-concentration of citizens increasing the risk of virus transmission should be limited. Is it so hard to understand? Kids understand it at primary school who put their masks on. Don't you all understand that? The majority of the Greek people are fully aware of this, perhaps with an exception, of the well-known Mr Polakis and Mr Tsipras that covers him, who considers that they are outside every rule, out of every limit. You should tell your parliamentary representative to come and tell us what he thinks of Mr Polakis, his buttocks and his places. In this difficult period - and I close, Mr President - we are dealing with the pandemic of COVID -19, which affects not only our country, but also the whole world - we would expect and want to see a serious opposition, constructive and, above all, realistic proposals. Unfortunately, we don't have it. We'll work. The government will work seriously and responsibly, with a sense of responsibility and social sensitivity. Along with all Greeks and all Greek women we will overcome this crisis. From next year, growth will begin, which will be dynamic. We'll all fight together, and we'll all make it together. In the end, we first and all of you will be judged by the Greek people and history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I would like the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u60	There's no personal issue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u61	He said something that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u62	No, there's been a policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u63	Ten seconds, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u64	Please, Mr. Heta. You've done it another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u65	He won't answer anything. Give me the floor for five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u66	No, you don't have to, because here, there was a placement by your party president for collective responsibility and individual responsibility and he did...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u67	In five seconds, I'd have said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u68	Please, we don't have any staff. If I give you the floor, he'll want to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u69	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u70	Please, Mr. Comrade. What can you say? There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u71	For the record...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u72	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u73	But, Mr President, give me the floor for five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Heta, please very much. You've spoken more than twice a year. Instead of three minutes, you spoke seven minutes. There's no personal matter. Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon from the beautiful Lefkada. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on a global level, we are going through a great trial that has an impact on economic and social life. Since yesterday, however, there is a diffuse optimism that comes from the successful tests of the PFIZER vaccine that make it effective in 90% against the virus. It is a great achievement of medicine, but also of mankind itself. For the first time there is optimism and certainty that the virus will be defeated and life will return to its normal rhythm. However, until the vaccine is released, we have to comply with the measures. This is a matter of personal responsibility for everyone, especially for those who have positions of responsibility and have to be careful about how they conduct themselves and in the messages they emit in society. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the State Balance Sheet for 2018 cannot be conducted without political criticism, because the budget is usually reflected in the objectives and planning of each government. However, the balance sheet shows measurable results. In 2014, for the first time since the crisis, the Greek economy had returned to growth. The European Commission's forecast was to grow 2.1% in 2015 and 3.7% in 2016. But then came the disastrous governance of the first half of 2015 with the punctual memory of proud negotiation that led to an unnecessarily painful and painful memorandum and two years of recession. It is characteristic that from the end of 2014 to 2018, while all the other European countries recorded positive growth rates, in Greece GDP increased by only EUR 2 billion at current prices. This was the result of two years of recession and two more years of anaemic growth. In all the elements of the Court of Auditors' report for 2018, it is recorded that the policy of overcrowding has "flooded" businesses and households and undermined the Greek economy's development prospects. We have had the disparity of indirect and direct taxes on tax revenues with the revenues from indirect taxes increasing and affecting the economically weaker. We had at the same time overtaxation, but also under-implementation of the Public Investment Programme. So here is how, ladies and gentlemen, the surpluses came about. And because there are SYRIZA colleagues who are taking on the cash pillow with the policy of overtaxation, I would like to point out the obvious: In the pandemic and the economy in recession, cash assets would have been depleted to finance all the measures to support the economy if the country had not been able to borrow from the markets. Greece raised 12 billion euros from the markets in 2020 at a very low interest rate and this is due to the restoration of the climate of confidence and credibility for the Greek economy. The Court of Auditors' report also records the increase in public debt, but also the inability to collect tax debt from the past. The central government's debt has risen to 194.3% of GDP, while in real figures the central government's debt growth amounted to EUR 30.2 billion. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that at the end of 2014, the outstanding debts of citizens as a whole to tax and insurance funds were EUR 85 billion. After four years of governance SYRIZA these debts increased to 140 billion euros. Another important element of the Court of Auditors' report is increasing the operational costs for the public by EUR 2 billion in 2018 compared to the previous year. How did that come about? With rationality and beyond programming of recruitment of permanent and temporary staff. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the position of Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skulakakis, in the committee and I support his view that the framework for monitoring and evaluating financial data should be changed. Both the budget and the balance sheet should not be limited to the recording of cash flows, but to record the full picture of liabilities and claims. The balance sheet should have accurate estimates of the financial risks that may arise, such as the extra costs resulting from the reimbursement of retroactive costs to pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, the management of the pandemic needs bold policies, but also budgetary wisdom, with which confidence is built. This confidence has been shattered through self-consciousness, unresolved policies, illusions and practices such as those of the previous government, practices in which I regret to see that it is once again plunging itself as an Opposition, but on the other hand, that we are in 2020 today. Citizens have memory and judgment, they have acquired a high level of maturity and critical thinking. They reject populism and prejudge the New Democracy and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to manage not only the extraordinary conditions that pandemic and Turkish challenges form, but also to reliably build a future more optimistic with social justice and development for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u76	Thank you too, Mr. Kavada. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, now speaks. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. We are now discussing the 2018 balance sheet, namely how the 2018 budget was implemented. Each budget and this one is nothing but a tool for redistributing socially produced wealth. In simple terms, the state budget, all state budgets without exception take them from many to give them to the few. On the substance, they receive the income from the vast majority of the people's strata, from the direct producers of wealth, to sustain the urban state, but also at the same time to subscribe those who are peculiar to a very large part of the socially produced wealth, capitalist businesses and their big shareholders. In this respect, therefore, the classic, anti-grassroots nature of all state budgets is characteristic. Second element. The then government of SYRIZA celebrated when we discussed the State Budget for 2018, that this will be the first Memorandum of State Budget. What was the results? These are the things that we had predicted, and which were confirmed by the balance sheet and balance sheet, that in essence this state budget has implemented two main issues: Firstly, budgetary discipline and consolidation. This means, in essence, that the invasion of the people's layers and people's incomes has continued and increased even further, with an even greater burden on the relationship between indirect - direct taxes. Basically, the most anti-popular taxes, direct taxation, have been strengthened. At the same time, in order to achieve this budgetary consolidation, it has also reduced the share of expenditure, but not all expenditure, but expenditure on satisfying social needs. On the substance, we are talking about health expenditure, about education, where not only have they frozen, but they have decreased even further in relation to 2017, such as, for example, state funding for the public health system and hospitals. Basically, we are experiencing the result of these policies tragically today on health and hospital issues in relation to the pandemic and the consequences it creates, the breakdown it has in the public health system. It was the policies of all governments and to reduce public health expenditure and to close hospitals and essentially to lower the public health system in favour of the private health sector. The second axis of this policy that was implemented with the 2016 budget was, of course, to create an even more favourable environment, so that the recovery of the capitalist economy could be accelerated. What did that mean? A retractor in which working rights have remained, institutional restructuring in the State and in the institutions in the administration, local and regional sectors, to make them more favourable in terms of the needs of business groups, financing to support the needs of businesses and, of course, to promote and accelerate privatisations. Will you say to me: Today we see something different in terms of the management of the current government at the time of pandemic and, indeed, in circumstances of a new capitalist crisis? No, the same logic prevails, on the substance of the big capital tax, as was then, and, of course, huge sums to support the needs of business groups and to hit labour rights. It is no coincidence that in one of his interviews today, the Minister for Labour said that all these measures that came were here to stay. These measures are rotating work, the suspension of contracts of employment, teleworking and the very cheap labour, as well as cooperation programmes, support for the essence of companies with money from the people, so that they can pay, as they say, wages for workers, in other words cheap labour. All for business groups! The result of these choices and of the then government and today is clearly the bloody primary surpluses, for which SYRIZA is now boasting. They are the ones that created the 37 billion-dollar pillow. And today, not only does SYRIZA boast about what he has learned and continues to bleed with the huge debts that the people have to bear in relation to the taxes and insurance funds, but also emphasises in every way and every tone that this money must be given to the business groups. In other words, it has been forcefully taken by the people to give them to entrepreneurs today so that they can secure their interests and needs. From this point of view, if anything is confirmed, it is that any form of management within the walls of this system is unpopular, whether it has a social-democratic sign, whether it has a liberal or any other mixture and variant of any sign. It is anti-grassy to manage precisely why it serves and meets the interests of business groups and on the altar of this satisfaction sacrifices any popular needs. This road is slippery. And if you were to identify something in advance, that is the logic stated by the New Democracy Government's representative in the case of individual responsibility, the tragic consequences of which are now being experienced. Individual responsibility as the primary choice of all governments - and the former ones - was the one that led to the deterioration of the public health system, because, he says, it is an individual choice if he wants to go to a public hospital or to a private hospital. This is precisely the legend that exacerbates social stratification. Rich people can go wherever they want, but the poor must be at home with the downgraded services of the public health system. The same applies to education. That is why we see today the systems falling apart and cannot be taught instruction. The same is true in hospitals, which, under the burden of pandemic, not only cannot last, but they cannot withstand. And the government, by moving the threat of individual responsibility, is trying to obscure the heavy responsibilities it has, because it has left the public health system intact, which is collapsed. It is also responsible for the tyre protocols which it imposed and which serve the needs of business groups. Knowledge of the protocols was the needs of business groups, whether they were tourism or, today, the operation of industries, supermarkets and large stores. That is why we see the situation in public transport. From this point of view - and I shall end with that, Mr President - the urban state which is lagging behind in this state budget is hostile to the people. It is hostile to workers and people, for it is precisely the interests of the dominant class with which it operates, whether it is businesspeople, whether it acts as a mechanism for creating a favourable environment for the action of business groups, or as a means of reproducing the labour force, as it is, in substance, to maintain and manage the very extreme poverty phenomena, degrading all other benefits to the popular layers and, of course, as a means of shielding the power of the bourgeoisie, but also a means of repression against workers' struggles. In this respect, we are clearly saying that in pandemic conditions, political and trade union activity is not suspended but adapted to the present conditions. So they are adapted to the present conditions and not the struggles of the workers, the self-employed, health and youth are suspended, so that they can claim not only their rights but also their survival under these conditions. In this respect it is clear, Mr President - and I thank you for the tolerance of time - that the JRC is voting against both the accounts and the balance sheet for 2018. Thank you, Mr Karathanasopoulos. Minister Theodoros Skakakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I shall refer to the substance of the bill and then make some political remarks. How do we measure public finances? Today, to be honest, we are measuring public finances much better than in the past, in terms of current expenditure, current commitments. We have a real picture of what is happening and very accurately about the costs and revenues of the general government. But there are many weaknesses I have spoken about in the committee. We do not have a proper register of fixed assets, that is a register of fixed assets that clearly includes what public property is and what it is worth. We don't have a warehouse book, we don't know what the government's cellular things are, at least accounting. We do not have the right record of obligations and requirements. We do not know in a credible way, for example, what is unacceptable recovery and what the chances of recovery are, and in terms of liabilities, we know our debt very accurately, but not the many financial risks from arbitration in disputes with individuals, the various actions that exist, the Community fines or, in general, the receipts from the community and, of course, the wage and pension claims, which have in the past been budgetary bombs, and for which we do not have a full and adequate record in the way that would exist in a real balance sheet of the state. It is clear that going to a state balance - and when I say the state, I mean the General Government, not the Central Government - will be a major reform which, regardless of which party one belongs, will help measure public finances. This reform has begun. The main work on the accounting reform shall be auctioned in the coming weeks and a part thereof shall be completed by 2023. I hope that all the parties, regardless of the debate that has taken place here, which was basically a debate not on the state's balance sheet and balance sheet of 2018, will help to get us to this reform together, because in the end, in the end, it does not matter what policy is going on. Whether it is the Communist Party, either the Greek Solution, the New Democracy or the SYRIZA, counting properly is good for everyone. I would like to respond a little to what I have heard in this debate, not on occasion, but to give the general picture. We are going through the biggest recession today since World War II, a global recession with an exogenous cause, and we are going through the greatest health crisis in the last century. Greece has been particularly vulnerable in these two crises. Some reasons are independent of our will. We have, for example, one of the oldest populations in Europe. This means that when the coronary grows violently, due to the fact that it affects the elderly very much, Greece is disproportionately affected by other countries. We also have - this is historic - two huge urban centers. We're not Finland. Half Greeks live in large and dense urban gatherings. And we also have four entrys of people: tourism, our people who are abroad and who are going, the land workers and workers who are also coming from neighbouring northern countries, and immigrants who enter illegally, irregularly - as you say - from land and sea borders. Greece is not an island. It's in the heart of a geographical area. All of this makes the country vulnerable to the coronary and the health system we received you know very well that it has five hundred and fifty ICUs, intensive treatment units. And in the economy the country was and is vulnerable to such a global crisis. The previous crisis has not ended well, at least with regard to private debt and public debt, and the country that we received as a government does not forget that it has and has the greatest unemployment in Europe and less investment as a percentage of GDP in Europe. Real GDP, our real national wealth, as ELSTAT told us, is 4 billion in 2019, 5 billion in 2018. It's underneath what was calculated. So we have had much lower growth in recent years than that calculated. In the midst of this lower growth, you put on the huge tax burden and the lack of credibility that the previous government would need to make excesses instead of making a rational economic policy. I have heard many say 'Why do you not spend more'? I think I will acquire the title of the budgetary officer who has signed most of the expenditure in the history of the Greek state, and I think I will still hold that title for several years. Public spending in the state budget this year exceeded EUR 70 billion. They're going to go over 70 billion euros. That's a deficit. We are lending this from the future. The government's planning is to borrow it from future growth and recovery. But if we were to follow the proposals of the Officerial Representation or of some other parties of the Anti-Population, which they firmly believe there is a leaf tree and make money, fruit unstoppable, we would enter an adventure and, if we follow their advice, we will enter adventure, an adventure similar to the one we've had in recent years. The preliminary draft budget for 2021, which we discussed in committee, had two scenarios, one for the possibility of pandemic going well and a worse script, which was sometimes anticipated by a lockdown - became earlier rather than later - with which we predicted 4.5% growth and a higher deficit, around 3%. The picture we now have is that we will go to the second scenario, perhaps a little more than 4.5% because of the vaccine, but in the second scenario. Are we going out of this crisis? Yeah. Now we have security that within the second quarter of 2021 we are going to get out of this crisis. I can't tell you for sure 100%, but the odds are overwhelming that we're going out at that point from the health and economic crisis. The recovery can be dynamic and will be dynamic. The readings are there. In the heart of the vaccine pandemic "MODY'S" upgraded us. She didn't pinch her to upgrade us, nor do we have any special friendship. He was seeing something. Large companies came to the heart of the crisis, at the heart of the pandemic, such as "MICROSOT" and "VOLKSWAGEN", with interest in working in Greece and many more. I assure you that the ones that will come will be much - much more. Our bonds are at 1% and they were before the pandemic at 1% instead of 4%, which was in SYRIZA. With the Recovery Fund we have the greatest help from every other European country per capita to achieve this recovery. In front of us, we have six hard months. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, just a minute. It will be six difficult months and health and it will be necessary, ladies and gentlemen, individual responsibility, because there is no society that can function without individual responsibility. And you know what? And the function of the state is based on individual responsibility. Public officials and officials carry individual responsibility for their work. Politicians must also have individual responsibility, and citizens must obviously also be able to show individual responsibility. It's not a bad word to blame. It is not a bad word to try to participate positively and creatively in a social whole. It is the basis of the good functioning of societies that we are all positively and creatively involved in this, and we should not make this a field of confrontation for micro-party reasons. It is better to leave it outside and make mistakes - incorrect there are - and omissions rather than criminalising individual responsibility and thus encouraging the failure of our joint effort to pandemic. So these six difficult months will pass and the economic hard months will pass. The government will help. "The good Samaritan" - said Constantine Mitsotakis - "he was good, not because he had a good mood, but because he had kept the resources, he had money to help." The government has kept the resources. It will help the economy wherever and as much as it takes, because the money comes from us, from the taxpayers. It is therefore not time to waste, it is time for wisdom and soundness, it is time to help those who need to get out of this crisis in which we entered, not with our own will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned. Consolidation of the State’s Report, financial year 2018 and b. Consolidation of the State’s Balance Sheet, financial year 2018.’ Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Following the State's State's State's State's Report, financial year 2018’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. [[Accepting the draft law]] Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Principle of State Report, financial year 2018’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u80	Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘Following the State's Balance Sheet, financial year 2018’? The accepting of the draft law, please rise. Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Principle of the State Balance Sheet for the financial year 2018’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u81	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting, including the debate and the vote on the State's Report and Balance sheet, for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u82	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-10-S1-commons.u83	With the consent of this House at 13.23 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 11 November 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
