ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 29 May 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 737/25-5-2020 by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Personal data of pupils and teachers in the conduct of distance learning, especially after the decision on live retransmission of courses". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 718/20-5-2020 by the Deputy of Corfu of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Application for a Rehabilitation Unit of the General Hospital of Corfu". 3. The question by number 734/25-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The suspension of school excursions in the interior and abroad without the provision for a refund of money". 4. The Question No 724/22-5-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Deletion of redundancies from 1 June 2020.' B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis under number 733/25-5-2020 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Removal of a reduction in the national constitution of the members of the Greek minority of Albania and of the relatives from the countries of the former Soviet Union.' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 736/25-5-2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Re-entry of seasonal workers in tourism'. 3. The Question No 732/25-5-2020 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Discrimination in the supply of pharmaceutical material between uninsured and insured Diabetic Type Is". 4. The 743/25-2020 topical question by the Deputy of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminis to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Reservation and opacity in the choices of the hostile structures in mainland Greece". 5. The 740/25-2020 topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Emergent need to find a definitive solution to the housing of the officials of the Santorini Airport's Fire Service". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 5386/2-4-2020 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct support for the citizens who are waiting for the temporary or main pension and for the long-term unemployed in the vicinity of the pension". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Christos Giannoulis, Member of the Radical Left, with reference to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Weakness of thirty thousand thirty-thirty-three workers in public employment programmes to receive the unemployment benefit and to be subject to the measures to support the branches affected by the pandemic." 3. The Question No 5507/6-4-2020 by Mr Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "National Health System: Ensure the work of the four thousand OAS contractors at the hospitals of the U.S.." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the questions to be asked. The first question under number 4927/13-2020 will be debated with the question of the cycle of petitions - Questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Suspension of charges by banks for the use of electronic transactions during the pandemic period'. The first will be answered by the Minister of Development and Investment present, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The question, apparently even from the title, was tabled on the basis of the continued high bank charges even during the krone period for electronic transactions. And, of course, we must say that of all banks, one - and it is not systemic - it has suspended these charges for a month. It's the Cooperative Bank of Chania. All the others continued uncomfortable as if nothing happened to our place. However, I would like today to discuss the broader issue which is a time-consuming one. In time, banks choose to cover their operating costs, a large proportion of their operating costs, at costs that charge transactions, commissions or other ways. I had also dealt with it as a State Secretary for Consumer Protection in 2010-2011, when it had again reached a high level in the midst of a crisis and then. Making use of a law that had been proposed and passed by the House on to the Minister of Development, the late president of the Parliament, Dimitris Sioufas, proceeded to the abolition of ten abusive conditions used by banks in the conventions. However, evolution shows that they always find ways to get them. So we have a time-consuming phenomenon that needs to be monitored. And of course the Ministry of Development by means of the General Secretariat for Consumer Protection is responsible for consumer protection. But the Treasury, which takes its tail out of the way - and I say this because in writing it tells us that it has no business - the head of the banking system, and that must also do something. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, my question is not to prove today that the banks are misused to make maximum charges. This is a given one and consumers know it. The question is, Minister, whether we can find a way of monitoring and - more importantly - if we can find a way to ensure that more than one level cannot charge consumers. Because in the market, you know very well that competition works. When it comes to buying a product that is important, it is market research, it works competition and the consumer chooses. This is where the charge is made in the second phase. You choose a bank for alpha or beta reasons that have nothing to do with the charges, which come next. Besides, there is a question that all four banks at about the same level charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u3	Get to the question, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u4	I shall therefore conclude by saying that the search for the way in which this phenomenon of excessive charges is controlled and punished is what is called for and not to prove that they are doing so, because they too are admitting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u5	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I apologise to the honourable Member, because this question should have been answered in writing. The written answer was prepared, but within the general chaos it was beyond the deadline, so it turned into a topical question and I came immediately to answer because I did not want it to appear that I am either denying or not respecting a really good colleague. First of all, let's see the reality a little, and then I'll tell you what we think and what we're trying to do. With regard to bank charges - I mean their differences in transactions - the image that our services give us, both our Greek and European services, Mr President, are that bank charges in Greece for this type of service - I am not talking about interest rates, for example, for card rates - are not more than the European average. On the contrary, they are considerably smaller. I will bring and present to you immediately the answer given by Andrea Naria, the President of the Supervisory Board of the European Central Bank on 26 November 2019 to the European Parliament and Vice-President of the European Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Papadimoulis. There in the last paragraph of his reply, in particular, states that in the second quarter of 2019 the contribution of the commissions of the debts to the operational income of the Greek banks under the supervision of the European Central Bank was less than half of the corresponding contribution to banks in other countries applying similar business models. In particular, for the Greek banks, these charges were about 16% of the operating costs - that is, they cover their operating costs - while the average of the balances is 33%, measured on a rolling basis in four quarters. I would like to put the relevant letter to the Minutes, just to know why we are talking about. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The official figures of the European Central Bank say that in so far as we can measure the charges based on covering the bank's operating costs, the Greek banks are just below half the European average. To help you with this, I will present to you, to have it and study it, the invoicing of basic bank operations by four very large European banks, Societe Generale, Deutsche Bank, BBVA and Banco BPI. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's a detailed list. It's all the banking business, whether they're in the guise or interbank or electronic. You will find there, with a simple reading and compared to the Greek banks, that the charges are too low in reality in Greece. That's what we're talking about. Now, if the debate is that because of the economic crisis that Greece has experienced, because of the support that the banks have taken to Greece, because of other discussions, we should push the charges down, this is another debate that we can make in secondary and I would be happy to answer. However, the official information is what I have just submitted to you. I have tabled them, not to defend the banks, I have no such anxiety, but above all because, in order to have a normal debate, we need to know the reality, what we are talking about. Therefore, the charges are not excessive, at least on the basis of European experience. With regard to the other issue you raised, which is the issue of competition between the competition authorities: you know that here is an investigation by the Competition Committee. A few months ago, there was a very strong day with the checks within offices, even of the banks' CEOs by the Competition Committee. The conclusion of the Competition Committee on this audit is expected. Until the conclusion of the Competition Committee on this matter, I cannot say anything to you at all. When the Competition Committee concludes on the basis of the information obtained, whether or not there are harmonised practices, the Competition Committee and the Ministry of Development will be initiated accordingly. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u7	Good, Minister. As far as I understand it is the dogma that is circulating in Europe - I say it as a romantic Eurosceptic - 'help Europe of banks and bankers'. That is what you said to us that Europe has answered Papadimoulis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I hoped we would agree that there are excessive charges to see how the banks are controlled. The Minister has chosen to adopt the Commissioner's answer and I am obliged to say that the Commissioner...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u9	He said he'd fill in his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u10	The Commissioner gives an artificial answer - look out! - in response to the percentage of charges on operating costs without saying, but to what percentage is the operational costs of banks in Greece on the turnover of banks, because we all know that the bank's operating costs are much higher in Greece than in other European countries, more than twice as high. Therefore, the charges that the consumer comes to pay, without having to pay, are at least more than double. I will give you an example on the basis of the information it gives in the reply. For example, it says that the average keeping an account is for a 24 euro bank, 11 euros for another and 36 euros for another. In Greece, I found that when you choose to keep the account, it is EUR 60 the corresponding fee. From there, there are a number of patents that our bank executives have devised. Instead of working on how to ensure liquidity in the market, financing activities, facilitating young people, entrepreneurs who have an idea and want to implement it, they are working on how to charge more. Here's what the National Bank has done. I mention the National Bank by name because I'm a client and because I deposited 1,150 euros this morning for the second instalment of the Master's degree, which I do at the University of Peloponnese. I'll submit it to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What have they found and based on what information Europe says we have low? For the two euros it bills me, it has found the following two ways: order and commission costs, i.e. it has found another name. The data reached in the European Union on the cost of this electronic transaction is only 1 euro. Therefore, it presents as the cost of the transaction only EUR 1 while charging EUR 2. These are the patents that have been discovered to charge and lukewarm people twice as much as our banks, which, otherwise, need support and we give them, because all governments have supported the banks. We expect them to ensure liquidity in the market and all they do is make patents about how they get away from European control and how they will charge more. I mentioned one example to you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, what you said does not share with the Secretariat-General for Consumer Protection, at least entirely, because it writes in its reply: 'In view of the continued increase in electronic banking through the Internet and the serious importance of consumer protection, we shall proceed there...'. It doesn't tell how much this charge is or whether it's excessive or anything else, but it tells you we have to watch. The question is, Minister, that we should not oppose this. I say to you that it is a given fact that they are - I do not want to describe them as paedophiles - they are inventive. They're looking for ways to cover their operating costs. This is what they are looking for, but not from real transactions that have to do with loans and other things. Use others through the bleeding of consumers. It's about how we find a way to have an upper limit. Regulation 751 provides for certain things and, unfortunately, does not apply to Greece. You need to see what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u12	Is it because the institution of the Consumer Counsel is not working as it should be? Is it because the General Secretariat is not working? Is it because the Treasury - I am putting the greatest burden on it - is it making a fool out of it because, while it is supervising, according to the law of the banks, it says that they do not have competence and refers to the Secretary-General of the Consumer? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Kegeroglu, I wish you success in your postgraduate and when it's done, we expect that. You know, because I have a lot of personal appreciation, it's impossible for me to fight with you, even so, for the question, but I'll try to sum up. First of all, the General Secretariat for Consumers has told you what I said in my prototype. One debate is whether there are excessive charges. I told you what the official evidence says. I brought two different official figures, one was the percentage of operating expenses, which you said were other operating expenses in Greece, which is why the percentage goes further, but then I gave you a table of the same charges per bank in Europe. This is a whole number, one is the percentage, the other is integer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u15	It doesn't include it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u16	I am not that special to see whether the banks in Europe are doing similar tricks. I can only rely on the official information that the agency can obtain from the European supervisory banking authorities. I can't talk about anything else. If there is a complaint, such as the one you have made, I would very much ask that it be lodged with the General Secretariat of the Consumers and you have my word that we will look into it and if it is illegal, it will also be fined. We have already put many fines on the banks during my term of office. Perhaps the biggest fines have so far been imposed on banking institutions and insurance companies by all the previous Development Ministers for the time I am Minister and the banks have been forced - I will not say what, because I do not want to get involved in the banking market - to suspend many of their decisions and applications that have been misused. So we don't leave anyone without control. So be sure. So do the complaint, I will investigate it and the services will answer you after they do the check. But in the general picture, I repeat, that is what the official figures say. Now, in the second part you have said, because of the great increase in electronic transactions, if the banks themselves have to reduce bank charges through electronic transactions, because of increased volumes, I can only tell you my opinion, I cannot impose it and I do not believe in legal applications for valuation of banking products and banking services, because, as I have said before in this House, I am a free market fan and I believe that competition will solve this. I therefore believe that my major task is to ensure that competition works. In order to ensure that competition operates, the Commission's investigation of competition is carried out unnecessarily to determine whether or not harmonised practices exist. If the investigation of the Competition Committee does not end up, it would be irresponsible for you and me to say that it works or does not operate. When the conclusion of the committee comes out, if it says that competition works well, if it says that competition does not work and that there are harmonised practices, you can be sure that the law and the fines will be too heavy, but we will go institutionally and correctly. With regard to the great debate on bank profitability, the need to support the banking system will only say this to close. The government, in the midst of the COVID pandemic -19, has taken a number of measures to support businesses on the one hand and to avoid a new round of red loans on the other. And the payment of interest rates on business loans and the 'TEPTIX II' programme and the new programme, the guarantee and, in general, the banking tools we have created, aim to provide liquidity on the one hand to the market, which is what is needed for our economic activity and for the control of unemployment, on the other hand, to avoid creating a new round of red loans and, therefore, to support the banking system. In the economy, Mr President - and I reply to the honourable President-in-Office, I am neither in favour of the banks nor against the banks. I like the business of the market economy and capitalism. In capitalism, there are also banks, probably not without the banks. Without the banks there is no capitalism. We therefore need to make sure that there are banks healthy, we want them to have profits, because if they have no profits, there is a problem in the system, but we do not want them to be over-profited against the citizens. We control this and I repeat that we will be extremely strict if any of the things you have said prove to be true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u17	We move on to the second question under No 720/22-5-2020 of the First Circuit of the Achaia Radical Left Coalition, Mr Athanasias (Syria) Readstopoulou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Delay in the implementation of decisions on the school manuals in northern Macedonia." The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Konstantinos Vlassis. Here, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, we met again on 28 February on the same subject, at the door of the entrance to the pandemic, and I come back to the exit of the pandemic. And then you admitted that the Joint Interdisciplinary Committee for School Handbooks, Maps, etc. It was not until 28 February that we discussed the matter at all. The Interdisciplinary Committee was set up in September in an accurate capacity of 2018 and met from then until May 2019 four times. There was a private communication identifying the points, accepting that there are points to be amended in the school manuals of Northern Macedonia, in accordance with Article 8(5) of the Ambassadors' Agreement. It was agreed that drafting committees would be set up to make these changes. The curriculum had to change for the school period 2019-2020. There has been nothing at all, and certainly the pandemic has fallen, but it has not even been until February. All of a sudden, however, we learn that the Ministry intends to change the members of the Interdisciplinary Committee and the President. There was, in the private communication, an exact programme of how the committee, which had taken too much - very important steps, will go ahead. He had identified the changes, the two arms of the committee and the Greek and Northern Macedonia had gone ahead with the changes that had been identified. Nothing's happened. We see here, Mr Secretary-General - and after the latest news of the change of members of the committee and who will be responsible - a complete inertia, not only for the implementation of the letter but also for the spirit of the Prespecies Agreement, an inertia which is not justified by all that is being done in our neighbourhood. We would really like to know if you are changing the committee and what it is like to plan for these committees at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u20	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, the truth is that it makes me really impression that you come here today and you ask the same question, which we discussed not on 28 February, as you said, but as I see on 9 March, that is, just two, three days before they close everything at home before the whole pandemic follows. I really am surprised how exactly before the House closed down you asked this question and when it opens, you do the same thing. So I had the opportunity to refer to the Joint Committee of Experts with the neighbouring country on historical, archaeological and educational issues on 9 March, as I said during the debate on your previous parliamentary question. So since then, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, as I have said before, all these exceptional measures have been taken to deal with the pandemic, so international meetings have been held and the committee has therefore not been convened. I think everyone agrees on this, and we have not made any trips outside Greece. So no flaws exist. As you said at the end, because at first you did not mention it, there have been four meetings. We have to schedule the fifth, no one disagrees. They have not changed members, so I do not understand where you are from, but there is currently nothing we should announce. Of course, there is clearly no inertia. As far as the composition of the Greek section of the committee is concerned, the aim is always to provide the best service of its purpose and the best representation of the Greek side. In addition, the change in composition has occurred on 24 December 2018, only two months after its initial formation on 16 October 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u21	Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Undersecretary, you told me there were four committee meetings. There have been four meetings until May 2019, since then there has been none. It was planned by the Joint Interdisciplinary Committee that drafting committees would be set up in November to make the changes, namely the committees that will write, which will draft the changes proposed by the Joint Interdisciplinary Committee. You are telling me - and rightly so - that the coronary pandemic was intervened and there could be no meetings. I told you, too, and I'm not telling you about these meetings. After all, from last year on May until - on the 28th I tabled the proposal - 9 March we discussed in your government, none of the scheduled meetings were held. We put this aside, I'm not talking about the pandemic period. I asked you another thing. This interdisciplinary committee had gone ahead, programmed, the fifth meeting had to be held in November and all that. He had moved on to changes, he had proposed changes. The editorial committees were pending, which, regardless of pandemic, could work. But here, in the midst of a pandemic, we are learning something else that the multidisciplinary committee is changing. I also asked you this: is there a change in the multidisciplinary committee? Does the president change, Mr. Sfetas? Are the members changing? Because that is where we will have further delays. It is a committee whose members have done a great deal of work. Unfortunately, I do not have the time to talk about what they did, namely what the Prespecies Agreement for Ancient Macedonia intended for, for which your party had lifted last year and beforehand a further revolution. Mr. Vorides is here, he knows it. They happened in the House and outside the House. The Prespecies Agreement foresaw them, and I see that instead of coming far more forceful than us, you, who are protecting - you have told me in your reply, I have extracts - I see a complete inertia. But there is another issue in this context. The letter and, above all, the spirit of an agreement gains value when it can be reproduced and especially in the younger generations. So I ask you in particular: Firstly, did the editorial committees come together, regardless of the pandemic? Secondly, are there going to be changes in the interdisciplinary committee? We're learning it from news reports. The "NATION" on May 9, if I'm not mistaken, has published it. Are you confusing it? You don't deny it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u24	Obviously, Mrs Readstopoulou, you have more information than I do. I do not come to announce any change in the committee, nor do I know anything, so at the moment you can comment on newspaper reports, which I do not know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u25	Ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u26	I asked you. I didn't take it for granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u27	You asked it before, and I told you that I have no change to say to you. If there had been any change, you'd have been informed. Now you're asking me to comment on a post. I can't get into the process of commenting on every post, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou. I repeat, there was no inaction at all. Repeat and say what you said just before the pandemic begins, start it immediately the next day, and I really don't understand what logic you're saying, as if we're living in a different parallel universe. You're trying to tell us, like nothing happened these two months, about oligories, which I really don't understand. From there on, we are clearly talking about an agreement which you have voted on, you have supported. You know our opinion of this agreement. We don't think it was a good deal. Nevertheless, we support it, because we believe that the state has continued and that is why we are making everything a priority for us, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, to support our history, our cultural heritage, which are essential elements of our national identity, our nation from ancient times to present, as well as we do everything we can to support the brand name of our Macedonia. From now on, as I have had the opportunity to point out during the debate on your previous question, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall ensure that the provisions of the Ambassadors' Agreement are applied consistently and faithfully and therefore for the implementation of the decisions of the Joint Ministerial Committee of Experts on historical, archaeological and educational issues. Since you have also referred to school manuals, it is a matter which is contained in both the competences of the Ministry of Education and in fact I cannot also express the views of the Ministry of Education, but you can be sure that everything that goes through our hand will be done quickly, so that we can resolve any differences and move a step further. I repeat that it has nothing to do with coming back to a question immediately after this two-month period, a two-month period in which there was a lockdown globally. You come and leave the government, which you know is our attitude to such matters, and you come and give us two months later because we have done nothing in these two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u28	What are you planning, Minister? It's been a school year. Is another one going to be lost? You didn't tell me anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u29	We move on to a group of three questions which the Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer, Mr Makis Voridis, despite his long presence here in the committee responsible. I must point out this. We will discuss the third question with number 741/25-2020, the first-round question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and the Arcadia MP of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos - I am opening a parable to thank him for his long presidency on Friday night in the House - to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "When will the projects for the development and protection of the Bytina State Foundation be started to reverse the situation and cease its abandonment?". By coincidence, my dear Odysseus, is the third time I chair this particular question. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, on Friday there was very much debate and since there was a mood, we continued.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u31	But don't overdo it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u32	We are within the framework of democracy. Mr Minister, as the President has said, three times we have said so in a short time before the lockdown. The Trinity Foundation we have discussed, first of all it has a characteristic. The main issue is if there's money. The main issue in all policies is that. After thorough research and control, about what I had submitted to you for the 7,500,000 million, which is certainly not all the money, but there is this money - it is also known from the Ministry of Finance that we have it. Unfortunately, the previous government, although it had credit up to 300,000, did nothing. He referred to us. He referred us back to us. We have started this attempt for too many years. It is now an eight-year process. You are aware of all the issues. The Bytina State Foundation - "Triadafleidio" will be a pole of attraction and development of a mountainous region, Gortynia, and will help the primary sector very much. There could be seminars. You've been talking about beekeeping. There could be a Byzantine garden that will be visiting and much more that will be visiting in this area. We have the building infrastructure, which has been done, we have the money, but we cannot coordinate ourselves to implement these actions and really take the region and this space. Minister, we've been through this many times. We told you to come down. You have no responsibility for not coming. That's the way it is. But we have time ahead of us. You can come on Tuesday and Monday and Sunday night and whenever you want. That is why we are waiting today for you to announce the good news that you had two months to decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u33	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u34	Mr Constantinople with these specific questions on this issue is a good example of how a parliamentarian can effectively move on, because by insistence and repetition it actually moves in one particular direction. We were left with the fact that we were going to make a visit in order to decide by means of what we are going to do with this institution. To be specific, I will propose to you - and I am available on Monday 1 June to be with you and the district manager, I will tell you if he is available - to visit the foundation and to make decisions there on how to proceed or in any case to put some plans in order to move on. I mentioned a specific date without prejudice to the availability, so that we can coordinate the rest of us in order to get together and move on. The second thing I have to say to you, and which is a development, is that there has already been a meeting with the Regional Director of the Peloponnese, Mr Nika. It expressed its strong interest that the region should be involved in strengthening and exploiting the Foundation's activities. It therefore remains the regional and regional government to involve them in our plans. The third thing I want to say is that we have already started a number of directions that we think are quite immediately effective and positive. And that's all we can make a beekeeping pack. We have made a basic budget and the apiculture package costs, with the various things that are needed - not to mourn you now, because it is a first study of the issue - around EUR 80,000, which we can ensure. The second thing we are concerned about is that we need to build a modern system of fire extinguishment in the album. This, too, has a cost that the fire service has mainly given us. It's 29,000 more. We can operate a model beekeeping. That takes more work, but we're starting to get some first prices. So there's a hive cost around 400 euros, than they're writing to me here. We can also operate an educational and experimental cotton. We need to highlight the wall of famine and fence by metal stakes, and we are certainly running the existing programmes as well. I would also like to tell you that in these days part of the damaged vineyard of the state estate of Bytina takes place. We believe that the first 10 days of June will have completed planting of at least twenty-five acres. I am not saying that this is an integrated approach. I say, however, that it is a first approach to start energising the foundation and its potential.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u35	Come on, Mr. Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u36	Minister, just as you put a date, whether it is June 1, or June 2, or June 3, it is important, as is Mr Nika's mood, which could really help many times. The region has resources and could assist with the Municipality of Gortini and with all the institutions. We could immediately, whenever you say - I am available on 1 June - that there should be a substantial debate that will take place in a series. One of the themes in order to be able to function the Trinity is that it also needs staff. I am happy to say that on 1 June - and you take over as a ministry - we will meet with the people of the Ministry who are aware of the issues, understand, with people who are there and who have worked for the previous years, with the foundation, with the municipality, with the district, whoever wants to help, in any case. But not stop trying. Because the main thing is that we don't have to do any more meetings that won't lead somewhere. I'm staying in this. And I would like to tell you this because you combine the legal framework and you are the Minister for Rural Development: if you look now, Mr President, the Trinity has 7.5 million. He also had stocks many years ago. We are talking about a lot of money, which cannot be exploited. Minister, it is a good opportunity, because there are such institutions and because it is for the primary purpose, to create a legal framework, a legislative framework in which we can use not the Greek State's money, but the donor's money that is for this purpose. It is unfair to have 7.5 million - with 7.5 million, you will allow me, Mr President, 'we are doing priests in Georgia' - and we cannot make any use of them. In other words, we will find the coronary vaccine, we will find a cure for the coronary, but we will not be able to use the money of a man who has given for a particular institution. This, I think, is the greatest disappointment and time-consuming concern for us all. So, Minister, I hold this, that next week we will be in Bytina, and we will actually put another stone all together for the development of the Trinity Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u37	Very good. I don't know if the Minister wants to complete anything, because he said it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u38	I don't want anything, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u39	And I'll save time. We move on to the fourth Question No 735/25-5-2020 in the first cycle of the F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements to tree-growing due to frost in the Municipality of Tirnavos". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. The question, as you have said, Mr President, concerns compensation for the damage suffered by trees, in particular pears and cherries, in the region of the Municipality of Tirnavos in March of this year, 2020. The core of the question relates to the evolution that has taken place since the recent decision by the ELGA that the specific trees that suffered the disasters should be released from the compensation procedure. The OGA's excuse to farmers was that these crops were at a stage of limited flowering and fruiting that were not compensated under the ELGA Regulation. The result, of course, of this decision - and, of course, of course - is that farmers are faced with another economic blow, since the loss of income not only will make it even more difficult for them to survive, but it leads to deadlocks and to cover the current agricultural costs, but also to any failure to meet obligations they have in respect of contributions or other economic requirements - loans, etc. So, rightly so, the farmers in the Tyrnavos region demand that the ELGA and therefore the Ministry of Rural Development give an immediate political solution to the problem, beginning with the assessment and compensation procedure with the frost as an injurious cause. The questions raised are as follows: What action will the Ministry take to assess immediately the damages suffered by these crops in time to provide fair compensation and 100% of the damage. And, of course, the other important issue, which concerns not only this question, but dozens of other issues and problems that have arisen in the issue of allowances from the ELGA, is the change in this ELGA regulation to compensate both farmers and farmers for all natural phenomena and diseases at the same time, in production but also in capital. And, of course, the demand that farmers claim, that the ELGA public body should become a public body with sufficient state funding. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u41	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you refer to the frost which occurred on 17 March. The information I have from the competent authorities - to finish this matter, why do you ask your question and issues in general - is this: Cherry crops, early varieties: some of the crops were not in the blooming stage. Therefore, in accordance with the Insurance Regulation, these crops, i.e. damage caused to fruit trees by the frost before the start of flowering - pedal opening - are not covered. For the rest of the cherries the blooming stage had begun. It was therefore at a covered stage. However, no compensations were found at a rate. In the case of pears, no losses with percentages were observed. Partial production in table pears also occurs in other areas, but no negative temperatures have been observed. Table pears in the area were observed from the markings of fungiological pseudo-unit infestation. For industrial pears, the labels were found to be at a pre-anthic stage in the ice-cream season and are therefore not covered in insurance. For the evolution of kernel crops, reduced production was observed by the ELGA services, but mainly due to poor flowering or incomplete pollination, while the reduction was mainly due to fungiological insults. These reasons are not covered by the Insurance Regulation. Therefore, the Insurance Regulation sets out the framework under which the ELGA can compensate. The estimates made by the special geopoliticians, who see the insult and damage, are the specific ones. Therefore, at the present stage, there is no margin of insurance, insurance, possibility of insurance cover. What's that, that's a loss? Compensation remains two subsequent procedures. One procedure is the procedure of the MAGPs. The procedure of the MAGPs, in which they could be damaged, is specific, but also has specific conditions. The conditions are that the year's production should be damaged by type of product, which is set at 30% or more of the prefecture, scientifically substantiated by the Committee that loss of production is the result of an adverse weather treaty, not a combination of many, official meteorological data confirming the characterisation of weather as unfavourable, that expenditure on compensation for damages by the General Accounting Office of the State and for diseases be approved, that there are no appropriate means of combating the disease and that all crop care and techniques have been carried out. It will therefore be examined if we exclude compensation from the ELGA for the reasons I have told you, the possibility of going to PSEA, but on these conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. I listened to the Minister with care. It's familiar with what you said. They are provided for in the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this question also photographs, in one part at least, the fact that, on the basis of the ELGA regulation, there are no compensation for this cause, as well as a number of other, natural phenomena or, in particular, diseases affecting or harming production. The PSAs are known for history. The figures are small. I would like to mention this in the sense of the whole of an amount which is available for compensation for various crops which have been destroyed. And, of course, it is also the question of the conditions, even the integration of the MAGPs, and much more the great delay in compensation. We've been talking for three years, Minister. Here, now, they're getting into issues. And I'm telling you, honestly. I am not saying this, because I would like to welcome it in our conversation, or for those who will read what has been said, and so on. It is true that there is a need to strengthen the agricultural income of the farmers affected. Obviously, you have the assessment of ELGA service. Disasters vary depending on the area of the crop, trees, etc. Other fields may be small. In other fields it could be huge. And here, we are talking about people who pay an insurance body, ELGA, that is, farmers. I am opening a parentheses, because for some decade now, the state has been completely withdrawn from any funding it has paid to this agency, so that farmers are entirely financed with increased, of course, premiums for the ELGA from which, of course, they are not compensated, because the regulation does not provide for it. And, of course, the issue of regulation and the non-inclusion of a number of causes that lead to disasters and, respectively, are not compensated for by farmers is a time-consuming issue. It's a matter of time. We say that the government should see and face it in this direction. Because the previous government, in questions with the respective Ministers for Rural Development, said, 'we change it', 'we change it', 'we will include new' and nothing happened. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about the previous government. It's one of you who's left to do it. We say that you must do this, as the farmers demand. Of course, there will be a loss of income. That is what we refer to in the question. You understand that. Everyone understands that. There's gonna be a loss of income. In this respect, will the Ministry, the Government, by extension, proceed to any action? You're saying they're not going to be compensated. It's clear. Any compensation referred to in the PEAs. When will they get them, when they need them in the next few months? Because - close to the mind and the knowledge we say - if they had production and could sell it, they would also have an income. How will they respond? They have loans. They have debts and debts. Taxes are going on. They have to pay the ELGA. It takes capital and money to start the new growing season or whatever other rural jobs they have. What's gonna happen? How will they survive? How will they live? On these issues, in addition to the ELGA, which we insist is a political matter, in our view, through political intervention - the government, the ministry must take measures and compensate farmers for their loss of income. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] At the same time, however, we also believe that support measures should be taken in this direction to support lost income by a number of measures, whether this is called an exceptional grant or a suspension - and to say so - and to alleviate the debt burden or any other obligations to the State and to the public institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u46	However, in understanding and respecting the real problem, we must - I think - all - and I really mean 'all' - inform our producers of the given legal environment, which also exists the possibilities that the government has at all times. This means that if we have any damage, the compensation mechanisms are specific. It is the ELGA, if it is covered by the Agency - and I will come to this debate - secondly, PESA up to the total amount available and provided for as aid and under the conditions that I have told you. The other aid mechanism we have is the de minimis aid mechanism, the de minimis ones, but also specific ones. That's the data. We must not expect anyone that there is a possibility for Member States to do more than that. Anything more than that would lead to illegal aid and then revocation. So the central debate on damage issues is turning - and I think you are well aware - on the subject of the organisation, namely what ELGA is compensation for, what is its operating condition, what is its premium, what is its return. In order to be fully informed, the reimbursement currently made by ELGA to producers is far greater than the amount of their contributions. It is 180 million, the income per year paid by producers and the losses of 200 million, 205 million, 210 million a year. That is what also creates the problem of the financial problem of the ELGA. We therefore need to take the following lessons out of the debate: we need to take out the fact that the ELGA does not pay back. It returns with the above. We must also say at some point that we may want to put more damage to ourselves. More damage, however, covered means larger amounts. Greater amounts with these financial data from the ELGA means that we will speed up the collapse of the Agency. Already, the agency is in the crisis of many.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u47	Put the state on, Minister. For a decade now, the state has been withdrawn from the ELGA grant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u48	Very good. That is indeed a debate. I have said that in the second quarter of 2020 I will present to you a plan for the reorganisation of ELGA, which will include the reorganisation of its finances, its capabilities, the possibility of entrepreneurial private insurance, so that, finally, once this plan for the reorganisation of ELGA is completed, our producer will have better possibilities, services and benefits than he has today. So that's something I still do. I am telling you that I have already received a first conclusion from the committee which has worked for the reorganisation of the insurance system and with ELGA a first intervention will be seen in the next few years. So he's on our priorities. It is a central issue of the agricultural policy of this government, the question of the reorganisation of the ELGA, and it is one of the issues that we are addressing closely. I will speak in detail about this when the time comes and when we will be ready to present you with such a comprehensive plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. Before we go to the third question for Mr Voridis, I would like to say that it will not be debated on account of competence, because I see before me the first question under No 723/22-5-2020 of the first cycle of the Member of the Magnesia and Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic of Christos Bukouros to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Measures to support trade without a financial cost. Let's go to the third and last topical questions with regard to the Ministry of Rural Development. It is the fourth under No 722/22-5-2020 topical question by Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Apostolos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Voridis, on the subject of "To the hostage the farmers affected by the coronary pandemic". Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will start from the first question concerning an established inability to manage the EUR 150 million allocated to you by the Ministry of Finance to support the rural area. It is true that to date only EUR 10 million have been made available to farmers. We, from the beginning of these measures announced, insisted that this is not enough, that the needs were greater, let alone when the period of Easter followed in particular, which the rural area seemed to have had more problems. In his reply, the responsible Deputy Minister of Finance asked many SYRIZA Members for additional aid beyond EUR 150 million, especially in the fisheries sector which had a problem, said that EUR 150 million was for direct payments aimed at producers in the primary sector. Who were they, Minister? Today, two months from then, when the needs have been multiplying, you have left to the unclaimed EUR 140 million. When, then, will you strengthen the fishermen, especially when they faced a survival problem in the first period? When will you strengthen the winemakers, who have even proposed to you how to deal with the great problem they have with the absorption of their production and have submitted proposals to you in this regard? When will you strengthen farmers in the people's markets? You know the problems that have existed. And of course you know the problems that exist to a great extent in connection with ovine and caprine animals. For this sheep and goatmeat in the second part, after listening to you, I will also present our proposal. However, the point is that right now you have 140 million euros. I don't believe that the General Accounting Office could cause you any problem in absorbing to strengthen all of you that I've told you before? You have 22 million euros left by de minimis. Of course you have another EUR 48 million from the unsavoury of the Rural Development Programme. But you will tell me: Now you, Apostle, ask for 70 million euros for sheep and goats. SYRIZA asks for 300m euros to deal with the problem of the effects of the pandemic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, I know exactly what the situation is. When we have a 450m euro return from the management we have made in the financial corrections, the fines, money that goes directly to the state budget without...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Apostle, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're cutting me off to the most important one. Without that they have been budgeted in the state budget. It is not difficult for you to insist on the government's financial staff of at least EUR 150 million, one third of them, since they were generally concerned with rural areas, to return them to you in order to really satisfy the great needs of the area.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u53	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much for this question. To tell you the truth, I expected her to see how and how at last to clarify the landscape and not to have halves and to see what the realities are regarding aid to the primary sector, our producers, our farmers, our fishermen, our farmers in the koruna period are. To understand what you have said now, you have been the Minister for Rural Development, so you are not entitled to ignorance. You're obligated to know. You have the presumption of knowledge. First aid mechanism to get together: aid is, firstly, forbidden. The general rule in force in the European Union, in order not to distort competition, is to prohibit State aid in any sector. There is an exception under normal circumstances, de minimis aid. Why is this exception accepted? As it concerns a very small amount of the total aid received, it is considered that such aid, de minimis, up to the total amount of EUR 135 or EUR 140 million in three years and up to EUR 20,000 per producer, is considered not to distort competition. Exemption during the krone, lifting the restrictions, a new provisional regulation, and indeed aid of up to EUR 100,000 is allowed without a ceiling. What else happened in the frame of the coronary? Flexibility has been allowed in the use of unscrupulous funds for fisheries and rural development programmes in order to strengthen our producers. There has indeed been, and are mature, the specific regulations at the level of fisheries, and so there are measures that we must and can take on fishing and aquaculture. The measures are not ready yet. They are now being discussed on a proposal from the Commissioner responsible, in order to have a special instrument, this five-kilometre that you are hearing, aid to the issue of the rural development programme. What other possibilities are there? In the context of specific policies of the common organisation of the market in wine, there are specific measures concerning wine and its support. So what have we done for these since the beginning of the year? Let's see if we're strengthening or not strengthening. Minor aid: EUR 1 million in beet, EUR 2 million in greenhouses in Crete, EUR 4.3 million in Evros cotton, EUR 1.5 million in Evros's cereals. I've already ordered greenhouses in Heraklion for more than 200,000 euros. These are with the de minimis rural development mechanism. A total of these amounts, if you do quickly, is around 9 to 10 million euros. EUR 15 million has already been signed and they are going on for our fishermen. They will strengthen thirteen thousand of our fishermen with the de minimis mechanism to go faster. The de minimis fisheries are these, separately de minimis. Now be careful what else is what we have said. We have said State aid of 10.5 million to our producers. I signed another EUR 14 million yesterday for the support of public purchasing producers. We shall then discuss the sheep and goatmeat. I've already given orders to prepare for the asparagus. We are examining the demands for strawberries and we are in agreement with a number of productive sectors that are applying for them. But be careful, Mr Apostle, to be informed. We're talking about the coronary. What does that mean? Not all instruments, because it is a precondition for the provisional regulation, in order to aid, damage, damage, restriction to be linked to the restrictive measures of the coronary. Therefore, it must be established that there is a fall in demand due to restrictive measures, that the downturn in demand has led to price reductions, that the damage be determined, and then - I stress, because too many are confusing it - aid is done in a way that is transparent and is equal, which does not take into account prices and quantities, because if it took into account prices and quantities, then internal competition would be violated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Secretary, leave something for dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u56	I leave for dentistry maybe the most interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u57	Good. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u58	Minister, I do not disagree with what you said about the operations, if they are in line with the regulations, if they are de minimis, if they are State aid, etc. The issue is that you have the corresponding money and you have told those who have been hurt that you will give them the aid. Two, two and a half months, what's the problem? So, do I tell you to give de minimis more than what you can give? Oh, no. But we are talking in this context and given the conditions of pandemic. In many countries of the European Union such opportunities were previously provided. You're new to the Ministry. I remember that when the milk quotas were released, France had a huge problem with stocks and somewhere the European Commission came to agree on EUR 500 million. So the question is that what you had at your disposal did not give them in time. I, now, hear about the producers of the people's markets. Now you're telling me about fishing. FEC I haven't seen. And I'm talking in my mind about the difficulty these spaces find themselves in. But I expected you to give me an answer, especially for sheep and goatmeat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u59	Sure, I'll give you one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u60	Of course, I will now place myself on the basis of what has been reported from time to time. Looks like you didn't end up somewhere. What I would like to say to you in particular is that the ovine and caprine sector is a sector in which our country has invested a great deal, not only because of the qualitative nature of the products they produce, but mainly because it is the tool that contributes to the cohesion of the countryside. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] All of the aid to date does not particularly touch on the sheep and goat farmers. If the methodology you say is to be linked to carcases - somewhere over there you do not have much confidence in these numbers that they announce, I tell you this because I have served the place and I know - or with documentary sales invoices, it is not easy for ovine and caprine farmers in mountainous disadvantaged areas to justify such documents. But their activity is specific. If you take some villages in the mountainous countryside, you will see that the inhabitants are ten, of which two are farmers and eight are retired. In another village, they expect when the farmers will come from their folds to the square to drink a tick. So, for these people, you wrongly link their support to the support. Another thing is the associated aid, and it is about the state's intention to promote this space and the survival aid that we are discussing for these people. You have no problem and you can easily justify it. Everyone is waiting - and I'm telling you specifically today - for you to make this clear. They can't wait that long. They had the consequences from Easter and because of the milk production they lost, because they were unable to sell the lambs to continue the rest of the activity. So close this issue. I am returning to the fact that you already have funds available, like those EUR 150 million that I am telling you. I'm not talking to you about de minimis. I am speaking of an intervention which, on the basis of what has been done before with other countries, can be justified. You know, we have had the problem with the European Commission for years. And I am talking about your own governments at the time, because they had not been consulted, they did not have a dialogue open to the relevant committees, so that we could have a lot of what we had promised to avoid. So make these moves. I'm telling you, especially this space needs it. Don't let these people go once more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u61	Good, Mr. Apostle. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u62	You know, Mr Apostle, I always put the legal environment in place, so that the whole world and, above all, the producers, and you and my fellow Members, who are not specifically concerned with the subject, know what the objective possibilities are and what the conditions are. I don't understand now, you give up on us, why don't we go fast enough, or why don't we give it fast? Is that what you're saying? Allow me, in this respect, to have a mechanism, even the de minimis mechanism which is the fastest, because in the end it really wants a transparent procedure and a decision on what the amount is and it is sufficient to notify the committee. This disbursement mechanism shall then be followed. Even this mechanism has its time and you know it, because it has a process, i.e. a ministerial decision, signatures of ministerial decisions, approvals of the amount, General Accountancy, return, FEK, OPECE. He's got his process. So the fast one's a half and a half to two months. This is the fastest thing in the fastest process. There is no quicker procedure - therefore, to know what we are telling people - at a time of particular crisis that the General Accounting Office is occupied with requests for aid and approval, and at a time when employees also spend themselves and with the limitations of the coronary. So when you say that there is a delay, we should know what the environment is in which we work. Secondly, is the important thing here whether the month will be one, one and a half or two, or whether there will be aid? What are our producers expecting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u63	Both.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u64	I say, of course, but ultimately the aid. Do you know why I have the opportunity to meet the productive groups affected, to have a real dialogue with them and finally to tell them that I can strengthen them? Because I don't do these subtle things you suggest me to do. What did you say about ovine and caprine animals? You spoke of 72 million euros. Where did you get that from? How did you get that number?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u65	I could tell you, but I don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u66	Listen to something. I'll be very careful in the conversations. You have an advantage over me as Opposition. I speak every word that I say is heard and reproduces not only here, but others who are going to check what is going on. You have a luxury to say a number. But I am telling you, because I do not consider you, Mr Apostle, irresponsible - the populist, I believe, this involves the element of irresponsible - to search for the slaughter details, to search for the quantities in kilograms, to put the price disruption, and you will see that the amount I choose to give is not just generous, not just fair, but is more than the data. And that's what those who are talking about with me know about the money issues. You told me something else. You say to me: "You know, don't put the connection as a criterion." Let me see the subject of the tier. It's a conversation. The delivery of milk to put it as a criterion, or am I just going to put the pounds as a criterion? Do you want me to just put the pounds as a criterion? What if I put them in, what's the amount? I stress it because you say words and I tell you not to say them. Next question: Did you when you gave the ovine and caprine farmers the associated criterion? Did you get the milk delivery? Why did you do that? I hear a third criticism: 'You are beating', it says 'the milk-producing ones with the meat-producing ones. Those who have suffered damage are those who produce meat, they must be strengthened." Really? Aren't you telling me those who declare females surrendered for slaughter? Tell me, let's get the numbers to look. When I set the criterion for milk, why do I put it? To know that there has been childbirth, therefore, since mother was born, she produces milk, so the milk produced is delivered, and I have an initial criterion that she has actually been given birth without being obliged to go to the VDUs to see who actually delivered meat. Because if I go to the VDUs and see who actually delivered meat, it's going to be unpleasant. However, I would like to draw a criterion in order to ensure that there is a fairness criterion so that those who did not deliver a pound of lamb will not be strengthened. We're setting a criterion. There are issues here. In fact, there are some cases where, perhaps by this arrangement, which - be careful - must be horizontal regulation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u67	And that's what you're closing down with, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, I'll be right out. It must be horizontal, because otherwise - be careful - I am violating the regulation and provisions on internal competition. The additional work we are doing, Mr Apostle, there - otherwise we would have made the decision, we have reached it all, we have reached the figures, we have reached the figures, we have reached everything - that we now work with additional information, is why we are trying to cover just and some such cases as you point out. The sums you refer to, of course, are out of place and time. There are no such amounts. Also, do not confuse a de minimis aid, which you have chosen to give for other reasons, for your own reasons, with aid linked to the damage suffered by the coronary sector at a certain time, i.e. the Easter period.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you're done because I can't do this anymore. We're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u70	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u71	No, Mr. Apostle. It's over. There is no such possibility. There's no way. The Minister spoke for six minutes and you five in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u72	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Apostle, you ask, have three hours at your disposal to say what you want. The topical questions are topical.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u74	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u75	Nothing is recorded in the Minutes. She's off the phone. We move on to the debate of the first under No 721/22-5-2020 topical question by SYRIZA MP Dramas Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Home Affairs on the subject: "Not published - annulment of a decision by Drama Municipal Council to dismantle the Municipal Operation of Social, Cultural and Tourism Development (DECOPOTA), under the responsibility of the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace. Restoration of legality’. The State Secretary for the Interior will answer Mr. Lebanon. Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, outside the Chamber. Mr. Xanthopoulou has been given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. The Municipal Operation of Social, Cultural and Tourism Development of Drama Prefecture is an operation that has left its print in the city. I will not actually go into the matter if it was right or wrong to abolish it. I want to stay in the press and in the process, because this is insulting me, as a member of the Legislative Body and as a dragon citizen. The company was decided on 22 January 2020 on the City Council. The City Council, acting by a majority, decided to resolve the problem. This decision was accepted in terms of legality and remained the procedural stage of its mission to the FEK in order to complete the process of resolving the company. On 9 March 2020, i.e. two days before the publication of n. 4674/2020, which provided for a veto right to the Mayor, i.e. if the mayor does not agree, the decision of the municipal council is not implemented, the Mayor submitted a declaration of refusal to accept the decision prior to the entry into force of the law and while the Decentralised administration, as it had to, sent its opinion on the solution of the CECTO, on 11 March, made use of the law, saying, "a, now I cannot send it, because the new law is in force and therefore, in order to be published in the CEC, the law allowing this publication must apply at the time of publication". Two issues arise in this case. First of all, I have the impression as a member of the Legislative Assembly that we are legislating on order, taking back to various people to do their jobs. The Mayor of Dramas cannot go before the law enters into force to state that he is not in agreement with the solution, which is accepted and then, although it was tabled before the law comes into force, he is taken seriously. Secondly, as a Dramian citizen I am annoyed that a decision by the Municipal Council of the Dramas is written in the oldest shoes of both the Mayor and the Administration, because this is a majority decision of the municipal council, which must be implemented anyway. Let me tell you the last thing, Mr President. Municipal advisors from the Decentralised Administration are now invited to apology because they criticised this process. So you see the logic of the downhill: an authoritarian arrangement, which starts with the mayor's veto in the decision of the municipal council, where it ends up. I conclude, Mr President, by asking the questions: will the Ministry take the necessary steps to restore legality and insist on this problematic and anti-institutional provision, which gives the mayor a veto so that the majority decisions do not apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u78	Good. Mr. Lebanese will answer. Of course, I do not understand how the majority that supports the mayor has another view, by a hundred and eighty degrees in terms of decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u79	Do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u80	Oh, no. I'm saying this to hear the denology. Not answer me, let me understand. I know the mayors have a majority. The majority took the decision and the mayor vetoed it. That's what I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u81	It is simply proportional, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u82	Oh, it's the simple analogue, Mr. Xanthopoulou. Did you see?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u83	The mayor does not have an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u84	Okay. Mr Levanie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Blonthopoulos, make two different things clear. The first is whether or not the decision should be published. Let me remind you that the seven coordinators of the Decentralised Administrations have not been placed by this government. The other government has placed itself. To be clear. The City Council, in fact, took a decision in January 2020, calling for the solution of the operation. As the coordinator says and assures us, the audit took place within five days of the decision to cancel and its publication was pending at the FEK, which has the real legal effect, i.e. the solution of the operation and therefore the transfer, as the decision, of the staff to the municipality, etc. One parentheses: I think that the transfer of competence, without any corresponding modification of the organisation, would be totally problematic. This is another issue, however, which concerns the local affairs of the municipality. There is a consistent case law of the Council of State, which has been judged at the highest level. For example, I have a relatively recent decision, number 29/2010, which he says? In order to produce a legal result, it must also be at the time of decision, but also at the time of publication of the decision, that the conditions for the decision should apply. In February 2020, therefore, the bill was tabled, which was later passed and became the law of the state - n. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in all Member States. It is the only arrangement that gives the mayor the right, as you said, to "beto" - in introductory terms the word - to amend...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u86	Say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u87	The mayor's assent is required to amend legal persons. I will explain in detail why this has been done. So the bill is being discussed in the House, the bill is passed by the House, it is posted on the Parliament's site as a passive bill and it takes the procedure to be published on 11 March in the Government's Official Journal, in which case it is normal. So what has happened is nothing but the day when a decision was taken - when it was published - had changed the conditions for the decision to be taken. The mayor, apparently, saw that he couldn't. He saw this provision and sent the letter to the Coordinator of the Decentralised Administration, expressing his disagreement. That is why the decision was not published. I would like to stress, however, that the control of the legality of the acts of self-government is not the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior and, thankfully, it is. We are at the transitional stage right now. I believe that soon there will also be the independent supervisory office. So what anyone can do and I think they can reasonably do - they are their right - that is to say, the municipal councillors - is to appeal to the Article 152 Committee, and if they are not covered by the committee's decision, they have every right to go to the administrative courts, as you best know from me. This is their legal protection. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. At the moment, then, we believe that the decision was not published because the legal conditions were not met at the time of publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u88	Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u89	Let me answer your question, Mr President. The simple analogue, in which the municipal councils were elected, came up with the Drama Municipal Council, in which Mr Mayor, although he is the winner of the second round, but does not have an absolute majority. So the Municipal Council, in an alliance of wider powers, decided, for its own reasons, to abolish this operation. Minister, we can reach agreement on the substance of the matter, precisely because we can and can understand the context within which this debate is being held. I'm surprised that the Decentralized Command accepts the Mayor's statement before the law even comes into force. Do you realize what this is all about? That's why I'm talking about collusion, that's why I'm talking about delegating legislation, which is why I'm talking about covering, and, as a legislature, we have to operate under other conditions and other conditions. The mayor goes before the law comes into force, and says 'I don't agree'. The statement should not have been accepted first. To go at 11:00, to go at 12:00. That's the first. The second is this. Of course, they will - I suspect - proceeded with municipal councillors in what they judge. I don't have anything to do with it. I raise the issue of the deeply undemocratic attitude, which your legislation is the operative cause. It is not possible for the mayor to annul the decision of the municipal council. The country can't go back to a man's beginning. Where we ask for consents, shocks to deal with problems, what do you say to us as Dragon citizens today? Decide what you want on the city council, a man's authority, the mayor will decide. For me, that is the problem, and here I would like to call on you and ask that you be clearly placed on the matter. Finally, I would like to point out that it invites the municipal councillors to apologise. Do you understand that? So we're going back to the countryguard's seasons? How do you understand that? Educators in schools with Ms. Kerameos conducting guardians on municipal councils! What do you understand? What society do you want to give and what framework do you want to shape for the society you are visionating? These are the crucial issues and do not try to avoid the political substance of the disagreement. I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. I am not actually going to the point of whether or not the CECTO should be solved. It is the responsibility of the municipal council, and this will be apologies to the Iraqi citizens. It concerns me that a decision taken by a large majority depends on its existence by the mayor's consent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Undersecretary, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Blondopoulos, we have a different philosophy in this regard. We have a completely different philosophy for the functioning of self-government. We believe that the simple analogue, in the way it was implemented, was disastrous for the operation of self-government. You can use the experience and opinion - if you like - and mayors, who do not belong to the area of New Democracy, but belong to the area of the Change Movement and SYRIZA and the KKE, I would say yet. A characteristic example, which has been mentioned before, is Mayor Patricon Peletidis, who was elected by a very large percentage - an evaluable member of the Communist Party of Greece - and was unable to pass a budget because the rest of them came and overturned a budget. That's the simple analogue. At the same time that you are electing a mayor, and indeed, by an enlarged majority, an absolute majority in the second round, you are not able to really exercise management. I wonder: Is it not a question of the mayor how the legal persons of the municipality will be ordered, who will designate presidents, how will it divide the areas of responsibility of the municipal project? You know the lack of a majority of what he did. He's made him a felony in any politician, if you like, blackmail. Why? Because it was possible at any time for the municipal council, in which the mayor did not have a majority to build a new company, to cancel another company, to build a public utility, to build a legal person under public law, to abolish a legal person governed by public law. I am entirely in favour of a mere analogy, which runs counter to the will of the citizens themselves. Because, after all, the citizens of the mayor got out. If they ask who won the elections in the Municipality of Athens, they won't say the name of Mr. Bakoyannis's combination, for example. They'll say Bakoyannis won, won by Peletides, won by the mayor, followed by a combination. That is why it was disastrous to simply proportional, because it cannot combine two completely different things. You claim we legislate on order. That's not the charge. What we are doing is trying to give the mayors at this transitional period, for the majority of them, so that the municipalities do not lead to a paralysis, so that there can be budgets, so that a municipal work is carried out, for which the municipal authority has voted. So you want every mayor to be threatened that: we're gonna shut down your legal persons, we're gonna shut down a business, we're gonna close something else for you? I respect what the JRC says, that it disagrees with every kind of business. It is respected and we remember - and I call on the President to witness - from the time and the Municipality of Athens that he disagrees vertically. However, being a felony, the municipal authority itself threatening to do its work, I really don't understand that. It has been chosen to apply the hardest, most wrong choice, the simple analogue option, to this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u92	Good. Don't go back to the simple analogue again. Furthermore, this regulation, if I remember correctly, was a request from the CEDEFOP and the Committee of the Regions. Next, the second, with number 739/25-5-2020, is a topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, on the subject: "The next year for children's stations, the Programme for Harmonization of Family and Professional Life and the anguish of the people's families". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, every year, young people's homes experience anxiety as to whether they are finally able to find a place for their child in the pre-school education structures of the municipalities, as over time their number in staff continues to fall short of the needs. This is a torture and repetitive procedure, which starts from the time of applications, until the number of children is finalised, which is finally accepted. The lack of an adequate network of pre-school structures is even more pronounced by sub-financing to municipalities, which are reasonably impossible to operate the existing structures, with the necessary pedagogical competence, and under the conditions of infants and infants' safety. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] With the program "Family and Professional Life Harmonization", all governments over time only cover a part of the already major and established shortages in child care and education, but vary according to the circumstances giving temporary exit only on a yearly basis and for a very small part of children from poor people's households. This results in many families putting their hand in the pocket with food supplies or being driven as customers into private pre-school structures. For the following year there is still no official information from the government about the amount of funding, the available positions and what will be done with the staff, who have been in the hostage of contracts, staff as you understand it necessary to operate all of these structures, as well as the structures of the CSR and CSR - CSR - CSR - CSR - CSR - SA - who are also still, from poor to non-existent. In addition to all the above, conditions are now added, as they are shaped in the middle of a pandemic, without the slightest care on the part of the government to open up security conditions, as defined by the scientific community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we ask you, Minister: Firstly, what measures will the government take to operate and what conditions will it take in the event of a pandemic wave of children's stations and CIDAPs and CIDAPs - AMEOs in the municipalities in September. Secondly, what will be their level of funding this year and whether all parents' applications will be met? Thirdly, if the government finally moves on to the permanentisation of workers working on the basis of the programme. Finally, what design it has for expanding the network of public children and daycare stations in the municipalities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u94	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I will start from the most up-to-date of the questions you have raised, which concerns the operation of the children's stations and the rest of the structures in the period we are spending and the period of the last two months, because children's stations are operating until 31 July. How they'll work. What we are going to do is what we have done throughout the management phase: We are listening, consulting and trusting the committee of top scientists, which issues the relevant directives. The instructions have been given and have been announced. Already yesterday at the Ministry of Labour, the State Secretary responsible, Michailidou, issued a circular on the issue of CIDs and CIDs - CIDs and how they operate, which you can look for, to see. In general and in the vast majority of the regulations it contains, it is precisely the same, which will apply to children's stations. I want to highlight two things. You will allow me to invoke the debate when L.4674 was being discussed at the beginning of March, when the pandemic wave was coming and there was a dialogue between Parliamentary Representative Karathanasopoulos, Minister of the Interior, Mr Theodorikos, on what will happen if the schools are closed. That was when it was announced that measures will be taken for all parents who have children at school and who will be closed. Indeed, once these educational structures have been closed, we have introduced a new licence category, a special licence. At a minimum cost of the normal leave of the worker, he could remain at home in order to be close to his child on the days that he did not have a school. The vast majority of parents with children up to 3 high school made use of this measure, and this measure continues and now exists for the rest of the school year. Also, because they open up schools, but do not open the entire day's primary school and preschool, parents can also use reduced hours to get away from their service in order to pick up the child, since it will not work the entire day. So, now and now, and for September, which is currently uncertain, because we still do not have all the epidemiological data, we will examine and proceed on the basis of the recommendations made by the experts. I assure you, however, that we will do everything we can to ensure the health of children, of course, of their parents and of course of the teachers employed in these structures. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Now, for the second question. We had said, in the run-up to the election, and the Prime Minister himself, a target, is no child outside the junior station, which is an ambitious plan and which we are working hard to implement, how? We are giving the opportunity to develop new kindergartens. In fact, there is a provision to ratify the act of legislation which is currently being discussed in the committee of Parliament, in the committee responsible and on Friday in plenary. We are giving the municipalities the opportunity to move rapidly towards adapting children's stations to the new regulatory framework, such as fire safety, such as the conditions imposed by the Presidential Decree. At the same time, the programme for the Harmonization of Family Life continues next year, which was funded for the school year 2019-2020, with a total of EUR 279 million. They used about seventy - two thousand applications of which about fifty - six thousand were received. We also move through the new "Antonis Tritsis", as well as with any other tool we have in building and restoring new kindergartens. We want and encourage the municipalities to go ahead, which is the case, even to pay the value of expropriation, to go to children's stations. Many of them may also be integrated into ESRB programmes if they combine bioclimatic data and related data. So we're moving on coordinates. We are moving on methodically and I would say that we are moving forward in order to cover more and more families, people's families, because they need more. We are even considering the possibility - there is an important asterisk concerning the actual capacity of children's stations, if there are the same measures for the coronary, for the new year - to see how the children of the public officials excluded from this call can also be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u96	Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u97	Minister, targets can be set by everyone. And the previous government had the same goals as you said, that is, all children being at the children's stations, making new kindergartens and saying. The reality, however, is quite different. And here's exactly where you close your eyes. And I say this because last year the programme "Family and Professional Life Harmonization" covered a hundred fifty-five to sixty-six thousand children, left out of seventeen thousand fifty children of what they had applied for, with 270 million funding. The number of children finally covered is sub-chapter of real needs. Approximately four hundred thousand years of age are estimated to be necessary in preschool structures. You realize how big the difference is. In addition, this programme does not only concern the needs of young people of pre-school age. This includes the operation of the CIDs and CDIs - AMEs which also fall short of the municipalities. All the evidence shows that instead of the money that comes from overtaxation of the people's family, they return to expanding and strengthening public structures so that they provide public, free, upgraded scientific care, they end up aiming at strengthening the private sector, even turning parents into customers of special pre-school treatment. Features in Attica: The private sector for the years 2017-2019 outweighs structures and numbers of children, compared to the public sector that constantly shrinks. The second issue is, in addition to the absolute figures, that there is a great deal of anisometry at the age offered. So the younger the child is, the less likely she has to find a place, even with the coupon in her hand, as baby care is more expensive. And surely it can't be solved by stacking children, as it happens in older ages. It requires multiple financing, care, suitable spaces, more staff, and that is why it has never been hierarchised by any government. I would like to mention to you that in sixty-one municipalities in the country there are no baby stations and thirty-one there is twice as much demand as the places available. The third issue that arises is in the process of certifying children's stations. You realise that this certification is yes, it modernises the licensing data, but on the other hand closes children's stations, because they do not meet the conditions, thus reducing the available positions even further. In relation to what you said about the communication on the functioning of children's facilities - and I shall conclude, Mr President - and I shall conclude by a moment, like these announcements - the social distance to these ages, at least in the middle of a pandemic, that is to say, it is dangerous to invoke the individual responsibility of parents in this matter too. Measures to rotate childcare facilities require substantial support measures for parents, especially those who work in the private sector and are forced to stay at home, to keep their children, because they belong to vulnerable groups, or because there are people in the home who belong to vulnerable groups. This means that the granting of a special licence must continue without any withdrawal of a normal licence. For all this, the absence of government intervention is obvious. You also did not tell us in the protology - I suppose you will say something in the denology - on the issue of delay, to tell us about the amount of funding to meet the needs that are growing in these circumstances. So please, Mr Minister, you give very clear and concrete answers. We are in a phase that parents need to know, society needs to know what is going to happen with children's stations, CIDs and CIDs, and the number of posts and the fate of the staff employed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u99	In the next few days there will be communications - to start with - on the new programme for the next school year, where the numbers will be announced, I always point out to the asterisk of the functioning of the children's stations, the rules of operation and the precautions against the spread of the coronary. Each year, unfortunately, only eighty - five, eighty - six thousand children are born. So, at the ages of zero to four, it is grossly to say that it is three hundred, three hundred, sixty thousand in all children up to four years of age, given that the vast majority of municipalities now have two-year-old pre-school education. So four-year-olds go to kindergartens now and not to kindergartens in most of the country. Of these, therefore, it is covered by about 50%. It is a number that needs to be increased, and we need to set a target, because I am in favour of the objectives, and we need to do projects to implement the targets, get to the highest possible level. There are too many parents who, for example, mother often does not work or in any case do not want to be sent to a nursery. Obviously, we cannot force them to send their children there, but what we can, is to have them do so if they want to. In the next few days, then, the new programme for the school year 2020-2021 will be announced. The cofinancing will continue, which gives us the possibility of extending the contracts of the already under contracted officials. We've already discussed their perpetualization. I will tell you that the Constitution forbids them to be permanent. You will tell me that the New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK voted for the Constitution and did not hear the proposal of the JRC to change. We've been through it many times. I think we have learned each other the arguments. In any case, therefore, the staff, if the programme is co-financed, will continue to offer their services by extending a contract. Incidentally, as has been discussed recently in plenary in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, we will see how special care will be taken for cleaners after the school year 2021-2022, and see a stable need for this to be covered in the most effective way. As far as the directives for nurseries are concerned, I repeat that directives will be given through a circular which will be adopted today and, in any case, before the operation of nurseries. We are already in cooperation with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, its President, Mr Papastergiou, for their operation, taking into account the special measures for cleanliness, which need to be increased and the tools given by the Ministry through recent legislation, such as the recruitment of four-month contracts, which can be worked out for a year in the cleanliness of children's, infants' stations or school units and the rest of the three months, if the municipalities so wish and make a four-month contract, to be involved in the cleanliness of indoor areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u100	We conclude with the third under No 727/24-5-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Kritona Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "By the responsibility of the mayor, the social turmoil at the Stayata Volos". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry I don't see the Minister here once again. I've never seen him in a timely fashion, at least not the ones I'm presenting, even though there's too much for your ministry. It would be a good thing if he came from the House at some point. You know that very well. It concerns public opinion too much. We have a mayor at Volos, who not only took a source from a village that supports its survival, establishment and creation for the last three hundred years on this source, not only linked this village to a rustled network, not only took it to privatize this source, but swears the inhabitants with phrases that I can't even describe, because the President will delete them from the Minutes, but I will say how he closes: 'If they are guys, let them come face to face'. I don't mention the scumbags he tells them. At the same time, he curses and anyone who supports these people, whether they are artists or the hundred and fifty artists who signed texts, calling them "various Filipinos" and various others. This behaviour can no longer be tolerated by the official state. Here, too, you have responsibilities since you've been supervising administration as the Ministry of Local Government. You have responsibilities to put a stop to this process and you have responsibilities to put a stop to Beu administration. Mr Beos himself has been in bankruptcy for eight years. He's taken over irrigation, can't get it done and returns it to the inhabitants, to the municipality. People can't water their fields. People can't drink from their sources. This disaster in this municipality, with the aim of privatization, must be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u103	Dear Mr Arseni, allow me to tell you only with all due respect, that you are making a great mistake. The Ministry of Interior shall not supervise the OTAs. Local Government Organisations under Article 102 of the Constitution have administrative and financial autonomy. Fortunately, we don't oversee them. There are bodies responsible for the control of the decisions of the ATT, but the Ministry, the Minister or the State Secretary for Home Affairs does not do so. It's made by the specific organs. Imagine, with the "A" mayor, we could do supervising and passing everything, what he wanted with the "B" mayor, who is not good or does not make us look like, not pass them. On the substance, and because it is a purely local case and a clear case involving the self-government of the municipalities and regions, I will submit to the Minutes two documents, firstly the reply of Mayor Volos, Mr Beu, on what you have put in your question and secondly, a letter from the Region of Thessaly of the Directorate of Public Health and Social Security dated 31/3, in order to have a better picture. In closing, because I appreciate that there is no room for further intervention, I may personally like the style of a mayor or not like the style of another mayor. I cannot judge each other's style institutionally. It judges society, judges the citizens of Volos and the citizens of Volos and each municipality will be invited in October 2023 to re-elect their local authority. Mr Beos was elected from the first round a year ago with a percentage of 56%. That was the choice of the people of Volos. I think that the local authorities should speak with local communities at all times, should talk to local communities and resolve matters there and that the Member's question should not be addressed to the Ministry, which would raise specific issues. That's all I need, we'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u104	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have not told us what these documents are included. The tradition is that when we file a document, we say what it says. This is the tradition in Parliament, we use it in our word and we place it. Tell us what the mayor says. In any case at this moment, we have a huge issue of privatising Pelion's water. We have a huge issue! You're saying that societies should talk to the mayors. Have you read Mr. Beau's statements for the citizens? Have you read Mr. Beau's public statements about the citizens? Do you think this is a mayor with whom citizens can contact when he says to them, "if you guys are guys, come face to face"? Is that what you stand as a ministry? Do you welcome them? You have not even done one conviction for all that has been said in public. Make a political condemnation, I invite you to rescue your dignity. Screaming your hands just against such phenomena, I think it also characterizes you and the Mitsotakis Government. If you find that there's something distorting in Mr. Beau's function, tell us, because so far you haven't said anything. You only told us that it was elected by democratic procedures. You said nothing about what is happening with water management, nothing about what is happening with the health of citizens and access to a public good, nothing about what is happening about the intimidation they are experiencing. I invite you to take a position because, in fact, it is a phenomenon that we have not seen its worst. Social peace at Volos is under threat. And you have a political responsibility for that. You have to give your own stigma too. But you wash your hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u106	Before giving the floor to the Secretary-General, I would like to say this, as a result of my role as President-in-Office. You were right, Mr Arsenis, that you do not know what the documents say. I took a look. For example, Mr Beu's document has sixteen points. You realise that if he read sixteen points, the Minister wanted five to six minutes. But you can take both documents and come back on the basis of these documents. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. You were very aggressive and I can't understand why. Did we appoint Mr. Beo? Has the government come and appointed him, as a president to a legal person governed by public law? And what about the Ministry of Interior, judge of conduct? The behavior is judged by the citizens. If these citizens consider themselves affected, there are obviously legal and legitimate ways of finding their right and defending their interest. On the basis of my character - we know each other - I do not do such things, but that is a personal appreciation. Mr. Beos, he has a specific course, a specific past, was elected for a second term of Mayor in Volos. Anyone who considers himself to be affected by his actions, as regards the part of the decisions may appeal to decentralised administration, may appeal to the Committee referred to in Article 152 to a second degree, and if he considers that he is not there to find his point of view, the administrative courts are there to judge and judge as to what actually applies to the public interest. With regard to the issue of personal assault - which may have happened or have not happened according to what we have seen - whoever is affected, and there are certain people who may have been affected, and by name, can well find their right to justice by appealing to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S1-commons.u109	With the agreement of the House at 11:15 the sitting is closed for today, Wednesday, 27 May 2020, at 12.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: discussion and decision on applications for waiver of immunity from Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
