ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Tourism: 1. ‘Creation of the Cooperation Protocol to Tourism Cruise between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Tourism of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Ministry of Energy, Trade, Industry and Tourism of the Republic of Cyprus’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in the field of tourism’. 3. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Republic of Kazakhstan for cooperation in the field of tourism’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. they may take the floor for those parliamentary representatives who object to the ratification of contracts for five minutes if they so wish and provided that the President of the Parliament does not speak. The vote on all three conventions will take place at the end of the debate separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Mr. Villardo, will you speak for the third sentence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u3	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u4	Mr Katsotis will speak and then Mr. Villards will speak. Please, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The Government of New Democracy today brings together two protocols of cooperation in tourism with Kazakhstan and Portugal and an agreement with Egypt and Cyprus on cruise tourism. Of course, there has been a lot of discussion at the level of Chiefs on the issue of tourism and how this has contributed to the spread of the pandemic. The agreement on cruise tourism with Egypt and Cyprus is part of the single strategy of the bourgeoisie, the alliances it chooses to ensure its interests in an area that is densely dense, which is exacerbated by the objections to the sovereign rights of countries by questioning international law, options that are part of the US geostrategic planning, NATO, the European Union with various cooperations, tripartite, quadripartite and others. Expresses opposition to, ruthless competition in the Eastern Mediterranean and the desire to make Greece a transit and energy hub in the region, objectively confronted with the plans mainly of Turkey's urban order. A separate part of these designs is the development of the cruise in the Eastern Mediterranean, centred on the Greek ports, which have also been developed in studies of the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises. The development of the Eastern Mediterranean cruise will benefit certain international monopolistic groups that operate internationally on the cruise together with large groups of tourism, domestic and international. The attitude of these groups is well known, of course, such as the 'TUI', which has already been mentioned here as making a payment stop to the hotel owners with whom it has cooperation and which are two thousand in Greece. This strategy is united and is implemented by the urban parties and their governments. In committee and in plenary today, I imagine, we will monitor the efforts of the New Democracy and SYRIZA to show the so-called differences in how tourism is managed through pandemic and who is signing the agreements and who is implementing them. The policy of the New Democracy and SYRIZA is so different that SYRIZA's MP Mr Giannoulis proposed a joint Minister of Tourism, as has been proposed for the health of a joint minister. We are not surprised by this position. Moreover, if necessary, the civil order will require that it become a government of a New Democracy - SYRIZA, as has happened in the past between the vast right and the corrupt PASOK. I read from the Minutes: 'We need to update the proposal for planning in tourism by extending the proposal for a joint acceptance of Minister for Tourism, Mr President, which could plan realistically rather than the logic of'seeing and doing' the necessary design for the tourism industry'. That's what SYRIZA MP said. The priority is the operation of the capitalist economy and not the protection of people's lives from pandemic. The profits of the major business groups have become a criterion for managing the pandemic by the government, but also by other urban parties. And that also applies to SYRIZA, who is now surprised at the attitude of 'TUI', while invoking it when it was a government to highlight its success in tourism. The controversy about the opening up of tourism and the protocols implemented are revealing the priority of the government, but also of the parties in the bourgeoisie. What did the Head of Tourism of SYRIZA Mr. Notopoulou say on the occasion of the government's decision? He said at the time: "Because of the government's frugalism, the country's tourism goes into the excerpt. The Ministry of Tourism has literally made the last moment compulsory to complete a special form for visitors from abroad and Greek tourism is "washing" the reactions. The cancellations are literally in only five of Germany, Czechoslovakia and France. The Swedish are being informed at the last minute - and while they have booked tickets and booked a hotel - they will not travel to Greece until further notice. The new government surprise and alalum led to further limitations of arrivals in the most critical phase of this year's tourist season, defaming the country once again internationally. What was SYRIZA asking for then? Because we can't forget them. He asked the government to make health and other protocols even more elastic, precisely on the basis of the interests of business groups. They were and are with the Government of the New Democracy on the same line, the protection of the interests of the bourgeoisie, on whose behalf they play the health of the people in dice. Besides, for the current situation in the public health system with the great shortcomings SYRIZA has a great responsibility, having served exemplarily the policy of commercialisation and privatisation. Their current attempt to convince them that with another responsible management they can very much reconcile the interests of capital with the needs of the people is nothing more than another hand of assistance given by SYRIZA to the Government and the capital. Gentlemen, the question is not who signes and who implements the agreements, as was stated in the committee, but who is signed and who is benefiting from their implementation. Mr. Theochari, in your position you said that the JRC is against transnational cooperation. Let us make this clear as a JRC: the JRC is not contrary to transnational agreements. We have also told the committee that the agreements made by the urban state with the urban governments do not concern people and their needs. They are to serve the needs of the urban classes of the Contracting States to broaden their scope of action in various sectors of the economy, as well as in tourism, by promoting their business and geostrategic interests, as the Minister in the Committee noted. From transnational agreements, workers do not expect an improvement in their living conditions. On the contrary, the consequences of our country's deepest involvement in the imperialist designs and greater the deterioration of their position, of all their terms of life, will be heavy. These agreements relate to purely business groups active in tourism. They make use of the friendly investment framework, all kinds of privileges and incentives, the cheap labour force for the optimal return of invested funds. Really, what does Kazakhstan, Portugal and Greece have to gain from investment in their respective countries? Is it going to be a job with built-in rights? Workers in our country, particularly in foodism - tourism and culture, live the consequences of reactive, irreversible overthrows. In a period of great growth both PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA have made claims of business groups with a deterioration in the position of employees, with great reversals of income, working conditions. Now, under the pretext of pandemic, New Democracy scans what was upright. By legislative acts you have squandered wages, generalized elastic work, you have even exempted employers from paying the wage. You have abolished the collective agreements, you have introduced a maximum wage of EUR 534 and less than EUR 200. 12% of workers are paid for this amount. You have taken steps to abolish the Christmas gift on the licensees. You are building the basis for the implementation of the request by the Mediterranean partners to abolish the right to re-entry of seasonal workers. There is a demand that many of them be included in the collective agreement. The food workers from your politics were still in a more difficult position. But the government continues. He announced changes in working time from eight hours to ten hours, abolishing overtime pay, abolishing Sunday holiday. New weapons were also announced that shield business groups against any trade union and democratic freedoms left by abolishing the right to strike, by transforming trade union action into a specific offence. Every struggle to maintain and improve the conditions of work pay will be dealt with by redundancies, with sues, with endless persecution of those who raise their heads. Today’s workers are listening to Laskaris’s name, who in 1977 wanted by law to abolish the struggle of order. Today they are listening to Mr Brutsis, who, with greater fanaticism, attempts to do the same. Laskaris, if he lived today, would be depressed or suicide because Mr. Brutsis gets his reputation. Workers, self-employed, poor farms, all those who experience the dictatorship of capital, will never compromise and will never submit to this barbarism. No ban will pass. The working class will not be subjected to the bourgeoisie, as it has done for years now. She won't get her permission to organize her struggle. History has never justified those desires of the exploiters. The self-employed, the small owners are the victims of your policy. With little or no support measures there is a precedent for the activities of the one-stop shop and business groups in government policy. The amendment introducing specific financial support for businesses, hotel employers with over fifty employees, covering 80% of wage and non-wage costs, is activated within two years of the approval of the investment project, excluding the small ones, as well as the tourist agencies from which the aid is granted. Their position is in the fight to give a mass and decisive response from the workers and the people, to bring together forces to overthrow this policy. Many workers' organizations have already decided to coordinate their action with a strike on 26 November. The JRC supports these struggles and will be at the forefront of their development. Workers, the peoples in all the countries that accept the war of the dictatorship of capital have a way of getting rid of them so that they can with the labour power, the dynamic of scientifically-designed growth to exploit productive potential, move towards mutual and beneficial transnational agreements in all areas and, above all, satisfy their current needs. Despite the mistakes and weaknesses of existing socialism, the people in these countries have now lived with great achievements in every aspect of life, such as the right of everyone on holidays, which was a universal right, and today is a summer night dream for workers in capitalist countries. As a result of these achievements of the attack on the working class of the capitalist countries, it was the development of class struggle and the granting of rights from the working class, such as the free time and the licenses that are now being abolished. This policy must be overturned, and the only way is to coordinate the action of all those who are against this policy that leads them to poverty and impoverishment. The JRC shall be unfavourable in ratifying these conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. At this point, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade shall submit its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Application of additional measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the promotion of fair treatment and transparency for business users of online brokering services, arrangements for the interservice market control unit, the Competition Committee, the functioning of the market and other provisions’. Mr. Villards has the floor for five minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have stressed in committee, at this time discussing the ratification of SYRIZA's contracts to promote tourism when, as stated in the seventh assessment, it has caused the present wave of pandemic and contributed revenue to our economy which will not even cover the cost of Lockdown, under EUR 3.5 billion, is rather oxime. While we have no reason to believe Mrs Bakoyannis that we have been forced to open the borders by our partners and by the airlines or by Mr Georgiadis' respective statements that the government has fallen out. Starting from the cruise and contract with Cyprus, as well as with Egypt, we said that according to INSETE, our country's revenue from the cruise in 2019 was EUR 533 million with two million nine hundred, thousands of such tourists. So the average expenditure per tourist was only 185 euros. Therefore, it does not make any special sense for Greece, since it has to stop the model of cheap tourism that simply abuses our infrastructure without corresponding revenues. However, we voted in favour of it because it concerns countries with a strategic relationship in the Eastern Mediterranean. Continuing, with regard to the three conventions, we have only declared a reservation on Kazakhstan for two reasons: firstly, because it has nothing to offer us to tourism, but only to get from us and secondly, because it maintains friendly relations with Turkey, which even trains its army. As we have voted against the agreement with Qatar, we will also vote against Kazakhstan, which we said was signed on 24-9-2018, and it is also general to all others. However, it is paradoxical to calculate the General Accounting Office of the State of 90,000 euros annually in the Convention for Greece's participation in exhibitions in Kazakhstan and just 4.290 euros in it with Portugal, of which we could learn a lot, since with just 12 million eight hundred thousands of tourist arrivals in 2018, Greece had direct revenues of 17 billion euros, when Greece had only EUR 33.5 million in 2019. As we mentioned, twenty-six thousand Portuguese people visited Greece as tourists in 2017, when twenty-eight thousand Greeks in Portugal, while Portugal had two and a half million tourists who visited it for its wines only. What worries us now is that Greece is the only country that has been walking from evil to worse in the last 10 years and, unfortunately, today in the worst of times, with its GDP predicted at the levels of 2002 in 2020, but with its public debt of over 200%, when 2002 was at 98%. In Portugal’s example, while Greece’s GDP was higher before the memoranda, in 2019 Portugal was EUR 212 billion compared to just EUR 180.7 billion in Greece, despite the fact that Portugal in 2014 was before its total economic and social collapse because it had adopted, on the command of the Troika, the deadly memorandum policy. How did Portugal make it? He simply elected in 2015 a government that kept its electoral commitments and stopped the memorials, despite the blackmails of the European Union and especially of Germany. We will conclude with the request to the Minister to resolve the problem of 'TUI' following the catastrophe suffered by our hoteliers from 'THOMAS COOK'. Both of these companies are essentially German, both the 'THOMAS COOK' - in essence a subsidiary of 'TUI' - and the 'TUI', so a solution needs to be found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u8	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. A few words, of course, will be said today that most of us have already said so and it is a ratification process which does not favour the debate. I will raise a few issues, of course, with regard to these three agreements, but also with our country's overall strategy in the tourism sector that we are implementing. We continue to enrich the tourist product. That's exactly why we bring these agreements here. Our country must have a multidimensional tourism policy. It must place emphasis on multiple areas. No product has the luxury of leaving it aside, whether this is a more massive product, be it a higher income level, be it a product of the city, be it a product aimed at the elderly, be it a product aimed at younger tourists or families, or at individual, etc. So a country like ours, which is at the forefront of the world tourism industry, obviously needs to be active in all areas. We will continue to do so, we will continue to try new and other markets, new and different species, innovative as we can in some areas, and we will be following international trends elsewhere. Only in this way will we allow the flexibility and the possibility for the Greek tourist product to cope with all the bounces that we will inevitably see in front of us, because no road is stranded with rose petals. In this context, then, this kind of bilateral conventions must also be done. It must be done - and here I am referring to the objections on the part of Mr Villardos - because tourism is a bridge of understanding, a bridge of friendship. It must be done in particular with countries with which we may not have an agreement and a matching of views in other areas. Only then can we keep the bridges open when our country is blowing and putting a country of understanding, a country of stability, a country that promotes good neighbourliness. It must therefore do so in all these directions, for that very reason in the tourism sector. We are not bringing defence agreement here, defence cooperation, and we are bringing a cooperation in the field of tourism. There is another reason why we should make these agreements. There are many countries that come to us to get know-how, and when they do this our country creates a sense and a reality of superpower, escapes from its own, has extroversion, goes out, gives know-how, builds a dynamic that you never know in geostrategic and international relations when it will be useful to you. That is one reason why all three agreements must be voted on. A second reason, of course, is that the cruise agreement in particular - and I am obviously addressing it on the side of the JRC which does not vote on it - is an agreement that promotes international cooperation in our neighbourhood, in the Eastern Mediterranean, where we are going through what is currently especially going on. What else do we do? I'll say two, three words. Strengthen promotional actions. We've been doing it all this time. The EOT was strengthened, strategically directed, and implemented quickly. It is the first year that runs four different campaigns: the "Greece from Home" and the "Eternal Greek Summer" and the "Destination Greece". Health First!’ and now the Northern Aegean campaign "Greece for You" for the four islands of the North Aegean. It is recognised by abroad and it is important that our country strengthens its brand. You heard the news that our country in the special study of IPSOS is the fifth country in the world in the tourist brand this year. He's displaced the United States. We also have a balance of power and a plan. There's been a lot of talk. I am not going to continue this debate. It has been done for too many hours and part of this debate has been in relation to the opening up of tourism. But we hear it everywhere. We had a plan. We talked about it in committee too. It is pleasant to hear at WTM, in the report of England, at the IATA conference, which has just been held, discussing airlines with people of tourism, saying to us: "I wish all the other countries like you had opened. We'd be better." We support, we mediate as much as we can. I know the issue - it has been put before the Prime Minister's information - on payments. Obviously they are private agreements, where we do not have direct intervention or competence. A Minister cannot interfere with private two-company agreements. But at every opportunity we raise the issues of payments, we raise the issues of - let us say it from our point of view - abuse - put on everything you want to introduce - a dominant position and feel that to some extent we are listening to and improving any procedures for the sake of the Greek hotel. That's the maximum one could do. In other words, we are present and not absent. In the new year - and I close with it - we are taking initiatives at political level too. I am pleased that what we, as Ministry of Tourism, personally, as Minister of Tourism have said for at least two months about the use of rapid tests and we have created a concrete plan with a start-up, middle and finally now is getting adopted and being adopted more and more. I am beginning to hear it from the opposite of interlocutors and this will mean better days for tourism, in general and, of course, for Greek tourism. Finally, we continue with a great effort for the new year, the new year of advertising and advertising, the new year of the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution, the new year that one has to come to Greece, in our country, not only for the beauty, the sun, the sea, but also for the historical significance of the next year, the two hundred years. Finally, I say that I have heard and heard many wings talking about the collapse of Greek tourism. No, Greek tourism didn't collapse. He collapsed this old-fashioned form at times and those who put it with Greek tourism lose, thankfully, for the Greek people. Thank you very much and I invite everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Tourism is being declared a final one, and they will be voted on separately. We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Cooperation Protocol to Tourism Cruise between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Tourism of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Ministry of Energy, Trade, Industry and Tourism of the Republic of Cyprus". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u12	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u13	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Simplification of the Cooperation Protocol to Tourism Cruise between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Tourism of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Ministry of Energy, Trade, Industry and Tourism of the Republic of Cyprus’ has been accepted by a majority on the principle, articles and all, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u14	We proceed to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: 'Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in the tourism sector'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u16	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u17	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Creating the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Portuguese Republic on cooperation in the field of tourism’ was accepted by a majority on the principle, Articles and total and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u18	We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Republic of Kazakhstan for cooperation in the field of tourism". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u20	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u21	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Republic of Kazakhstan for cooperation in the field of Tourism’ was accepted by a majority in the principle of Articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u23	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-12-S2-commons.u24	With the consent of the House at 18.52 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 13 November 2020 at 09.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate
