ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing as follows: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 12 October 2020 that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: Question No 20/5-10-20 will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Niki Kerameos. The number 11/5-10-2020 and 19/5-10-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendonis. Question No 21/5-10-20 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Questions Nos 15/5-10-2020 and 23/5-10-2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Theodore Livano.’ We are starting the debate with the third under number 20/5-10-2020 on a second question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Democratic incomprehensible the measure of exclusion from the televised training of students participating in the occupations". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I really think I am expressing every democratic citizen, a parent, a student, when I say that the ministerial decision on telematics in schools that are in practice occupied with the absence of students who are considered to be inhibiting the educational process was really a shock for democracy. Minister, I say this because I have been listening to stories from Turkey by Mr Erdogan all this time when children who were fighting in Gezi Park about the right to keep that park area in fact were driven by Mr Erdogan, from their schools, their care centres, etc. I never thought that we could see such a prosecuting phenomenon, let alone the absence of teleworking, of any educational process, of the students who are judged to be blocking the educational process - and, obviously, there are photographs of the children who take possession - and therefore, to oblige them to lose order, to lose their admission to university, etc. This goes against our own Constitution that states precisely that children have an equal right to education. Because what you bring is that you introduce the concept that, based on the conduct, based on the beliefs of a child, this right to education will be judged. If anyone thinks that at the moment our schools are not working properly, and they should be more oligopoly, there should be more teachers, more cleanliness and protection, then this man, this student, will lose school year, lose admission to university. This is deeply undemocratic. The essence of this question is that I invite you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u3	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the question. Unfortunately, the issue of seizures has been topical in our country for decades. Lost course hours, material damage, social unrest, financial costs for the taxpayer and many other consequences. I do not know of any other civilised country in the world in which something similar is going on for so many decades, and I think that is something that needs to be deeply concerned with us. I would like to start by: I consider it very important for dialogue to take place with the whole educational community, with the bodies that represent, for example, teachers, pupils and for dialogue to take place, obviously by the central government and local government and other bodies and state actors that play a key role in the proper functioning of schools. However, dialogue with open schools is being conducted, with democratic methods. In your question, Mr Arsenis, you describe as "democraticly inconceivable" the pedagogical measure of absences during compulsory tele­vision. I will reverse the question: is it possible for a small minority - who, in fact, represents and by what procedures? - prevent the majority from having access to education, i.e. depriving a small minority of all pupils of the constitutionally protected asset of education? Is it negligible, in your opinion, that the occupations have the effect of losing lessons and then last year in which almost three months have we not been able to live in education? It should be noted that during the conquests we also saw pictures of condensation without masks, we saw more cases in schools in which protection and prevention measures were not applied. And after all, we had more schools in captivity than schools closed because of the coronary. And I ask you, Mr. Arseny. Who is most affected by this condition than by this pathogen? The economic and social weakest are affected. Why is it while the conquests take place? Private schools are progressing normally, extra-university courses as well. So who are the most affected? Those who do not have the opportunity to replace in any way, shall be affected to supplement the education and training process in any way. So, Mr President, we have chosen pedagogical solutions and pedagogical measures to deal with this particular and time-consuming phenomenon, which concerns a very sensitive group, the students. And we chose access to education. No-one is meant, Mr President, to lose access to education, in our view, because poor minorities decide to close a school. Required, therefore, for this tele­vision system to be accessible to those who hamper the operation of education. But they exclude themselves from training. They're doing a specific act and they're closing a school. They therefore prevent a public service from operating a school. But, to understand, what exactly do you propose? What a worthwhile code you want to give our young people, that it is normal to close a school, to interrupt a public service, to block a public service, to block a public service with an entrepreneurial energy, but rather to go a little bit side by side to take advantage of the benefits of this service? Mr. Comrade, I think he's touching the bullet of the paranoid. If all of this makes sense, democratically, self-evidently, simply, on a daily basis, then I am sorry but there is no common place. All of this seems incomprehensible, outright, unjust and unreasonable to us. This practice of seizures, which I would say most perpetuates as a habit and an annual practice and, unfortunately, sometimes appears to be based on political factions, must come to an end. And it is sad to see political groups ridiculing whatever concerns and concerns students may have. And unfortunately within these parties is yours. Your youth has made a statement that appears on your party's website and expressly says that you support the occupations. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you support unlawful actions that lead our students to be deprived of the valuable good of education. We are living in a modern state through a storm of international developments in the field of education. Instead of talking about the new challenges and how we will use our young people with more, more valuable supplies, instead of discussing, for example, how we will expand the skills workshops that we have started - robotic, volunteering, respect for others, respect for diversity, how we will expand workshops across the country - what are we talking about? About whether it's normal or not a school being occupied. To sum up, then, yes to dialogue, but with open schools. Because the worst schools of all are closed schools. In my dentistry, I'm going to go on with the rest of the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u5	Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, the big question is who your allies are now. You've got the students, you've got the parents, you've got the teachers. You say you want open schools for dialogue. And yet today when you met Oleme, you said no. When the meeting with OLEME took place, you said no to the nine requests put to you. That's what OLEME press release says. You are talking about the unprecedented occupation regime. Obviously, occupations are not something that should be normal in the school process. But in this particular case what do these children want? Are they asking for a vacation? Are they asking for fewer lessons? What do these kids want? They're asking for the protection of public health. They're asking for what the scientific community says. Minister, is there anyone in the Greek society who disagrees that we should now have fifteen students per class? You say it's impossible. However, there are proposals. If it were morning- afternoon shifts and extra teachers were hired, we could have these departments working today. You say no. You are not saying no to a proposal, but not to consider it. You displease these children when you make them follow a school procedure that endangers them, compromises their parents and grandparents at home. And your proposal is what? Shouldn't we hug the grandparents at home or something like that? As for the unprecedented phenomenon of having conquests, be a little clear. I don't know if you're reading the international press too. Last year all France had a huge wave of conquests. The concept of occupation exists in America and the Anglo-Saxon countries, it is simply called a strike. What's Greta herself doing? It's a school strike. So no matter what you think personally, don't try to convince us that this is a democratic and European given. The only corresponding example I have to give you for what you are doing is Turkey, Mr Erdogan. Tell me which country is your model, because we will be forced to believe that these are indeed the regimes. Now for telematics: Who will do, Mrs. Keramea, tele-education? Will the children in West Athens who don't have computers, who in the quarantine expect the schools to come the computers you promised and reached the trucks and gave them three computers per school and draw them a draw because they didn't know where to give them? Are they gonna do the PSA children that are all labs? How are the children in the PES, as well as the other laboratory lessons you mentioned? I urge you to stop the pretexts in sin and indeed withdraw this measure, restore social peace and listen to the children. There are ways at the moment schools operate with fifteen people, with fifteen students in class. I am not aware of the desirability of not listening to common sense, but whatever it may be, I would ask you to abandon it and to sign up to the common sense and the students who are currently asking for the protection of public health. These occupations have a unique objective, the protection of all of us from the coronary. Listen to the kids, so the school year can start and work properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u7	Mrs. Kerameau has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr Arseni, let me also inform the House that I have called the children in dialogue, I have asked them to come and talk with great pleasure. As I said, dialogue must be carried out and it must be done with all the actors and teachers and students, with all those representing members of the educational community, but it must be on the basis of democratic institutions. I've been calling them, and I'm very happy to talk to them. You have asked a question about the qualification of a student as sufficient or insufficient. Let's be clear. Telematics is, in fact, compulsory and, if there is a absence, it is taken into account for the limit of absenteeism, the hundreds of fourteen absentees per class, one hundred and fourteen as a general rule, exceptions exist. You say we withdraw this decision - you say it in your question - and we reject the distinction between the students on the basis of their own opinions. What thoughts, Mr. Arseny? These rhetoric belong to other decades and other political beliefs. Things are simple. In every favoured state there are rights and obligations, there are rules. These rules are being violated when one closes a school, blocks education and this act has very important consequences for other students and for society as a whole. For teachers, the educational community has made it clear that the replacement of lost teaching hours is compulsory. I have complete confidence in the teachers, Mr Arseni, that they perform their duties responsibly and with commitment. Television is a task to enable the state to ensure that all pupils have uninterrupted access to education. However, because you have also referred to the demands: I will obviously not refer to what has been seen from time to time in publicity and have nothing to do with the educational process, such as, for example, the question of militarisation, when and so on. Parts per more than twenty-five students: First of all, as we have made public, these departments in public schools, i.e. those with students over twenty-five students, are 3% of all of the country's departments. The decision of the experts, Mr Arsenis, was unanimous, to reopen schools in full composition, but with increased protection and prevention measures. It is true that every measure of prevention and protection does not apply the same way in every area, in every population group. For example, distance. And five kids put someone in one class, say, First High School, and the five kids, their natural tendency will be to come near each other. The mask is proved together with another sixteen and seventeen measures, which we have already announced since August, an extremely effective measure on the basis of the data so far - and I stress this - as the pandemic has evolved so far - and why am I stressing this? - obviously we are very careful every day of the pandemic, and this situation may change, but on the basis of today's data, schools are not the focal point. I'll tell you with numbers. We have twenty-seven schools in the country today closed. All schools are over fourteen thousand. Of the fourteen thousand we have twenty-seven, which is 0.19%. We've got over eighty thousand school divisions and out of eighty thousand, we've only got a hundred and eighty-six departments closed down, which is 0,22%. And all this, while cases in society are obviously increased. So this is the situation in our schools. Things may change - I have said this before - and we will not hesitate to update whatever measures are more stringent or more urgent, if the conditions make it possible and always in the context of the valuable guidance given to us by experts. The second point which sounds a great deal about teachers is the recruitment of teachers. Mr. Arseni, I want to give you some numbers. New assignments and substitutes for this year have exceeded forty - six thousand eight hundred thirty - four. Forty-four thousand, and we just got two thousand eight hundred special assistant staff. On SYRIZA, 2016 instead of forty - six thousand, twenty - two thousand, in 2017 twenty - six thousand, in 2018, thirty - four thousand. This year 46.8 and we're moving on. Why are we moving on? Because we cover every need, as it turns out. For example, there are teachers who belong to high-risk groups, and yes, we must protect them. That is why we are constantly making and will, as long as this pandemic is in progress, and additional recruitments, in order to cover our teachers, to shield the educational community and to meet needs. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall now close, Mr President, a little bit of your tolerance. You spoke, Mr Arsenis, about the outcome of the shift in the morning. I can assure you that we have studied all this for many months now. What problems do you have with this solution? First, what will these working parents become about the children who are going to school this afternoon? Aren't they going to work? What about the working parents? Second, what about the full-day school? The full-day school, beyond a very important supply to the whole educational process, is particularly important in the pandemic period. Why? Because, as hard as it sounds, it helps reduce the contact of our students with the most vulnerable groups, with grandparents and grandparents. What about the full-day school if the shift takes place, as you say, 8-12 and 12-4? Thirdly, what will be the teachers who go to more than one school? Fourthly, in this scenario which has been discussed 8-12 and 12-4, what will be the rest of the hours? A child in the Third High School who is preparing for all-Greek and has seven hours, how exactly will the other needs be covered? I will conclude with this. You spoke about OLEME, and we did have a meeting last week. Did Olehem say that this government approved over 98% of the demands for a few parts? He approved 98% both in GLP and in PSAL. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. We move on to the debate of the third under number 19/5-10-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Department of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Invisible and cultural unions for the Government at the time of pandemic". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mr. Arsenis has the floor for two minutes. Let's all make an effort to be in time. It is not your fault, Mr Arsenis, nor Mrs Kerameo. Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, there are terrible gaps at the moment in the operation - and the corresponding decisions are missing - of all kinds of clubs and especially cultural clubs. I have here in front of me the text of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Cultural Cretan Associations, but it is also the subject of other organizations. What is lacking is the guidelines on how these unions will operate now, which are unions, which have a number of activities and have been in the void and during the outbreak of the pandemic now, but also in the period of their decline during the summer months. Also, there is a huge gap in what happens with antiquities in the cultural clubs, with the result that they remain headless. Indeed the intention of this question is to find a common way to solve the issue, as they are activities that are very important to local communities, if you want social capital in local communities, where people come together in the neighborhoods and can develop cultural exchanges very useful, but they are, if you like, a small economic resource for local communities. To keep these clubs headless, without any guidance for their operation, I think he's doing a multiple evil. You will, I believe, agree with me. I hope you're here to find a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u11	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for the question. As you well know, cultural clubs include a wide range of activities. Of these activities, a small part is adjacent to the activities supervised by the Ministry of Culture and Sport only with regard to purely cultural activities, whereas the activity of these associations usually includes a number of events such as fairs, excursions, New Year's Pipe, i.e. activities that have nothing to do with the Ministry of Culture. In other words, the Ministry is not responsible for these associations, hence the fact that the care to relaunch their activities in June 2020 was made by a decision of the Ministry of Development and not by a decision of the Ministry of Culture. So with regard to your question about the organization or non-institutional organisation of cultural associations for the election of their administrative boards, you can understand that this is a purely formal, internal administrative procedure provided for in the statutes of each cultural association. Therefore, the question of the permissible or non-executive assembly and the election of a board at this time and in conjunction with the existing epidemiological conditions is a matter of a purely institutional nature and process of each club. It should be in the light of and depend solely on relevant health protocols and measures to ban collective meetings, as announced by the EGE and Civil Protection. Therefore, the holding of meetings for elections at that time is not only a matter of cultural activity in order to meet the responsibilities of the Ministry of Culture, but, given that there is a question of a mass meeting, which is currently confronting the decisions and measures taken by the creditors, each cultural association must take account of these guidelines. As regards your second question, concerning the non-inclusion of cultural societies in the special-purpose compensation scheme, you can see that this is a procedure for acts of ministries and the relevant jurisdiction. The word 'cultural' next to 'physical', of course, creates a confusion, but that does not mean that there is no clear definition of competence. Now, refer to your question about the current costs of cultural unions. If current costs mean the monthly and fixed operating expenses of the associations, I would just like to inform you that the Ministry of Culture cannot cover such costs, as the members of the cultural associations themselves, of these associations, which constitute civil Code associations, have and have the responsibility under their statute to contribute to such fixed costs. To sum up, therefore, I would like to reiterate that the process of integration of cultural associations into the special purpose compensation scheme is a measure and an action that we are happy to discuss, but which, today, with the data we have, does not concern the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. In my dentistry, I'll tell you what the Ministry of Culture does for these kinds of unions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u13	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, yes, we are talking about cultural unions, whose activity, the main task - for citizens to know too - is to provide seminars, courses, events on the history and culture of the place, to learn traditional instruments and to learn traditional dances. It seems to be enough in the context of the Ministry's responsibilities. You have been sent two letters. They have been addressed to you and the Minister of Health and to Mr. Hardalia. So I think it is worth answering them and, if you think that the settlement of these issues of cultural unions evade the responsibility of the Ministry, I think they can answer another relevant ministry, such as the Ministry of Development you mentioned. I'm not sure he's evicting. I think they are the responsibility of the Ministry, at least in terms of how they can function properly, on the basis of the specifications. There are too many ambiguities. People ask you to give them interpretative instructions, more detailed instructions for their own object, which is complex. There are too many local cultural clubs in every municipality of the country. I think it is worth giving an answer to these two letters. I have the letters from the Cretan unions. I am sure there are letters from the Pontian clubs, Asia Minor and so on. The question of antiquities is that it is a question of unions' statutes in substance. But they ask for an interpretative circular. There is also the question of extending the existing presidencies. And they mention this because there was a March with april special care to extend the operation of the old presidencies, as there was this unprecedented wave of the coronary. That was interrupted after. There's a void there. This gap asks that you fill in any way you choose, provided this way is clear. Because at the moment, vagueness and undeterminedness really create a dam in the functioning of these important cells of culture locally, in every society, in every municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u15	Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u16	Mr Arsenis, first of all, I would like to say that there are indeed many letters that have come from various associations and unions at the Ministry. As far as I know from the services, the services have already responded and given instructions where they can give. I repeat that it can in the statutes of a union be the activities you have mentioned, but that is not all. There are usually many more of these kinds of activities. In any case, what they are asking - and it seems from their letters - is to cover operating expenses. I repeat, the Ministry of Culture cannot finance operational expenses. On the contrary, in January 2020 at the Ministry, we issued eleven invitations, aimed at civil non-profit companies and cultural associations, through the register of cultural actors. These eleven calls have already completed the selection process. My own funding decisions have already been made and around 8,500,000 euros have been channelled to these categories of cultural actors, including many cultural clubs and cultural clubs, but for concrete actions. In addition, in addition to this money in January and these notices, in March 2020, on the occasion of the pandemic and the lockdown, we received another call for digital actions to enhance the cultural activity of operators and cultural associations. According to the committee that did the evaluation, decisions have been made. We are talking about an additional EUR 1,200,000 in eighty-three players. I mean, in other words, that the Ministry of Culture can do this on the basis of its competence, through its register of Cultural Bodies. Also, the last ones were two more. In other words, we have already reached the fourteenth notices. Eighty-one actions and equivalent bodies were also supported with an amount of 688,000 - and cultural clubs and unions - precisely for their actions. What we can do is what we do. And especially in 2020, and regardless of the pandemic, it had started very quickly. From there on, assembly issues are really matters relating to meetings and for which meetings have already been instructed, not by the Ministry of Culture, but by the relevant Ministry responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u17	Yes, sir. However, they are real problems, Minister. Not you, but maybe the Justice Department or someone else could say that they've been continuing presiding for another year or something. We continue with the seventh under number 11/5-10-2020 on the second question of Parliamentary B3' South Athens Department of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ralia Christidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Unrupt financial destruction of the people of music". The Minister will answer Mrs Styliani Mendoni. Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in the latest announcements by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Hardalia, a percentage of completeness was announced in the live music areas of only 30%. This is an extermination protocol! Really, how do you think the spaces, the artists, the workers, their families will survive? All these, Minister, have been jobless people since last March. Really, how do you think they're gonna get through this? Do you and the Ministry not understand that the measures taken to operate these sites are not viable for any production? No musical space, Minister, can survive fully with 30%. These measures do not only affect artists, only workers, only technicians in these areas. The entire artistic activity of this country is being affected. You'll leave burnt land! And it cannot be pointed out that these measures are unreasonable. You create professionals of two or three categories and choose you and the Ministry who are important and who you think should survive, who will survive and who will not. It's like you consider artists as "hobbies" that they don't live by their work and they and their families. And you know what? In a live music area one per three places may sit. Right? That's right. And at a theater, too. But on one plane he can sit next to each other. In spaces, i.e., theatre, the musical spaces, the virus is stuck. The planes and the ships don't stick the virus, which is one side by side. Students are allowed to sit next to each other. They don't stick there! And, you know, it's a political decision to survive only those who have the economic surface to last ten months without work or leave their premises, their shops closed for as long as necessary, unemployed. Let's see what's going on abroad. In France, the closed areas were opened with a quota of 50%. There, in France, are any other sanitary protocols there? Is medical science working there differently? You initially considered it unnecessary not to make a statement about these measures. Then on Saturday, after the general outcry, you came out to tell us on TV that 30% is a success. You applauded the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skulakakis, for having secured the allocation of posts. And we ask you: what is the level of this budget on the substance? Where will it be given? What timeline? Is it going to be given to the spaces? Will workers be given to these places? Will they be given to the artists? Where will it be given? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Is it possible on October 12 that nothing specific has been announced, while you knew as Ministry and all Greece that pandemic would be more difficult in the autumn and that things would be more difficult in winter? How is it possible, while no specific data are available, for someone to plan rehearsals or close partnerships? How will one be able to deal with his art when he hears empty promises from the previous March and has become like a beggar without a trace of dignity? And we ask: are you aware that throughout the summer everywhere - and not only in Athens, not only in Attica - few festivals and few events were announced and that those of them were then cancelled? Do you know that? Did that bother you? How many musicians and performers have received the allowance of EUR 800? Don't you know they're too few? Do you not know, too, that infinitely people have received the allowance of EUR 534? Tell us some specific evidence, how many people have taken it. And invoke the famous Artists' Register, which is until 15 October. So promise money to people who are already without income seven consecutive months. You promise them something that you could have given in much earlier. And all these months you have insisted on denying a universal demand for the whole sector, which are measures to support collective management organisations, as most European countries have done. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. And for people to understand, not to say and nobody understands: When a creator cannot play concerts because of a pandemic, he is deprived of 40% of his income. Instead, for concrete and effective measures, you are giving vague promises, without any timetable, and you have reached the point where you can tell us that you cannot give money to musicians and performers because they have been working 'black' for all these years. You are targeting, in other words, and you are devoting yourself to an entire industry. Why and with what right? If that really is what you think, Minister - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - as Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture in previous years and as Minister, then we ask you what steps have you taken to prevent anything from happening so that this does not happen? Did you work with the Ministry of Labour? Did you work with the APRC? Or does it just suit you to invoke this in order to renounce your responsibilities and your ministry for the inertia and indifference you've shown so long? You don't understand - and it's not about opposition, it's about a cry of an agony of thousands of people - that this is causing anger in the artistic world or that doesn't interest you either? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u19	Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u20	No, I'll talk more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u21	Of course. I'm just talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u22	You say so, Mr President. Thank you very much. I shall respond, despite the fact that 4/5 of the speech, as has been said, has nothing to do with the content of the timely question, as has been said. Just point it out. It is clear that the health crisis has created unprecedented conditions for all, which this government has successfully managed, promoting the protection of public health and, at the same time, strengthening all professional branches affected by the pandemic. Thank you, Mrs Christidou, for giving me again the opportunity to recall and refer to the initiatives taken by the Government and the Ministry of Culture to address the unfavourable economic consequences of the pandemic in the field of culture. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government has created an integrated management strategy to support affected artists and artists, to take development measures for the cultural and creative industries and to produce and disseminate high quality content. We did not want a mountainous cultural summer, and that is why we created the institution "All Greece one Culture", where more than forty-eight thousand people held positions for the two hundred seventy performances, of which few were cancelled, in forty-three regional units of the country. And, of course, we don't want a winter without artistic arts and cinema. So we managed to combine, despite what you say, the protection of public health with the operation of winter theaters, music and cinema. And this is reflected in the very recent measures announced by the government. Despite what you mentioned in your question, his culture and his employees have never been an exception to the government. The people of culture have never been invisible to us. As for what you said in your question that they were accused of working 'black', I say to you quite simply that my phrase was deliberately distorted and isolated in the context of my reply to your colleague here, from this Step, and for that reason the Minutes of this House are available to everyone. I have said that there is a matter of black work, which creates problems in the possibility of compensation, and that must be cured. Since April we have been talking about black and gray work in culture. For example, we know very well that musicians and actors do many rehearsals for a concert or for a performance. These rehearsals are usually uninsured and unpaid. However, when it comes to linking days with a subsidy, these people are without wages and badges. They may be working for months, but they can only get one sign. This is a black job and all this needs to be regulated. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the Government and the Ministry of Culture has created an integrated management strategy as soon as the lockdown emerged, from March, and in the field of culture. All measures were followed horizontally. But civilization has its peculiarities. The immediate measures were to support workers and businesses in the sector, but also to stimulate the market through development measures. In particular, in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance and Labour, the employees and the professionals of culture have been integrated since March into the government's horizontal measures. According to the Ministry of Finance data, more than thirty thousand employees and fourteen thousand individual enterprises joining the CAR of culture are entitled to financial support of more than EUR 35 million plus tax relief and exemptions that are entitled, such as all our fellow citizens who have joined these measures. It is worth noting that the integration of the CADs of culture into horizontal support measures took place rapidly, at the direct initiative of the Ministry of Culture and in close consultation, is understood, with the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, proceeded with subsequent moves to cover the cases of workers and specificities of the cultural sector. The result of this effort was to extend as far as possible the periphery of the beneficiaries using each legal instrument. In this context, it was specifically used for artists and for any other category of workers up to the criteria for insurance, i.e. the criterion based on the presumption of minimum living, which corresponds to incomes of EUR 2,048 per year. This means, in practical terms, that an employee in the field of culture with the above income per year became the beneficiary of the special allowance. With the above measures, a total of more than EUR 25 million was channelled for employees and civil servants, together with all the other categories of workers in the industry. Civilian workers are included in the wider support plan for all sectors. There was no exception for the past, there was no exception for the present and if necessary for the next period. In addition to the above, new institutional intervention, and in particular Article 20 of Law 4722/2020, new support measures have been introduced for the months of September and October for cultural professionals. In particular, the above provision stipulates that beneficiaries of the special purpose compensation are, for the period from 1-9-2020 to 31-10-2020 artists, creators and professionals of art and culture registered until 15 October 2020 on the special electronic platform of the registry, i.e. the "ERGANI" of the Ministry of Labour. If necessary, time limits will be extended to cover both of the following months, November and December. In addition, the Ministry of Culture and Sport issued a special support programme for AMKE, including many of the music sites of EUR 2,000 for each one, including, as I said, many of them related to music. In addition to this, the Ministry of Culture and Sport provided 1.5m euros from its resources in the regions, in order to make it available for concert events in the course of this year. In conclusion, I note that the Ministry of Culture ensures that an institutional exception is introduced for the live spectacle and hearing in every regulation seeking to suspend or restrict other kinds of events, so that there is no doubt that such acts do not take on live spectacles and listens. And that, because we absolutely believe that the theatre, music and cinema in difficult times, like pandemic, must be in our lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u23	Mrs Christidou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully to your speech for six minutes. From the six minutes, and specifically from the six minutes and thirty-five seconds that you spoke, you only spoke half a minute about what I asked you about the musicians. You told us about millions, you told us about 25 million, and you told us about thirty thousand people. You told us, in general, about artists. I'm talking specifically about musicians. And you specifically mentioned 1,5 million euros in municipalities and regions. Good. So let me tell you, if you do not know, that I have attended your interview and your speech in Kastoria, which you are talking about, the EUR 72 billion that the European Union has promised us. How much do they account for in Greece? How much is our quota? That's $1 billion, 2 billion? We don't know, nobody knows. So you're telling us this number of atrocities, 1.5 million, and you're telling us that you gave it to municipalities and regions to become musical cultural events. Didn't you know that all summer, from spring to summer, little was announced and by these little ones announced, most of them, if not all, were canceled? You don't know that? Nor do you know that this money has been kept by municipalities and regions? Not only was money not given to people in need of work, but it has already been used to give money to municipalities and regions. You told us - we have heard that too - that you will make a campaign in order to convince the world - that was the epilogue of your speech and I wish it were true - that the theater and the cinema, that is, the lively spectacle - are absolutely safe and that they are absolutely necessary for our country. In other words, you will give money to channels, advertisers, as was the case with the "Pecha List" with absolute opacity to "weigher" friends. But you won't give artists. On the one hand, you say that live music is safe, and on the other hand, the 30% thresholds are respected, which is nowhere - but nowhere - imposed. Do you think that the public will respond? In addition, with regard to the fact that other measures of completeness are followed for aircraft, for public transport and for musical scenes, you have not answered us. Regarding the measures to support copyright and collective management organisations, which most European countries have done, you refused to commit yourself. You did not explain that to us. You are, indeed, in contact with the finance ministries. It is October 12th and even "think" for the people of music who are seven months in unemployment! Timetable, Minister! Tell us a timeline, in other words when you will announce the subsidy. For the black job you had invoked, I accept that there has been some misunderstanding and that it has been isolated, although I have heard you with my ears. But, okay, since you tell us today, it's good. I'll tell you the numbers for the black paper you've invoked. I'm going to talk about how many people from the music field got an allowance. You generally talked to us about thirty thousand people. You told us in general and not for the hearing in particular. The main thing is - and I close with that, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - that greater unemployment has been created and that, unfortunately, there will be even more. There will be a shrinking of artistic creation, of music production in the next few months. With the measures announced, no one - but no one - will take the risk, Minister, to announce partnerships and artistic projects. And you know that very well. Nobody! Please tell me a man of music, a collectiveity, a union that found these measures positive. I ask you not for any other reason, but just because I want to give a parliamentary voice to all those people who are struggling around what you are planning to do. I want you to tell me very specifically, because you have forced people of music since the memorial years, with government decisions, when you were still Secretary General at the Ministry, to have 'blocked' and to pay a 650 euro trade tax, this 'blooded block'. What about this year? Have you put any pressure on the financial staff to abolish or reduce? That's why you've fought for all those people, or are you not in charge, and that's why? Maybe we should go somewhere else, because apparently, for what we think you're responsible for, you haven't given up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Here, Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mrs Christidou, and the musicians are covered by the horizontal measures. as, also, you know, often people of artistic professions have three and four options. Hence, there is this enlargement made in the register of artistic professions. That's the one prisoner. Second, don't draw any conclusions about the campaign. I don't know if you judge differentiators yourself, but campaigns at the Ministry of Culture have not been given and will not be given. As for the EUR 72 billion that you have invoked, yes, it is the first time that Prime Minister and Government in this country manage to secure such a sum that can change the country's image. This may bother you for many reasons. You referred to the figures and spoke about the other European countries. You probably haven't looked into it as long as you should. In most European countries at the moment, the theatres, music scenes, in general the living spectacle - hearing remains closed and the exception is to move between 20% and 30%. That's why there are communications, it's very easy for someone to look for it. As for the theatre, whether or not it will work, I just want to inform you that already this week we are spending there are enough premieres of small and larger theatres. From there on, it is evidently a common and non-disputing finding that the recording of artists and especially the musicians to whom you refer is a particularly difficult process, since in many cases there is not a purely fiscal or insurance stigma for their work. That is why the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministries of Finance, Development, Investment, Work, is working systematically in order to record properly artists, creators of cultural workers, so that the state and appropriately ensure their financial support, but also to exercise public policies for their benefit. But there is a need for a record which has never been recorded and which has been done in recent months. This is the first time that the real forces of culture have been recorded transparently, so that it is easier and more effective to set up political and financial instruments. We are in a process of continuous processing of the requests we receive with the aim of optimising the system so that we can move from pilot to normal operation of the registry. It is important to point out that Greece is one of the first countries to coordinate the gradual relaunching of the cultural sector, obviously taking all security measures. We want active culture, but with particular attention to health data. And although everything depends on epidemiological data and on the course of the epidemiological curve, the Ministry of Culture will do its full duty and take whatever measures are necessary to support cultural workers financially in the logic of horizontal measures taken by the government for all the workers in that country. In this context, therefore, is the programme of subsidising the positions of the performing arts institutions through the Ministry of Labour. In order to ensure the most rational way of subsidising, there is already a group, working together with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Culture, which is working on this issue in order to solve various technical problems and to make this subsidy as fair as possible. Contrary to what you are trying to convince, this government is systematically dealing with the resolution of the pathogens of decades, which the pandemic has evidently demonstrated with particular cruelty. Because you have referred to at least three times my position in previous years as Secretary-General - apart from having taken up the role of Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture in a rather supreme role, but I am going beyond that - I am simply saying that the working life of the people of culture is a much greater risk, which is beyond us all, Mrs Christidou, and which cannot be exhausted in opposition krone and deliberate distortions. In order to resolve the very serious issues of cultural professionals, we are also working systematically with the co-legislative ministries within this government, of course contrary to the inaccuracy of the past. All these very serious problems of cultural professions were also known to you, they were known when you were a government, but you did absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u27	Thank you. We move on to the second debate, with number 21/5-10-2020 in the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Problems of the students of the Department of Nursing - the Twin wall Annex". The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Digalakis. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. The question is addressed to the Ministry of Education and because I have already heard the Minister's replies to the student mobilitys, I must point out that her answers were provocative and outrageous. Last Friday, just because it was calling and the Minister is still calling for dialogue - a monument of hypocrisy! -, thousands of students were outside the Ministry, they had consulted with the Ministry's leadership to enter a delegation in order to discuss and the Minister of Education's reply, the Ministry of Education, was wood, chemicals, hunting on the streets around the crackdown units, by MATs. Is that what the government means to him, like a dialogue? It seems that this is why the wood continued in the afternoon to trade unions and unions who went to protest outside the Ministry of Protection - otherwise - the citizen. My question is again, Mr President. It concerns the School of Nursing, a school that of course has its own history, started in 2007- several years ago - after being renamed and subjected to the School of Health of the University of Kavala and, finally, in May 2019 with SYRIZA, was converted into a Department of Nursing in the Dimotich and joined the School of Health Sciences of the International University of Greece as an annex to the Department of Nursing Thessaloniki, that is, an annex to the Nursing School of Thessaloniki. Two years, therefore, it is working formally, at least the second academic year, but problems remain, Minister. They are here and they remain not only but they are indeed growing up and their students and families live in despair. They are literally 'in the air' until now and both years, and the previous one and what it has started - is supposed to have begun. First of all, the first point is that these famous and parallel universities in all the previous decades, anyway, have not only solved but have probably exacerbated the problems of the departments and the difficulties of the students to complete their studies. The theoretical courses, the laboratory, the hospitals in many still remain the second one - supposedly - time of operation of this school. What for? Neither basic needs have been met either in teaching staff nor in rooms nor in infrastructure. So our question is very simple, Minister. What will your government do so as not to lose another semester? What will your Government do to ensure the functioning of this section? In short, we say that, in order to make all lessons and not sporadic as well as - like - all the corresponding measures for student care, food, student accommodation with modern infrastructure, we should like to see staff recruited. And finally, because we usually leave this out, as we talk about the material terms of education, is the very content of the school, you know, which needs to be modernised - and not only of it but of all schools - to be matched to the modern needs, which you have seen how quickly they are changing and many times and dramatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, first of all I would like to raise my objections to the first part of your question, because it is not elegant to describe the Minister's position when it is absent and also to point out that the demonstration we had at the Ministry of Education was hooded, stones, marbles and cannot be described as a peaceful demonstration by students. But let's go on the subject of your question and, indeed, thank you for the question, because I know your real interest in the issue of Duma Nursing. We have also discussed this within Parliament in your current question again, but also outside. It really is one of the greatest and most sturdy examples of slander with which SYRIZA restructured the academic map and, indeed, some time before it left power. I would remind you that the law transposing the department of the former TEI as an annex to the International University was Law 4610 and was passed in May 2019, a few months before the change of government. About four hundred students are currently studying in the former TEI's curriculum and another hundred ten who follow the university education program. And I would like to point out the number, it is a hundred out of the two hundred fifty that were introduced last year, because in addition to others, it also increased the number of importers in this section before they left. And this year we are also waiting for the incumbents of the year 2020-2021, which we have reduced. Now, how does the problem come about? The sloppyness with which the department was founded and conscientious has changed the selection criteria for staff. That is, the criteria in a university department are governed by other legislation, are more stringent. The result was that, despite the repeated invitations made to recruit temporary teaching staff, as this department does not have any permanent members - we had, for example, in the winter half of last year five notices: two for academic scholars, one for 407, two for young doctors - in all the notices the number of candidates was very small. The second proclamation of the winter semester, for example, was published 15 lessons. Only one candidate had the standard qualifications to be recruited. This continued this year, as in the first invitation from the sixteen offered courses only three people were nominated for six. So it's a situation that's going to continue if we don't do something. I would like here to tell you what we have done: we have spent too much time on the Department of Nursing in the Dumotich, because really the purpose and purpose must be first the students, first the conditions in which they will study. And that is why I had constant communication and meetings with both the President of the Department of Nursing and with the directors, the dean of the Democritus University and the chairman of the Board of Directors of the International University, as well as the President of the Independent Authority. We did this because the Nursing Duma in its assembly itself had proposed the most appropriate solution to the inclusion of the Twins' Nurse Annex from the International annex as an independent department in the Democritus University. And that's why it's simple, because Democratio has a medical school, and it's possible that teachers in medicine can make a contribution to the med school's med school. That is why we have asked the two universities to make decisions at the International University and the Democritus Senate, towards the inclusion of the annex as an independent body in Democritus. This was done at the International University in spring. And a few days ago, on October 2, we took the decision of the congress from the Democritus University, which refers to an administrative transfer of the annex to the Democritus University, along with its development program. As soon as we took the decision of the senator I submitted, I sent the request for an opinion from the Independent Authority, the NRA. The Senate's decision was taken on 2 October. On October 5, he was sent for advice to the National Higher Education Authority. We cannot prejudge the decision of the HRC here, but as long as this recommendation is positive, then we will proceed with its implementation, as it is the most appropriate solution to solve the problems in the Dubot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u32	First of all, we must agree, Minister, that all schools, others, of course, are just too much of an obstacle to pandemic, but in this school the obstacles are too high and almost difficult to overcome. First of all, Minister, let us say that the school is not new. It is not a school that started one, two years ago to have such organisational problems. It's a school that's been running for thirteen, fourteen years. The responsibilities of all the previous governments are therefore very clear. Nor is it a question where this school will belong, whether it will belong to the IMF or be part of the Democritus, which is the most logical thing, if you like, of a geographically owned school. The question is to ensure that those material terms of operation of this school with staff, with infrastructure, with a programme, so that children, students can study without hindrance and normally finish their schools, get a degree. You spoke of the notices, of the allegedly uninterested interest - that is what you said - in the staff. But you said yourself that this is an emergency staff. We're saying you're making invitations to permanent staff, because there's thousands of doctors, thousands of people with postgraduate degrees, with doctors who can be well exploited and out of work, but maybe most of them can't handle the poor wages of an assistant, a DC 407-, how much money do they get? - in a town away from home. The problem, that is, it's not just about students. Many times it's for teachers too. You said yourself that we have an originality here: there is a university department which does not have any members. That's a prototype. There are only two small rooms, one with computers that is not working, as most of them are for flying, a laboratory room with outdated equipment, amphitheaters are not there, the theoretical courses are held in the Twin wall cinema, while at the General Dumos Hotel, which covers a very large and very sensitive - if you want an area - and with many specificities it is subordinated, sub-funded and cannot, objectively, respond to this role. For stoves, no reason and of course no prediction of renting rooms. Last year, Easter started taking some laboratory lessons online. Okay, this could be said that due to the circumstances it could be accepted for a short period of time. But that can't go on. No laboratory lessons can take place online - you understand - for good reasons. There is also a problem with the practical exercise of students, Minister. In view of the lack of teachers from the department, a series of courses are not taught which are prerequisites for carrying out their practical examinations. So the students who completed the basic course at the degree can't do the practice without being blamed themselves, so they can't get their degree. They are delayed even taking their degree and, of course, you deprive them of them from above - because they do not attend courses - and student housing benefits. These have been submitted by thirty-eight students in the Intergroup Committee on Thrace, the Consultation Committee, and which I present in the Minutes. It is a text that also hits this danger code for this school. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You spoke about the National Evaluation Authority. We don't know what's really gonna change from the finding if this conclusion of the National Authority comes out. The problem is not the result, but the political will that the New Democracy government needs and, apparently, does not have. Apart from political will, of course, we also need funding, practical support from the government, so that children who are studying in it can study without hindrance. Don't tell us - and I close, Mr President - about the money, about the financial closeness that exists. Why, Minister, a few days ago, your Ministry for the so-called upgrading of the quality of the HEIs had a budget of EUR 6260,000 - take note, not of the practical problems faced by the schools, not of being able to respond to these difficult conditions of the pandemic, but of becoming more attractive to the competition race, with new foreign languages, rapid and other payment programmes - and also of EUR 1,287 000, which will be provided to ensure the extroversion of the institutions. What do you mean by the extroversion? But the advertising of universities abroad, so that tourist students can be attracted. Part of this money I think it would be more productive to have been made available for the Twin wall school. We would not be talking about these problems now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u33	You left the best for the end. Mr. Digalakis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. You said first in your dentistry that the Department of Nursing worked for years. I explained in my protology that it worked as a TEI department. They were other criteria with which staff are recruited at a TEI department and others with which they are recruited at a university department. The main problem in nursing was that with the requirement to hold a doctorate for teachers in the course could not be found. He wasn't hired personal. There were no applications. There was no interest in the places to be covered and to be able to teach the lessons. You also said that it doesn't matter where the department belongs. And that's a big mistake. The Democritus University, in addition to being the natural space of the Nursing Duma which is in Thrace, is a university that has a Medical School. It's a university who has a university hospital. Both the teachers of the School of Medicine and the University Hospital in Alexandroupolis can be used and are essential to enable the needs to be met and the students of the Department of Nursing can be properly trained. This, as I said, also proposed the section itself: the inclusion of the annex as a separate section in the Democritus University in order to solve academic problems in this way. With regard to contracts for permanent staff, since last year's allocation of two permanent teaching posts, two LPIS posts have already been allocated by the international in the annex to Nursing and their publication pending. At the same time, the International University took eight positions this year from the distribution of the two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. He'll get more out of the distribution that comes in the next few days. The annex will also be reinforced by post 407, special teaching staff. They announced today. It's two hundred eighty-seven for the universities. An important part will go to the International University and contribute to the Nursing in order to fill the gaps. I repeat, the main thing is the administrative integration of nursing care at the Democritus University. I have sent the question to the NRAC in order to deliver an opinion. There is a clear political will. Once the EFSA opinion comes, we will proceed immediately to implementation in order to solve the problems of the annex to nursing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u35	The fifth will be discussed under number 23/5-10-2020, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Antagonism of the Municipality of Aristotle in the Regional Unit of Halkidiki". The Minister for the Interior will answer Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when it comes to discussing the same question with the same content as that which was discussed a year ago, it shows that nothing was done about the problems raised in the previous question. This is as much as the issue of the anti-military armour of the Municipality of Aristotle, Halkidiki. It's about time now. It was at the end of November that the two strong theories and the floods caused by these theories and rains occurred. Still the signs in the wider region of Olympiad can be seen if it passes through there, as well as in other villages and other communities. The reason why this was done is well known. We talked about it last year. Full absence of anti-military works. Literally indifference. This has resulted in very great damage to homes, businesses, crops and the region's road network, which is literally the way in which it is supported - because it cannot be said that it is maintained - and it is becoming extremely dangerous over time. This is not the first time, of course, for the area there and for the Olympiad. It is also the relief, which certainly plays a role, which is why, in such areas, anti-military projects should be a priority. However, there has never been any genuine interest, there has never been the necessary resources available to study, design and, in any case, to get into a programme and implement it. And we are talking about projects now very important both for the environment, but also for people and for their own lives. You yourself, Mr Minister, recognised last year's question - and we write it in the written text of our question - that they are urgent for these projects to be carried out and that you will try to speed up a study in central Macedonia for this region and implement it. We have been stressing this question, and we have had a little time - because it has already come to light, already in the form of extraordinary weather notes, it is becoming increasingly worrying for people there - that we should be able to start some urgent projects so that people can feel safe. So we are asking you very simply what you will do to make these flooding projects - they need money, of course you know very well - and to settle all the streams and all the torrents that are not very few in this area. It is a particular area, it has geographical peculiarities for it, and there should be an even greater interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that one of the reasons for its beauty and rare beauty is its geographical relief, which was responsible for the floods which occurred lately last November. We talked about it then. The truth is that 15 months - and in the last few days - I myself and the subject of Thessaly, particularly with great rainfalls, but also with the Ionian Sea. I was listening to the district manager Thessaly saying that it takes about ten years to complete a flooding project in Greece, which is at least incomprehensible the time and procedures they need. That is why one of the pieces of change and the reclassification of certain responsibilities between the state and the government will be a part of limiting it to clarify the responsibilities for anti-military projects. Involved by decentralised administration as a forest office, the region is involved, the municipalities are involved, there are instruments that fall under urban legislation, in the general building regulation, i.e. a series of landscapes, which, instead of facilitating the execution of emergency flooding projects, is likely to hamper their implementation. Especially in the case of the Municipality of Aristotle, I happen to have regular communication on various issues that exist with the Mayor of the region, Mr. Valiano. It was financed a few weeks ago with the sum of EUR 250 000 to substantially cover a study cost. The study of what I've been informed a while ago in telephone communication goes on. I have also called for the region to step up its time to give up the study and to go to the main task, which is the implementation of the flooding project, to which we must proceed immediately. The study has some latest important details, which need to be regulated, and, above all, it concerns the channelling of torrents through a residential area, which I had visited with the Minister of National Defence, Nikos Panayotopoulos last November. The winter passes through the inhabited area and requires special care for the settlement of the ravages. Once the study has been delivered, the region - and according to the statements made by the Regional Director, Mr Djitzkostas - is willing to finance it. Let me tell you, however, that because the problem of anti-military works is on a large scale and at great intensity, especially at the recent time when the dangerous weather patterns are happening more and more often, the Ministry of Interior is in cooperation with the Ministry of Civil Protection and the General Secretariat of Civil Protection in particular are ready and working on a financing plan, now the main project, from the Public Investment Programs of the two institutions, the Ministry of Interior and the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, so that they can now be given the implementation of counter-military works. I think that's very important. It'll be soon. We need to speed up the procedures. Works must be done at a rapid pace and, unfortunately, repressively after the occurrence of a dangerous phenomenon. I think we should also change the legislative framework at one point, but, above all, speed up procedures so that we do not have to go back to dangerous phenomena at regular intervals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u39	Thank you. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by pointing out, Minister, that compensation for the disasters has been pending since last year, beyond direct aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u41	Farmers or...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u42	Generally speaking, any kind of compensation for the fields, for the houses. In addition to the direct support given, as far as the floods were concerned, compensation is pending because, according to official evidence, we had a destruction of seven hundred acres of agricultural crops, we had hundreds of fourteen, please, houses which suffered very serious damages and a house - which I saw with my own eyes - which was very dangerous and could not be inhabited. Aristotle Municipality has been sent the technical record of damages to repair these damages since the previous May. Therefore, the services of the Ministry, your own and the other ministries must run and hurry so that these allowances can be paid and not waited for months, sometimes for years. As far as the municipalities are concerned, I would like to say that most of them, in particular the small municipalities, not that the large are in a better fate, are completely subordinated and completely detached from staff even by workers of simple and unskilled nature. We are not talking, of course, about political engineers or other specialties as necessary for such projects. However, I must tell you that - and I am conveying, if you like, the agony and the mayor, which our party's step has encountered some time ago in Halkidiki, Arnaia on our visit - and the people in the region about what can happen in a case of very strong rain with the absence of anti-military, as we have said, works. A study has been submitted to the Region of Central Macedonia. This study is months old, not to say years in drawers. This study should be approved at some point. It is mature, overtimed and should, above all, be implemented in order to make these projects. Therefore, the responsibilities that will be borne by here and beyond all the levels of state power for what may happen, I think, will be very heavy. I will submit the letter of the Mayor of the Municipality of Aristotle and the press release in the Minutes. We had asked the same question last year, and even before it became timely it was written. You know, there is an answer from the Ministry of the Environment, that is, from the government, which concerns us. So on December 12, 2019, about two weeks after the floods, the Ministry of the Environment informs us signed that the Municipality of Aristotle does not belong to a potentially high-risk zone, as can be seen from the stage of the preliminary assessment. Look, it is outrageous - you understand it too - in an area where there are too many floods each year and there are people at risk - Halkidiki is one of the areas that we have such floods and because of its relief and because of the lack of anti-military works and because of the large and many disasters it has - this region is not in the high-risk areas. What does that mean, Minister, you know that too? It means that when an area is not in such a zone of potentially high-risk flooding, there is no provision for flooding, and that these are what we are starting to think about, once there is a flood. This was in 2014, it happened in 2015 and in 2016, some time it has to stop. Of course, I remember now that the same Ministry, the Ministry of the Environment, in the summer of 2017 for the Mandra region, had posted that it was shielded by any floods over the next hundred years and a few months after we saw the tragedy. In any case, we will say this again, Minister - you know it, of course, and not only us - that it is not in the priorities of this type of development of capitalist, the one which your government is also serving, and the European Union, such projects as flooding, earthquakes, infrastructure. These are the works that people need today before all people do. Of course, as much as we have sought to find in this famous new multibillion-dollar recovery fund, we have not found any anti-flood work, just as we have found no provision for education or health. It seems that all the money is for the green predators of green energy and green new deal and for the predators of new digital technology and nothing more for the projects, what our people really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Lebanon, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Starting from the end and your last report, because you raised the issue of flooding, I told you that there is the Ministry's intention to finance the implementation of flooding projects. If I remember correctly, because I do not have it in hand, the document of the Ministry of the Environment said that there is a possibility of funding and areas that are not in high danger. But I don't have it clipboarded, so I look forward to it. The second part is that especially on the issue of anti-military and earthquake control there is an invitation to the "TITIS" program for earthquake control of public buildings and, in particular, schools, which is very important given that especially in the two large urban centres of the country, many years have passed since the last major earthquake, so it shows the Ministry's interest and concern in a piece which is very sensitive. You raised the question of the staff of the municipalities, especially small municipalities. The truth is, we have said it at the very first moment, that small municipalities, particularly in the region, have a problem of subscribing and subscribing mainly specialised scientists. For this reason, nearly 90% of the recruitments approved for 2020 at the Local Government Organisations I and II degrees and in municipalities, i.e. also in regions, were in the vast majority of engineers, either political engineers or topographers, so that, on the one hand, municipalities themselves can supervise small projects or draw up studies and, on the other, they can promote even larger projects that are necessary for their daily lives. And you can be sure that both the proposals made by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Environment at the Recovery Fund in the European Union are concrete parts of it. As a proposal from the Ministry of Interior, there is a piece that even concerns building and maintaining too many schools across the country, but there is also a special piece for development and infrastructure projects, which the province needs, especially as regards anti-military and anti-military and anti-Semitism and parts of the improvement of their everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u45	Unfortunately, anti-milling, like other projects, as you know, because they do not seem to precede many times. We all know that here, beyond all the factions, then the world is drowning, and that's probably where it looks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u46	It's not profitable, it's not rewarding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u47	The following topical and urgent questions will not be discussed in consultation with the ministers: The second question, under number 24/5-10-2020, of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The necessary maintenance work in the swimming pool of Chania and the immediate reopening of all the swimming pools". The first under number 3/5-10-2020, the first question of the first cycle of MP Kilkis of the Radical Left coalition, Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Expansion of work contracts for hospital cleaning workers". The first under number 5/10-2020, a second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct awards of the diagnostic tests for COVID -19 from hospitals in Thessaloniki to private workshops". Also, it will not be discussed by parliamentarians, the fourth with number 8/5-10-2020, a topical question by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "In turmoil and reflection the educational community and parents with the conditions of operation of the Primary and Secondary Education in Preveza". In order to finish as we started, that is to say Mr Arsenis, we will discuss the sixth question under number 15/5-10-2020 of the second cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Kritona Arsenis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "A cleaner per school is not enough to deal with the pandemic." The Deputy Minister, Mr Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for being open to the 3K issues we are discussing and we really expect the interpretative circulars that will bring a solution to many of the deadlocks over there. I would also like to congratulate you on a piece of this issue that we are discussing, that you have turned project contracts into fixed-term contracts with much more rights. Mr. Theodorikos, however, goes on to say that the Ministry gave additional money this year and hired over five thousand more employees. We have seen a press release reproducing too much in the media, without anyone getting into the trouble of examining what has really happened. So we went and examined in my region, West Athens, elements of the Parents and Gardens Union in Aigaleo: sixty-eight schools buildings, twenty permanent workers, thirty-nine contractors and ten three-hours. As they are heavy and unhealthy, they work six and a half hours a day, while the full - day grades operate from eight in the morning to four in the afternoon. If you put the numbers down, you'll see that they're 0.8 employees in cleaning per school. Not even one per school. And in the whole day, which they have a restaurant, the situation is really incomprehensible, as it passes through a bunch of students and succeeds the other without the space being cleaned up. Incomprehensible things! Another example is the 30th Primary School in Peristeri. Two full-time cleaners. Here we get over one per school, but look at the particularity of the pigeon because of the huge school units. It is a school with four hundred students and students, forty - fifty teachers in full-day service, which means it needs at least two shifts. Mr President, please, very little tolerance. I'll be done. The question is what will happen with these schools, if there have been criteria from the EGE, if it will proceed to criteria from the EGE, what should be applied to clean up these schools. Finally, stop counting only rooms. There are public spaces, there are restaurants in the entire day and so on. You must also take these into account, look at the real needs and what this means today is the cleanliness of these schools that meet the increased needs of COVID -19. Also, with regard to the numbers for the recruitments announced, please make it clear what are re-intakes from these annual redundancies you are going through and, finally, how many cleaners we had before COVID -19 and how many today. Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u49	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the piece of West Attica. It is also the rule applied horizontally in Greece for the first time since this school year. The project contracts made by INEDIBIM of the Ministry of Education were converted into fixed-term contracts. The selected algorithm was relatively simple. INEDIBIM was paying for the rooms cleared by the cleaner - "worker" and depending on the number of seats each had received. So by turning the works contracts and establishing fixed-term contracts, we had three things: firstly, they were considered full-time people who had been cleaned out of twelve seats. This figure increased by 20% and the rest of the municipal cleaners were part-time cleaners. For example, as you said, in Peristeri last year, three people had done an INEDIBIM contract for cleaning school units. Today, speaking from the Ministry, eighty-three full-time and twenty-three part-time jobs were approved for the schools of Peristeri. So last year's number compared to this year was exactly the same. You're going to tell me: but is the situation last year that we didn't have a coronary, and it's the situation we have this year? Let me note that the increase in the cost of the state budget was from 51 million in the previous school year to 84 million only from the conversions of project contracts to fixed-term contracts. We had all agreed that it was an unacceptable scheme for working contracts and that is why work contracts had to be converted into fixed-term contracts. So, from the 51 million we went to 84 million, an increase of 33 million euros. And I come back to what I told you before, namely what extra tools we gave the municipalities in order to get better and more efficient cleanliness of the school units. Firstly, we have enabled the municipalities to cover and "convert" parttime contracts in full-time contracts. So, for example, the Municipality of Peristeri, which had twenty-three part-time jobs, can, with one decision, do these twenty full-time and work full-time. Secondly, we have allowed four-month contracts for the cleaning of schools up to 31-12-2020. This means, in practical terms, that a contract can be concluded by Christmas holidays and immediately after the municipality has proceeded with a new contract for four months and that it will be up to the end of April, which will review the situation in the light of the epidemiological data. Thirdly, on Thursday evening the House voted in favour of it, it was tabled to a ministerial amendment - in order to cover also an important issue - that since the conversion of fixed-term contracts to work contracts were 'blocked' foreign cleaners which had been employed for many years in the cleanliness of the school units and in order to resolve this issue - there was sensitivity from various municipal councils - the municipality was able, in addition to all others, to make 20% of the approved posts available by the municipality under a project contract - not by INEDIAM, by the municipality. In conclusion, it is the general rule we have said as the Ministry of the Interior to manage the municipality's finances during the pandemic period. The Ministry has provided substantial funding horizontally. At first, it gave the municipalities 10m euros with the start of the pandemic and 75m euros in May horizontally across all municipalities and 40m euros a few days ago on the basis of the actual accounting figures up to 31 July. So, from now on, from 1 August to the end of the year, expenditure to be incurred by the municipalities for the coronary, including expenditure on the staff to be employed above, by the Ministry of Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will help the municipalities by covering a large part of the losses they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u51	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary, I have told you on my own that I do indeed welcome the conversion of contractors and works contracts in a certain period of time. It's very important and it's very important that we do it everywhere. We are, of course, talking about positions that cover fixed and constant needs and I would like to remind you of the Court of Justice of the European Union in March 2020 where it stipulates for all the Member States, necessarily, that any positions that cover fixed and fixed needs are covered by contracts of indefinite duration. So thank you for taking the first step. I invite you to take the legal step, as defined by the Court of Justice of the European Union. It's important that you've taken some steps. But you must be judged by the result. The result is that - contrary to what Mr Theodorikos says, to answer whether there are cleaners and cleaners in schools that we have given so many extra money, that we have hired so many people - we have less than one cleaners per school unit. That's the point. And it is a very worrying reality for our society to be shielded against this epidemic. And in that I want your commitment, that the criteria will not be how many extra workers can be hired or what amount they have paid. The criterion will be that the number of cleaners and cleaners are in schools at the moment, per how many students we have a cleaner or cleaner, what the procedures are, what the contractual obligations of those people who clean up the rooms are, whether they are restaurants, or the rooms, how often they do and so how many we need. To do so in a scientific way to tackle this shocking challenge to human life, to set these criteria and on that basis to move forward. Otherwise, I am sorry that the children are right - I will close, Mr President, as we started with Mrs Keramea - when they say that with so many people per class, without cleaners, without adequate staff, we cannot continue the school process because we put our grandparents, our grandmothers and the rest of society beyond ourselves. So really, Mr. Undersecretary, please see the objective criteria on the basis of the scientific community that cleanliness has to meet today in the midst of a pandemic in our society. That, if you wish, will also create a sense of relief in society and a sense of greater security for both children and parents and teachers, which I think is the right thing to do right now in order for the school year to be able to function, so that we can shield ourselves against COVID -19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u53	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I explained to you before the measures taken and the tools that have been taken by the municipalities to increase staff, which is employed in the cleanliness of school units. One of the 'benefits' following the conversion of contracts into fixed contracts is that we are removed from the part called 'the rooms'. And there really was the question: Is the gym that has a school in it, is it or isn't it a room? Either a lab room or a dining room or anything else is or isn't a room? So I do think that, with fixed-term contracts and the other tools we have given, they can go ahead with the more efficient cleaning of the units. You know, because as a ministry we are constantly in dialogue with local government, we hear the problems that exist. We have seen the problems and increased needs, and that is why we have also advanced the introduction of the three new measures, especially for the cleanliness of school units, if you like, and as a sign of our sensitivity to guarantee the health of both pupils and teachers. I repeat that the staff employed - we say what has been adopted, which has been covered, have already been disbursed to the municipalities of EUR 3,600,000 against wage costs - at a numerical level, even if you want to see man-hours higher than last year. Let me agree with you on the track that it needs a real study on how many cleaners it takes a school to be clean throughout its operation. The Ministry intends to cooperate with the EBRD most likely to entrust it with a small study - it is not a terrible amount - in order to see the real costs and needs that a school needs, whether this is in Peristeri in a large structure and hosts many students, or even a school in the province that has other needs or can be, for example, a three-way primary school and so on. So, we intend to do a full X-ray of the jobs needed to make the cleanliness of the school units effective, regardless of whether or not and leaving from the coronary period, so that we can also know the necessary staff and - why not? - at a certain point in time to proceed with the approval of recruitment of permanent staff, because we are a country which many times - I have said so before in the Chamber - the permanent staff cover it with a certain period of time and the seasonal staff cover it with standing needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-12-S1-commons.u56	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.56 the sitting for the next Wednesday 14 October 2020 at 9 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate; and (b) discussion and decision in accordance with Rules 62 of the Constitution and 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on requests for waivers of immunity from Members' immunity, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
