ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's 22-9-2020 authorisation, the minutes of the PR's meeting, of Tuesday 22 September 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Digital Governance (Integration into the Greek Legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 and of Directive (EU) 2019/1024) - Electronic Communications (Integration into Greek Law of Directive (EU) 2018/1972) and other provisions’]] [[They are announced to the House by Mr Emmanuel Syntagakis, MP Heraklion, the following:]] [[A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES]] [[To enter page 2a]] [[B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS]] [[To enter page 2b]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Please tell the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that on Wednesday 23 September 2020, the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: The Question No 1060/21-9-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendonis. The question under number 1046/17-9-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Georgios Zavvos, and by the question under number 1061/21-9-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Aygeakis. We begin with our fourth question under No 1060/21-9-2020 of the First Senate of the Greek Communist Party of Greece.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Reimbursement of artistic schemes and artists whose events of live show - listening have been postponed or cancelled under the responsibility of the organizers". Mr. Delia, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, in the last 20 days, over the last three or four weeks, major protests have been multiplying by artists and mass artists' bodies, protests concerning the sudden and last minute's cancellations of events that would take place in different parts of our country. These cancellations were carried out by local authorities, by municipalities and by regions, and they were related to events which did not fall within the scope of the legislative framework, as has so far been established by legislative acts and joint ministerial decisions. These events continue to be subject to those restrictive measures, which must be complied with in order to carry them out. Nevertheless, despite what we have said, they were cancelled and the worst is that apart from the fact that the rates of these events were cancelled, that is, the people who would serve them, were not compensated in too many cases, neither by the regions nor the municipalities. There are two features, abstract examples from the Region of Attica and the Region of Epirus: they were suddenly cancelled and only five events in these two regions, in agreement with the Secretary of State for Civil Protection. The regional authorities have put forward a well-known justification for the protection of public health and for the non-proliferation of the virus, which, of course, are unstable, because these events have been planned and decided within the pandemic, that is to say, the pandemic suddenly did not find them, and, as we have said, these events could be carried out in accordance with all these health protocols to be observed, in line with the recommendations of the experts. Of course, the district managers of Attica and Epirus are not the only ones. Most people, not to say all of those who annul such events, show this excuse, and in the Attica region we have a withdrawal from the region, as they announced that they will become a section and become part of these events. However, the problem of redress for artists for events that have been cancelled without any responsibility remains. So we ask you, Minister, what you intend to do, and if you intend, in any case, to ensure that these artists are compensated for events that were cancelled, as we have said, without their own responsibility and without such cancellations being contrary to government provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni. Good morning, Mrs. Mendoni. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It is clear that the health crisis has created unprecedented conditions in our country, on the planet as a whole, which the government has dealt with successfully, and that is why it has taken credit for its operations and from abroad in many cases. Since the beginning of the crisis the Ministry of Culture has created an integrated management strategy to support affected artists and artists and to take development measures for the cultural and creative sector and to produce and disseminate high-quality content in order to prevent citizens from being given access to culture. Among the initiatives that we took at the level of the development measures were our decision to make available to the regions of the country a sum of EUR 300 million at first, which was EUR 50 000, for the performance of concerts in order to support musicians. That was because we understood that the most affected sector was the musicians and we chose to grant the regions which have an administrative and financial self-sufficiency, so that whatever issues arise can be solved more easily. Indeed, in August some OTAs I and II canceled the events that were to be organized by them. But I would like to be clear: the Ministry of Culture, even in the cases it financed, had no involvement in the organisation of these events, much more so in the preparation of contracts with artists and, as you have pointed out in your question, any cancellations are borne solely by the bodies which have decided to organise them. Since, therefore, any such decision only affects the organisers of the event concerned, who are linked to a contractual relationship with the artists, it is clear that the bodies which organised the events are the sole authorities to decide on compensation for the artists. I would also like to remind you that the Ministry of Culture has taken any action and has taken any institutional regulatory intervention or informal clarification in order to make it clear that the country will remain alive from cultural activities and artists will carry out their work despite the difficult conditions of the pandemic. In addition, since the opening of live performances and audiences on 1 July 2020, the Ministry issued and put into effect sanitary protocols such as the flawless conduct of live performances and audiences throughout the summer without any incident. In addition, the Ministry is constantly trying to introduce institutions, where it is of course epidemiologically permissible, to exclude the live show - listening to any arrangements that seeks to suspend or restrict events, so that there is no doubt that such acts do not occupy living sights and hearings. The Ministry also shared the mission, not only of the relevant circulars in the OTAs, but, perhaps, did not have to make recommendations and clarifications to them, and also to the local police authorities on various events prior to the cancellation of the events. In any case, the Ministry of Culture is now in contact with the relevant ministries in order to find a solution to the financial support of professionals affected by cancellations of live show and hearing. This does not mean that it is possible to compensate the Ministry of Culture for events which were cancelled by others and for which the Ministry of Culture did not have the slightest interference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mendoni. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u7	I want to keep, Minister, the last thing you said about the communication you have about finding a solution. I think you also have a weapon in your hands, a weapon of funding, since many of these events have been financed by the government, and therefore, the funder has reason to know where this money will be directed. I think it is fair to demand compensation for these people who have made efforts. As you know, for a performance of either theatrical or music, some rehearsals have to be done, it also has a preparation. We, Minister, do not say that it cannot, for some reasons, be cancelled or scheduled cultural events cancelled. Alas! What we are saying is that, if such cancellation is made, such a cancellation under the responsibility of the organiser, then I think it is also his contractual obligation to compensate artists, all those who would support such an event. In other words, these bodies, regions and municipalities cannot invoke the state of pandemic - which is truly unprecedented, we will not disagree on this, it has brought new rules to the social life of people and new habits - retrospectively, such a state of health, which was known when these conventions were signed and when these events were decided, to cancel them after a few days and at the last minute. The worst is that these cancellations and cancellations of these events are made by state bodies, because both regions and municipalities are state bodies, they are not private. We said about the rehearsals, about the trouble these people need to prepare their works, their concert, their theatrical performance, and even to adapt them to the conditions of those particular, unprecedented and health protocols, so that they can be carried out with the greatest possible safety. The same was done in theatre performances and musical events. In any case, we consider that the government can even more force the regions and municipalities, who are avoiding to compensate all these artists, as they are obliged. However, I would like to take this opportunity to note for what has been done in particular in recent days and for the measures decided in the middle of a pandemic, the even more restrictive, especially in Attica, that we are seeing from the Athens Cultural Organisation, for example, an exaggerated zeal. While the government forbids live music events - because this is the government's last decision - the Municipality of Athens Cultural Organization comes and inhibits all the theatrical performances, all the theatrical events that had been decided. We believe that this is an exaggeration. These events can be done well, with all that strict compliance with the health protocols, distances and all the relevant ones. In fact, we also have a letter that you received from the Municipal Regional Theatre of Crete, where he calls on the Government to allow the performances of theatres. The world involved in these events and their distances, is watching closely, and I do not think there are any broadcasts of this kind or much more, a classic music concert cannot be held, for example, with respect to all that distance. But there is also an issue about the immediate future of the theatre, in winter, which comes, namely what will happen with the plays. We do not know what is happening and we ask you if you are aware of international practice, international experience, how the whole issue is dealt with around the world, in relation to the theatrical performances. Because there is a contradiction, Minister, we must confess. There cannot be such a great deal of rigour - we said what the Municipality of Athens's Cultural Organization did - in relation to the theatrical performances and at the same time to see crowding phenomena in public transport, to have everything that is going on in the workplace, in the large factories, to have the crowding in the schools - is a very serious issue - despite the proposals made by our party, many people, the clubs. Not all rigour, and despite the observance of the health protocols, which are maintained, can suddenly be exhausted in the field of art. He is well known, Minister, the comforting role of art and its supportive role in man's life. We believe that the way in which art will continue to function in all its forms can be found, and of course, it can be compensated, because I do not think what you said about musicians is very honoured by the government, namely that you will give them a allowance for a couple of months, 18 euros a day. This, in fact, concerns a small part of these musicians. Even more brave decisions must be made in relation to all these people who serve culture, who are also very wronged by all this situation, so that culture can continue to function in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Ms. Mendonis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, what I can assure you is that the money that the Ministry of Culture transferred to the regions for organising concerts is clearly not going back to the Ministry of Culture. These will remain in the regions and the line we have given, the request is that this money be made available for cultural events in the regions. From that point on, you know better than I do, that any compensation for any thing is in direct effect and contractual obligation. As, unfortunately, you know this is happening - everyone knows it now - artists, in many cases, are moving in the black economy. We saw this, it came out embossed and very intensely during the pandemic period. This means that to a very large extent, the artistic activity of some people is not reflected anywhere. They're not recorded anywhere. That is why we have also taken the initiative, which we consider to be a key reform initiative, of recording the world of culture in the register, which was set up in the Ministry of Labour. In order to see the question of compensation legally, it is therefore appropriate to consider ad hoc and, depending on the agreements, which have been signed between artists, shapes and organizers. The fact is that an institutional framework for the payment of compensation to artists or artistic schemes contributing to municipalities and regions does not exist. I repeat what I have said to you before, and I think it is our duty to see, together with the co-legislative ministries, because the Ministry of Culture alone cannot compensate anyone, how and whether it is possible to find a solution to support financially those who have actually been affected by the cancellations of the live show. By the way, I should like to say that for those events organised by the Ministry of Culture within the framework of the "All Greece a culture" programme and it has had to be cancelled - not many, thankfully, of the two hundred and seventy events are more than fifteen of those that had to be postponed - those artists who worked with the Ministry's supervising bodies will obviously be paid for the cancellations. The Ministry does not follow the practice of non-compensation. They will normally be paid as if this event had happened. Finally, for winter theatres, there was also heard yesterday in the briefing made by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection that in the next few days, the procedures will be regulated, which will enable all the events of the living show to function in winter. All over the world and throughout Europe, the restrictions imposed are great. They are entirely linked to health measures and we can only do something different. But here we have a great comparative advantage, that in all the events that took place in the summer, the order, the measure, the health protocols, and at least, none of the theatrical events appear to have been responsible, even for one case. We don't have that kind of negative record. So in the next few days, the procedures will be settled, because I fully understand that both artists and artistic shapes must do their rehearsals and know what is missing after two - three weeks. I repeat that the health protocols will be fully respected. There will be restrictions, but we have the advantage that cultural events have not created cases so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Mendoni. Thank you both very much. Mr Delis, it is not only the artists who are around - the ones who lost their bread from this cancellation of events, which was fortunately small, as the Minister said. And we go to the next one, the first with number 1061/21-9-2020, a topical question for the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "The problems of the amateur football teams of Heraklion". Mr. Synthyaki, the question very well, because amateur football is the blood donor of Greek football and all amateur clubs have problems. Two minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, you know that amateur sport as a whole has come into a very deplorable situation on the occasion of the coronary crisis, adding even more difficulties to the already marginal situation. Of course, we were also given the opportunity in the recent discussion of the sport bill to place ourselves as a Communist Party of Greece in extensive terms on these issues. Although we have not received any specific response, we assume today that we will have very specific answers and solutions to the problems of amateur sport. In particular now, the serious financial problems faced by the amateur football teams of Heraklion, all the categories of the local championships, the crumbs given as a state grant that do not, as you can see, cover even the basic fixed costs of clubs, have brought the local football to a dead end in Heraklion, which also has consequences for the athletes, to carry out local championships and the entire range of employees in sport. On the other hand, the COVID pandemic -19 and what it has brought in the previous period and is expected to bring and in the near future are coming to further exacerbate problems due to gaps and ambiguities in government support measures. It is characteristic that in many cases unions and athletes are called upon to bear the burden of the application of the designated medical protocols, as well as the acquisition of the health equipment. More generally, there is no health aid that should be provided, as and where necessary, by the state to athletes, coaches and, more generally, to all persons involved and involved in sport. And while amateur football is growing because of our policies, which have been implemented by all governments over the years, in a sense of less cost for the state, the current additional objective difficulties - economic, functional - faced by amateur clubs undermine their own survival. The above, as you can see, makes it necessary for them to be given direct support by the state, in order to continue their operation, to continue to exist. So we ask you, Minister, what measures the government intends to take for exceptionally brave state funding of amateur football teams, in order to respond to 2020-2021, to the costs of arbitrage for the 2020-2021 period, to grant government funding to the municipalities, so that they can bear all the operational costs of maintaining land that are owned and allocated to amateur clubs and are caring for sports space, lockers, power, water and much more. Finally, we ask what the government intends to do about covering all medical expenses, such as the issue of a health card visa or the presence of doctors in the struggles and all that from the state budget. To provide free coverage of costs for carrying out COVID tests -19 for athletes of amateur football teams, referees, racing staff and coaches. Ensure centrally adequacy of free health material with priority for personal protective equipment and frequent disinfections in all sports areas with the responsibility and expense of the State. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u12	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Ausgeakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much for your question about the economic and health problems the football area faces, although in my opinion, let me point out that the problems faced by amateur sport concern all and not just football. I am pleased that we have been having this debate just a few days after the vote on the new sport law, of Law 4726/2020, with a delay of twenty years, of a law - a section on Greek sport that will bring oxygen and resolution to the sporting ecosystem. I am also pleased that you are giving me the opportunity to reiterate all these initiatives that we have taken for the financial support of the entire sporting family, without any exception. I am not happy, of course, to answer a question that is stagnating and rejecting the reality. I say this because just last week you voted against articles that, if you were consistent with your ideology, you should have voted in favour. I am referring more specifically to the following articles: Article 6, namely having the right to vote on the boards of federations, which you have voted against. In Article 9, that is to say, the new composition of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee, although it was a unanimous demand for all, both of the administration of the Greek Paralympic Committee and of the Hellenic Paralympic Association, you voted against it. In Article 30, that is to say the arrangements for the use of discrimination between athletes and students to be introduced into the HEIs, both when their associations have no special athletic recognition and because of a pandemic that you have voted against. In Article 21, namely the National Platform of Sports Integrity, the Macolin Convention, which aims to limit manipulation of toys, which you again voted against. It is, therefore, some of what I expected, if you were consistent with your ideology, that you supported it. It is my pleasure, therefore, to make it clear again today that the framework for our actions to make it clear to everyone that the government is directly, very effective and timely on the side of amateur sport and athletes in every way. After all, the point of reference of this policy is the Registry of Sports Associations, which we are finally acquiring in our country after decades. And we go further so that within a very short time our country will have a Coach and Sports Register. I would also like to inform you that very briefly the signing of the President-in-Office's Decree setting up the EEC, the Doping National Anti-Fraud Agency - formerly-ESCAN - will have been completed, thereby making a decisive step towards harmonising our country with world standards, with new facilities in the OAS. We will soon also have news about our workshop, which has lost its accreditation under the responsibility of the previous government. In addition, following the vote of Law 4639/19 and Law 4726/20 last week, we proceed to the next step to deal with the manipulation phenomena or commonly the "in" toys, with the establishment of the national platform "PATHLA". [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] To come to your question about the financial support of amateur clubs, as you know, we have already launched actions to support practically directly from the state in amateur sport. After twelve years - keep the dates, they have a value - we are moving towards the direct grant of amateur sports clubs, with the amount of EUR 12 million available, for their direct support, and this amount will be distributed with absolute transparency. You know, some things as much as you try to dress up as an opposition, the truth isn't hiding. Twelve years later our government comes to strengthen amateur sport. You argued that the Sports Association Register was an unprecedented energy on our part. However, this is another revolution of self-evident. You're asking the state to support amateur sport, because that's what your state-run idealism imposes on you. We believe, Mr Syntagakis, that the state must guarantee, contribute and financially support at this difficult juncture the amateur sport we serve. But sincerely, we do not understand how you think about it, despite the effort I have made all these days. You believe that the state to whomever passes and states that it has a union, must open the wallet and give it the Greek taxpayer's money. Without control? No criteria? That is why we have created the Registry of Sports Associations, and so we ensure that public funds are made transparent and objective. That is why we have set a six-month deadline for those unions using the sports facilities of the General Secretariat of Sports in order to settle them, otherwise they will not be able to use them. That's class and transparency and housekeeping everywhere. However, the grant will receive what amateur associations have completed the pre-registration procedure in the Register of Sports Associations and have the special athletic recognition of the General Secretariat of Sports. No one's gonna stop us from putting order in the field of sport. The criteria, as I said before in plenary, are racing: number of sports, number of coaches and number of athletes. As far as your question for the municipalities is concerned, it is not my responsibility to reply to you on this point and I refer you to the Ministry of the Interior. In your question now on health protocols, which were one of the three questions, we must stress that during the period since the resumption of sport, all the championships planned by the federations were successfully completed, without jeopardising the health of athletes, coaches and employees of clubs and sports facilities. As far as the protocol and the rules of operation of sports facilities are concerned, I refer you to the updates of the protocols that we published and which I also present and are available to you. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And since the data are constantly changing, the Scientific Committee of the General Secretariat of Sports is on guard, continuously monitor them and adapt the instructions accordingly. Be assured, ladies and gentlemen, that we are fully aware of the financial damage suffered by the sporting family and from the very beginning we are fighting to keep sport at high levels to the benefit of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ausgeakis. Mr. Synhronakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I did not intentionally follow up the debate that I think was exhausted in the sports bill, which we discussed with very specific, clear positions and concrete proposals. The Minister, when he feels the inability to convince the sports world, considers that he should follow up the lame and false arguments he has put forward today. I say this because the sports bill by the overwhelming majority of the sporting amateur world is doomed. Even today we are talking about, there has been a storm of reactions both in unions and in federations. This is a law 'electionary', which, in combination with the electronic register, is an attempt, firstly, to reduce the number of amateur clubs through the dazzling bureaucratic procedures introduced by the Ministry of Sports in order to reduce the number of clubs, so take part in this modest state funding of 12 million euros. Can the Minister tell us how many of the unions that have been pre-registered and make the division of 12 million, see what each club will get? It'll take or it won't take 2,000 euros. Is the Minister aware that he is funding amateur, societal sport and that we are not ashamed at the same time that billions are being prepared for the new armaments programmes? When they prepare through the funds of the recovery fund to give the business groups ‘hot money’ and sports clubs only EUR 12 million? It is an insult to amateur unions, what the Minister said, that anyone who wants to come and asks for the state's wallet cannot come. We are talking about unions which have declared their participation and which are registered in the regions and associations and federations are at the General Secretariat of Sports. Just the electronic record comes to reduce state funding and to put businessmen in the field of amateur sport and control him. You know the situation in amateur sport is sad. As much as you don't want to say, no matter how much you want to hide it, it's sad. We're talking about dangerous fields. The athletes are exposed, without medical attention, to the risk that they are injured in ruining a fortune to cover the costs of hospitalization and rehabilitation until they lose their job. The border teams are falling because they can't handle it. You don't know that? Now access to sport becomes very difficult for everyone. Many unions of the AUSE and of course throughout Greece - and not just football - say they won't come down to the championships. They're warning about leaving if they don't get help from the state. Even on 4 September - I think you have learned it, but you have bypassed it, ignore it - a joint meeting of groups took place on the basis of the impasse of local football and the uncertain future prescribed by pandemic. All groups expressed their concern at the new operational protocols to be followed, their high costs and the long and dysfunctional preparation of the teams. With this, then, the data, concern is also the economic difficulty that has reached the whole of the local football, and on the basis of the above it has been decided at this meeting by the groups to claim from you: - it is not only the Communist Party of Greece that says so, it is the clubs themselves - : Free arbitrations for the entire World Championship 2020-2021, the cost of which must be covered by the State as a whole, free medical coverage of the matches, free coverage of the costs of carrying out the COVID -19 tests to athletes, free of charge of frequent disinfections in all sports areas by caring for the region. Who's signing it? AE Katsampa - you know them, you are also from Heraklion - Antheist Thracians, Gortina, Malia, Moires - your regions - OF Arkalochori, PAO Krononas, Roman Elias, Tritonia Astritsi, Tubaki. They are the regions themselves, Minister, and they sign this text. So the government is also systematically deaf in this scream of agony and the danger of putting a "luke" into an unprecedented economic suffocation that makes their sustainability impossible. And we ask you reasonablely: do you not know these? Haven't you been told? You're saying that I don't even care about the municipalities, it's about the Ministry of the Interior, etc. Why? Where are we? Aren't we addressing the government? So are you not interested in how the municipalities and regions should act on football clubs and sports clubs as a whole? Are you looking at what you can't answer me is referred to other ministers? Aren't you aware of the financial problems all these groups face? In our opinion - and we say it clearly - there is a time-consuming plan from all the governments - you just came and took all the dirty work - to dismantle amateur sport and turn it into a field of profitability of an oligarchy of sport. This goal is also served by the law you brought - and I told you - and you reached the terrible level of cannibalism to put athletes against athletes, factors against actors, all against everyone. It's unacceptable behavior that torpedoes Greek amateur sport. Finally, let me say that there are also many problems for the coaches of the amateur groups. You know, the scourge of uninsured and black labor proved to be very damaging and coaches were not even part of the minimum support measures announced by the government. At the same time, phenomena of redundancies, early releases of coaches have been observed without money being paid for which they have worked and continue to work unhappily. And the suggestions that have been submitted to you are timely and necessary and you are deaf, turn off your ears, throw away the ball in the cradle and remake the same and the same. We are talking about insurance cover for all diplomat coaches and graduated TEFA trainers with football specialty working in male categories of amateur clubs and academies of developmental age, the right to compensation for coach in case of dismissal by their teams. To finance all amateur clubs through the General Secretariat of Sports and to take additional measures to protect the health of athletes, coaches, etc. So these are proposals all over the sport world, of the amateur world you're deafing on, trying to create a false image that you've been revolutionizing in the field of sport, amateur sport, and you're actually turning it like the face of professional sport - so to speak - that's, the opacity, the champagne and the interlocutory. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u17	I understand Mr Syntagakis' difficulty in answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u18	I meant before, the face of professional sport, not yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u19	What's to answer? Just justify the unjustified. It took three times as much time as expected, Mr President, and I imagine that I will have the same treatment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u20	And I left you. I don't want any complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u21	Answer what? In arguments - he says - fake. But you have voted against provisions - that is not disproved - concerning athletes and amateur sport. You voted against provisions in the recent bill. These do not require any ideological approach differently to understand what and how. You have voted against specific provisions. I mentioned it earlier. Also - it's amazing - you miss this: Twelve years had not even taken 1 euros of amateur unions from the state. Twelve years later our government, by order and with the approval of our own Prime Minister, came to us, and we are strengthening them, but in order, with transparency and households. And that you forget. It's all right, Mr. Covenant! I get it. I also understand that you probably don't know from technology or you don't want to say that the number of unions you asked me won't tell you, you will be making the trouble of entering the Sports Secretariat's page as much information as you want, because it's no longer secret, it's not the Minister's property, as you and many other colleagues from other political wings have said. It's in knowledge and at the disposal of all those who want to know which amateur unions have pre-registered, it's all right, they have a complete file and everything else. Nothing secret, all housewives, with transparency and, above all, with democracy. I guess that's what you miss, but that's all right, that's how we go and that's the policy we're following. About the opportunity now that you have given me to answer our actions for the sports landscape that has been formed in our special homeland in Heraklion, you have played and lost, once again. I would point out that if we followed the model you invoke, we would give father's money anywhere without being able to control. Do you approve of this? I guess not. Does the Greek taxpayer approve of this? I guess not. He wants to know - and he does well - where he goes 1 euro, which goes out of his pocket through taxation and we want to end up in healthy, legitimate amateur sport. That's what we're doing. I imagine that you have no other view, Mr Syntagakis, and that is because there is a great deal of mismatch among the federations that the federations have said and what they really do exist or then they will be legalised. However, for the time being these numbers, which I presented to you on Thursday at noon and which are constantly being updated, are quite different from those stated by the federations in the previous debates that we had during the quarantine period, where we were preparing for the register. I would like to say to you that, since you have dealt with this, we are told that we have in Greece about four to five thousand amateur unions, so far only eight hundred and fourteen - and I am addressing you, Mr President, who know you are interested - while in Crete we have only twenty-six and in Heraklion seven. For basketball, the EEC has told us that it has a huge number of unions that passes two thousand, and until now only three hundred eighty-two and fifteen in Crete. A hundred seventeen unions have been registered in sailing, from Crete to just seven. SEGAS has signed two hundred thirty unions - regardless of what they said, but what is true - from Crete just nineteen. Two hundred and thirty-nine unions have been signed from Crete just thirteen. The Pool Federation is two hundred four unions, from Crete only thirteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u22	Everything else is a monkey, is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u23	And since you referred to football, there are groups of Heraklion that have responded warmly and have succeeded and been included in the list of General Sports Secretariat. The teams are the amateur OFH, the amateur Ergotel, P.O. Achaleniou, Poros, Poseidon, Paliani, PDO and, of course, we warmly thank them. We also expect other football teams and, where necessary, workers, staff of the General Secretariat of Sports are willing to help everyone. They are doing so with great pleasure and with great satisfaction and warm thanks for the cooperation. Heraklion's sports community experiences the same adversities, the same struggles as the country's entire sports family. Despite the difficulties, however, it is active in the national effort of sport reform and it is making encouraging samples of development and, above all, I congratulate the administrative factors that give time from their time, money from their pockets, which, of course, end up in the amateur sport of our country. But also in the infrastructure sector - since you mentioned - all the municipalities of Heraklion are taking the lead in the field of upgrading sports facilities, either by modernising their existing structures, but also by creating new ones. This is the way, after all, so that regions can become a point of attraction for attracting small and medium-sized sports events and encouraging more and more people to sport. I'm doing a little parentheses here. It is completely incomprehensible and dangerous that the decision of the SCO - recently - completely withdraws the Greek candidacy of the Pancretian Stadium to host the final of the newly established Europa Conference League, which was also a premise for the anointing of UEFA. Nevertheless, it is unresolved that our commitment to upgrade the Panghretio Stadium and to proceed in cooperation with the Municipality of Heraklion, the Region of Crete, as well as the sports and productive operators of our island in all the necessary tasks so that it very soon has the international standards and can claim important events, as is appropriate in our country. We don't stay with your hands crossed. I am not going to mention, of course, briefly because of time pressure on infrastructure projects, which are at your disposal whenever you want to be informed. I hope you know that you are carefully reading what is happening throughout Heraklion, step by step, municipality - municipality. In conclusion, I would like to express my great satisfaction and unsatisfactory support to the Municipality of Heraklion, who is considering submitting a candidate for the 21st Mediterranean Games, a great sporting event for the Mediterranean basin countries. It goes without saying that, as a state, we will support the proposal with all our powers. Besides, taking over an organisation is a national effort and our Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has as absolute priority extroversion and attracting sports events to our country. I hope that Crete, our country, will win this organization. Of course, we will be helpless and it is self-evident to support all the effort that the municipality and the region and every municipality and every region in our country will do. We are together because we are really fighting for our country's healthy sports landscape, and that is why we are working methodically and with absolute transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u24	Thank you too, Mr Ausgeakis. I wish your wishes would be caught and you could upgrade the "Pangretio". But we should also play some team to support it. And now we move on to the second question under number 1046/17-9-2020 of the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Provocative debt deletion from Piraeus Bank to the business interests of Mr. Piladaki". Mr. Giannoulis, good morning! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u25	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you very much, as I thank the Deputy Minister of Finance for making us the honour of being here to answer this timely question. Of course, to tell the truth, I did not have much hopes that Mr Stagioras would come after the last question of consultation or inconsistency with his colleague, Minister of Economy, as to whether or not he is financially managed by a new lockdown or not. Objections to this government are unprecedented. However, the result of these disagreements is always at the expense of the citizens. Mr President, we are discussing a topical question today on the basis of the revelation of the paper 'DOCUMENTO'. I would remind you that it is the newspaper that was punished by your colleague Mr. Petsa, who found himself in an unprecedented role of overseer of economic data and media aid, a real role of caretaker reminiscent of George's film "The dirt was painted red", where he punished the workers according to their behaviour. It appears that the 'DOCUMENTO' was a particularly free spirit for the logic of the 'prosecutor', Mr. Petsa, and was punished with exclusion from the EUR 20,000,000, the well-known 'Petssas paper 19'. It is the same Minister who yesterday found out to be organized by SYRIZA who denounced Mr Mitsotakis. I will remind you of the video where the President of SYRIZA enters a damaged store and the owner spontaneously says: "Mr. President, I am a neo-democrat, I am voting for a New Democracy, but three days here in Karditsa have left us at the mercy of God." Because the mercy of God is both the banking system and its relationship with healthy businessmen, Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In my question, we are not specifically targeting Mr Piladakis, we are not targeting entrepreneurs. We aim for the way of thinking and action, the way of political influence and tolerance of the Greek Government as regards the operation of the banking system. I prevent your reply that it is independent and that it is supervised by the Bank of Greece and I am giving a parentheses from your favourite economic operator, Mr. Yiannis Stournaras. All of this is accepted. But, you know, in this society, politics and understanding can take a greater dimension and effectiveness in order to protect the public interest and, above all, public money. As you know, banks are today the weak link of the economy. We keep seeing arrangements, graceful arrangements. I can remember the "CARRYK OF CHANGES", I can remember the loans of the parties, I can remember the great crime of 2010 when the credit control of the borrowers was a joke for the governments of that time. And today we have come to have a private debt of 250 billion. That was the big crime that I hope history will record at some point. And today, access to good, advantageous regulations in the banks and even in the Piraeus Bank, can only be achieved by a simple person, only if his passport has been sealed by New Democracy. And behind this lies the non-controlling of the Bank of Greece, the tolerance of Mr Stournara and then of liquidity on the market only the requests made by the Minister of Development, the pleas and nothing else. And all this is happening, Minister, at a time when we have market deregulation, unemployment, recession, indifference, fragmentation, fear, inability, transparency and the end deadlock. But that's not true for everyone. So the challenge comes at this juncture. The challenge - I shall describe it in simple terms - is this: A businessman, as 'DOCUMENTO' reveals', who has three casinos and EUR 149.5 million loan obligations, with five hundred employees - for whom we are committed to making the impossible moves from the position that they are now in, such as the employees in the Casino Thrace, who are due to them EUR 400,000 on wages - goes with the bank's tolerance and assent in this way: three casinos, EUR 149.5 million. What does the setting say now? There are also 33 million euros in debt of an older loan - we will see that later - and tens of millions of debts to the ECA. The result, Minister, is EUR 125 million -125 million for those who do not understand it! - out of 149.5m euros proposed to be deleted. The Bank's assent and the company's proposal will lead to justice. I do not doubt, of course, how the person concerned himself asked for a postponement, while he was to be tried in Greek justice on 6 October. What will this company pay out of EUR 149.5 million for its business? We are talking about 23.7 million euros in twenty-two years and a six-year grace period! I say this again: From EUR 149.5 million, surely EUR 11 million will be repaid and another EUR 12 million will be made if certain real estates located in the Bank are sold. It is difficult for the equation to be zero, i.e. balance. It's cheaper than real estate. But, in any case, it provides for the regulation to be paid in twenty-two years, Mr President, with a six-year grace period! To secure jobs, talk. Work relationships, conversations. Development, development plan? Dome, to the most unlikely. Is that what you rely on as a practice and as a government, Minister? Is that what you want for the bank's entrepreneurship and attitude towards small and medium-sized enterprises? Is this how you tolerate the Bank of Greece going through impeccable agreements and conventions to be judged by the judiciary? Yes, even if justice will judge them, but justice when it comes to the agreement and one with a number of belligerent economic survival studies, it can easily result in a positive decision. The problem isn't there. The problem is who controls these agreements. Mostly, Minister, at last in this place, who controls the operators, namely the nightmare of the banking system and the economy, Giannis Stournara?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Giannoulis. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Here, Mr. Zabves, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u27	Good morning, Mr. President. I thank Mr Giannoulis for the question. This question gives us the opportunity to clarify who does what is appropriate and for that and for any other debates. First of all, I am here and it is not Mr Stavros, not because he is hiding or for any other reason, but because I am the State Secretary responsible for financial matters and you know it. So let's talk the way we need to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u28	I didn't say he was hiding. I said he's got others...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u29	As you know, the Ministry of Finance does not exercise prudential supervision - the so-called prudential supervision - of banks. The Ministry of Finance supervises the proper functioning of the banking system and improves it by the legislative proposals and laws that the House is voting on. However, the prudential supervision of credit institutions and so-called ‘systemic credit institutions’, i.e. the four major banks, one of which is also your topical question, is carried out by the Single Supervisory Mechanism of the European Central Bank, the so-called SSM in Frankfurt. So we have from here and there all, if you want, the guarantees that are needed for any supervisory function. For non-systemic banks, the Bank of Greece shall be responsible. Each credit institution shall have an obligation to have risk management and internal control procedures and to have the administrative bodies which control the adequacy and compliance of these procedures. In particular, the issues relating to the granting and management of the loans to which you refer concern the policy of procedures of each credit institution. It's his case first. From there on, the competent supervisory authority, in our case, the European supervisor, assesses the adequacy of risk management and internal control procedures and takes the measures necessary to cover the risks arising from the required funds. At the same time, there is also a very detailed and rigorous Union legislation, which applies to all systemic banks. In fact, this European supervisory authority is able to make recommendations if it finds some weaknesses in a bank and assess each bank's internal control systems on individual loans so that credit institutions can take corrective action in this regard. If they do not, there are penalties. I would like to say to you that they are always in the Greek banks with the competent bodies of the European supervisor and exercise thorough supervision. The data controlled by the supervisory authority - that is, the European Parliament - relating to loans to specific natural or legal persons to whom you refer are covered by professional secrecy and not communicated to the Treasury. We, in other words, cannot have any knowledge of these facts. I would also like to point out that according to its written reply to the Ministry, the bank, i.e. Piraeus Bank, has assured us that it has so far not made any debt write-offs of that debtor pending completion of the relevant procedural procedures, because, as you well know - and you mentioned it - the claims for resolution submitted by the debtors are validated only in court. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Zavez. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry. Don't go too far. You've told everything in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u31	Unfortunately, there is more to do, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u32	He doesn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u33	There's more. I can understand the difficult position of the Minister and thank him very much for the advice, for the teaching content of his position. Just, Minister, repeat a piece of what I said. The topical and urgent debate, however, was not about the procedures that were followed either at European or national level. Do you know why? Because my question and question are political transparency, honesty and sound management of public finances. And that is a political issue. I'm not saying that you're saying anything inaccurate, but I have an objection to the securitisation of properties. Clearly the European Central Bank controls systemic banks. If I am not mistaken, with my poor finances, it is represented in Greece by the Bank of Greece, whose governor is Mr Stournaras. I can't believe I'm wrong about that. Mr Stournaras also has technological and political experience to understand what he is in this categorised country of the ten-year crisis - which we are also heading into in third bankruptcy - to delete or try to delete 149 million loans. And let me, in this country, live, for the previous years, it can be imagined how these loans have been disbursed or some of them. So by repeating a part of what I have said - and I know and know we all know - I will insist on the question, and I would like to put it as a personal crisis or a dilemma: with the know-how you have, do you consider lending 149 million compatible with the logic of providing for a remission of 125 million into a business - that it is a gambling issue, I will not judge it - with five hundred workers? Because in his reply, Mr Piladakis, Minister, he magnifies and compares his business, by looking directly but clearly for what happened to the Syrian shipyards and to the supermarkets "Marinopoulos" - quite unlike sizes - very clearly at the expense of his arguments, because it was also done in other companies. Are we going to compare Mr. Piladakis' casinos with "Marinopoulou" and the thousands of workers, who on one night, because the owners were in Maldives, were found in an air void? That's none of your business. It's about the businessman himself. But I would like you to give me a personal answer. Do you consider it reasonable, at the time when the Minister for Development was kneeling in the banks to provide financing, to have liquidity, and indeed some aid in the form of micro- facilities - a legislative framework introduced by SYRIZA - wrote and validated by this Parliament, which is implemented by the Region of Central Macedonia, but not by the Government - to give 125 million? But because I want to be specific: the paper 'DOCUMENTO', Minister, revealed something else. And that is what I shall close, Mr President. It has not only revealed the request, it has not only revealed the content of the request, there are more gray shadows. I'll just tell you, narratively. Mr. Piladakis, who is neither our enemy nor our envy, perseverance or any personal confrontation, creates a new company, the company "KAZINO S.A.", in which from the total debt of 149.5 million will go through only the 23.7 million, which I mentioned, settled in twenty-two years with a six-year grace period. To achieve now the percentage of creditors who agree to the loan haircut - the law requires 60% of the creditors to agree - what does it do to get into the Banking Code? It adds debts from other companies. It adds debts to companies including - what a strange and prosperous system of banking, politics, football and the economy - and the debts of the "GENERAL S.A.". It's the stadium of a legendary, historical group of Larissa. These debts amount to 33 million, of which one part will be regulated, but at another stage. We also have a second phase of Mr Piladaki's settlement relations with the Piraeus Bank. So, if we are heard by the Bank of Greece, even by the European auditors, who, as you said, are intervening with the Bank of Greece's officials under Mr Stournara, to know that these amounts were included in the proposal put forward by this businessman at Piraeus Bank to enter the Banking Code. They're not transferred to the new company. The new company will be clean. It will have 23 million debts and the possibility of attracting 75% of new investors. It will be clean of debts, forgets the 125 million to the health of the Greek people, to the health of the Greek suckler and starts a new company with 75% for new investors and with few debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u34	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u35	You know what, Minister - and I'm closing down with it - we've heard from your side that legality is not always moral. In any case, we in this country may at some point dream that morality will go hand in hand with legality. The worst thing, however, which is created to me, Mr Minister, after the publication of the paper 'DOCUMENTO', which has been used to being punished by the Government of 'Kyrkykas' and the easy arrangements for loans for relatives, what creates the greatest intensity for me, Mr Minister, is that, not you, but some people used to say - will come to Parliament as well - that we sold Macedonia as a SYRIZA for pensions. It is time, Minister, to warn you - to use something similar that does not express us, but to make it perfectly understandable - for once again: do not sell the country for your powerful and friends and do not sell your soul. That's it. Give just one of those purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to repeat again that in relation to this particular case and the elements of Mr Giannoulis' question, the Ministry of Finance has no knowledge of this and I cannot give any opinion on this matter. I would, however, like to say about the other issues that Mr Giannoulis raised regarding transparency and the determination of the government to prosecute and strike any form of illegality, there must be no doubt. Most of all, however, on the issues that are the most critical problems in the banking sector, which this government has found to a large extent by the previous government, and here I am talking specifically about red loans, it has decided, acted, acted, acted, adopted and implemented policies that are at the moment paying off. I am referring to the program "HRAKLIS" that you know, which, within less than a year, has managed to integrate all four Greek systemic banks, into the most pertinent crisis facing our country and which has the results, so that we have more than 30 billion cumulated red loans, are at the moment reduced without being charged with a single euro by the Greek taxpayer. Because, as you know, the government with this system has been able to attract investors who will take the burden of this reduction on them. Alongside HERAKLI, systemic malpractices, batacks are being hit to a very large extent. This is a very crucial point, because HERAKLIS obliges the banks, which had accumulated and had not, if you like, opened files of various entrepreneurs, at this time to resort to and find significant solutions. Finally, we also have the Recovery Fund, which - we believe - will give a huge opportunity for a great transformation of the production fabric and the banking system. The second issue - and Mr Giannoulis referred to - was the microcredit law. You had it prepared, Mr. Giannoulis, it's true, but it's always who it is. We voted together, we did so and it is a great opportunity because we can now give liquidity to all those who are excluded from the banking system. At the same time, at the moment, we have adopted in a number of laws programmes that protect financial stability and above all our most vulnerable fellow citizens. I am thinking in particular of the implementation of the GEOGRAPHY programme, which helps thousands of our fellow countrymen. In conclusion, I would like to say something which also concerns transparency, rigour, the consistency with which the government approaches the banking system. In the next few days, we also bring the draft law on money laundering, the adaptation of the fifth directive and - if you like - several important provisions that strengthen the soundness, financial stability and in particular the transparency of our banking system. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Thank you both very much. Have a good time. The first under number 1041/15-9-2020, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Support measures for enterprises - workers, Poros and Galata Troisins", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The third, with number 1051/21-9-2020, is a top-level question of the first-round question of the Larissa Parliamentary Movement of Change, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct reinforcement of the farmers of Thessaly affected by the 'January', will not be debated as a result of an impediment by Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-23-S1-commons.u39	With the consent of this House at 10.26 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 24 September 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
