ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 9 October 2020. ‘A. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Direct restoration of extensive damage to the infrastructures of the Municipality of Almyros". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 1/15-10-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Support measures for the poor and the protection of the chronic suffering and the disabled". 3. The Question No 22/5-10-20, by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "The serious problems due to delays in the adoption of pension decisions". 4. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Following a seasonal aid to workers in the cultural and spectacle sectors". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2/5-10-2020 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening pensioners from the government with a possible cut of the one". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 27/5-10-20 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The indiscriminate violence against health". 3. The 16/5-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Without medical care for children in foster families." 4. The question by No 29/5-10-2020 of the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Ineffective the "GEVERA" programme for weak borrowers." 5. The 18/5-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Strengthening the depreciation of the “Third” park. I also have the honour to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics presents its reports to the public prosecutor's requests for authorisation to prosecute members of parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go through the procedure for the agenda, I have been asked to speak for one minute with the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 in order to make a statement and then we will enter the normal procedure today. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be extremely brief, as I promised you. Mr President, Mera25 informs you, as well as the Greek Parliament, that yesterday, during the announcement of the historic decision of Greek justice about this gang called "Golden Dawn", the Greek people, who were there and simply celebrated and applauded as politely as one can imagine, were completely attacked by forces of MATs, particularly hard. The aim of the attack was young children as well as older people. That is what happens, Mr President, and we are not the ones to say that this is unprecedented or inconceivable. It's been done before and it's gonna happen again. It's things that can happen at gatherings. What we believe - and we want to denounce it here in the Greek Parliament - cannot be the case, is an institutionally elected MEP of the Greek Parliament to go to the men of MATs - as happened yesterday in front of me - is asking them to stop hitting back, as the world was leaving now - said, "we are leaving, stop hitting" - and the men of MATs are calling on him. In his face they swear the whole House of Greeks and our democracy. We immediately asked the Minister for Civil Protection last night to retire all the responsible officers of MATs, as their men treated themselves to an institutionally elected representative of the Greek people in this way, and since Mr Chrysochidis did not do so until today, we are asking directly for the resignation of the same person. Thank you very much for the time and the opportunity, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u4	Mr Ragonisation, I have to get on the agenda. That was a statement, which had a certain purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u5	I'd like to make a statement, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u6	We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Amendment Code of Greek citizenship, a new framework for selecting administrations in the public sector, regulation of organisational issues of the General Secretariat of Citizenship and the General Secretariat of Human Resources Public Sector of the Ministry of the Interior, arrangements for the development perspective and the proper functioning of the local government bodies". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 1 October 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u7	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u9	Before we begin the procedure, it will take the floor to give some clarification, as requested, the Minister, and immediately thereafter, Mr Ragosi will give you the floor. The Minister takes the lead in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because we have entered the agenda. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I have asked you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u11	Listen, Mr Ragossi, the procedure is set when it begins. Here, we have not started and you are asking for the floor on a point of order. Will you take the floor before we enter the agenda?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u12	You have already given the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u13	The reason was given was very early through the president...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u14	This handling doesn't honor you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u15	All right! The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. I take the floor at first, as we make some legislative improvements. I want to refer to one of them. I think it is one of the main points discussed in the committee, and they have problematic public debate and consultation that has taken place, and I think it has to be known in this House since the beginning of today's plenary debate. I am referring, in particular, to Article 3 and paragraph 2, which stated: ‘The amount of the minimum declared annual income which may not be less than the annual total of the monthly earnings of the unskilled worker shall be determined by decision of the Secretary-General. This corresponds to an amount of around EUR 7,700 annual income.’ Following the debate, we are tabling the legislative improvement, which replaces Article 3(2), and says: ‘In a decision of the Minister of the Interior, the specific elements which constitute the presumption of economic and social integration of the applicant for the period considered shall be defined.’ We are moving on to this improvement, because, as life has shown, we cannot, by law, cover every occasion in the country and in humanity in connection with the economic situation, the economic recession that we have experienced, for example, lately because of the horn pandemic and the overall consequences of the coronary pandemic. We believe that in this way we regulate in measure and logic a problem that could be created and would make it forbidden for a very large number of people who wish to become Greek and who complement all the other presumptions provided for in the Code of Citizenship, as well as the reform that we are moving forward with today's legislation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u17	Put it down, Minister, in the Minutes. I think it is very important for the Minister to take the lead in the first place. Because - you know - we have been serving this Parliament for many years, many of us, and we have protested why legislative improvements should be given too late or, at the end, many times. And I'm talking about a long-term mentality. They were therefore given at the outset so that both the rapporteurs and the special speakers and my fellow Members can be present. And now, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor to correct the designation. But you do not have much experience in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u18	Let go of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u19	When the subject of the agenda comes up, I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u20	You have to be careful, Mr President, not to go into your decisions, to give the floor to Parliament's representative and to deny him to Civicism. Yesterday, Mr President, a new golden anniversary was actually born for democracy, for justice for the anti-fascist conscience of Greek society. Thanks to the blood of this child, the old son of Keratsini, Paul Physsa, was again watered the eternal tree of democracy. And since yesterday, thanks to the struggle for legal, social, collective, political, journalistic in all previous years, the Golden Dawn is finally doomed as a criminal organization. On the basis of the oldest Criminal Code, the Golden Dawn and its leaders - which were to be condemned as members of a criminal organisation and for this address - were to be deprived of their political rights only after an irrevocable decision, namely only after the tertiary level of judicial crisis. So on the basis of the old Criminal Code, it would not be possible for the Golden Dawn and its members to deprive themselves of their political rights by yesterday's decision, as it will finally be specified according to the penalties to be imposed. On the basis of the new Criminal Code, the scientific committee drafted it has formulated the view that the deprivation of civil rights is a matter of electoral law, that is, most importantly, a matter of responsibility for the Minister for the Interior's legislative initiative. Because the circumstances are excellent and very important and I am making an amendment from the President of the SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance and from the whole of our parliamentary group to the Minister of the Interior by noon to table an amendment for the deprivation of the political rights of the Golden Dawn criminals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u21	Please! Don't make me name colleagues. It's not good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u22	And I would also like to inform the Minister and the House of some older Members of the Golden Dawn and of the views of the Golden Dawn who are now shouting that if he does not do so by noon, then we will table our own parliamentary amendment, which we will ask for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u23	I have first seen many Members of Parliament who are asking for the floor. And in the order I saw, first I saw Mr. Synthraki on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, I saw Mr. Kamine on behalf of KINAL, I saw Mr. Buga on behalf of the New Democracy, Mr. Hetas from the Greek Solution, and I do not know if he wants - I have not been asked - Mr. Grigoriadis. So all the parliamentary representatives will take the floor. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, the court's unanimous verdict confirmed in a categorical and clear way that the Golden Dawn is a Nazi, criminal organization and criminalised the Golden Killers. Turns out they're criminals because they're fascists! This is the right to the memory of Paul Bryssa, the Egyptian fishermen, the trade unionists of the FAME. It is a right to the memory of thousands of fighters, democrats, patriots, communists, who have died of terrible torture in prisons and exiles from the Golden Ancestors. We must not forget that our country is blood-watered by the murderous action of those who did not hesitate to admit that they are the heirs and the defeaters of 1945, that is to say they are fascists. They're enthusiasts, and they never admitted it, at least in here. That is why, from this point of view, we believe that their condemnation must be accompanied by the exemplary punishment, which is the imposition of maximum penalties and thus be brought to prison. This is the palatial demand, the demand of the labour, people's movement, the families of the victims, the family of the Paul Bridge, to condemn the enthusiastic Nazis. The Communist Party of Greece welcomes the tens of thousands of people and youth throughout the country, in Athens, in other cities that have protested. From there on, however, the people must draw their conclusions, be ready and not be comforted, have their ears and eyes open to face evil at their roots, by overthrowing a system that incites the snake's egg, Nazism and fascism. We know that the best greenhouse of Nazi organisations is anti-communism and the construction of the theory of the two extremes, which is the official policy of the European Union, a policy that you all share in it here. Because especially in times. like the one we are going through, which is increasingly uncovering the deadlocks of the present system, the more they will retract such kinds of noodles of the system, such as Golden Dawn. But no one washes away. And the strange statements made by Members here in interviews, for example Mr Loverdos, who says that we have homicide, but when a case lies in justice, politics has no place at all. It's like it's not a political matter! Of course the governments of PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZANELs, with their own delay in the trial of the Golden Dawn, are not unleashed, so they have been released for years. There are no party stalks that reproduce the theory of both ends and give butter to bread for fascists. Of course it is not all those sidelines that we have seen in the past on the farewell islands, along with the golden ones, in the name of the patrons of a national confederation, and it is hypocrisy for SYRIZA to come today, and since June 2019, before the end of the term of the Parliament, to build a new Criminal Code, with which the sentences for the crime of the criminal organisation management have been changed, by creating conditions for the pitfalling of the chrysayites. So let the people draw their conclusions. It is timely as never before the words of the poet “Fascism deeply understand him. He won't die alone. Knock him out!’ That's the folk requirement. That is the message given by the people in every direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u25	Do you agree with our amendment, Mr Syndrome?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u26	I've been placed, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u27	As requested by the series, unless you disagree, Mr Kamines has asked for the floor as Parliamentary representative of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Here, with what we have heard from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, the intelligence of all of us is underestimated and Parliament itself is underestimated. What we have heard is unacceptable. We knew it very well that the irrevocable decision of the court is a precondition, but the Criminal Code has been reappointed for years. The question was raised on several occasions also by science, that is where we would end up. He put it - after all we learn after all - the Minister for Justice himself. If they are now invoking, underestimating this House in this way, in order to remove their responsibilities, if they are invoking electoral law, they have had them to do so all the time in electoral law. That's all I'm upsetting, and too much. Because what we heard yesterday about the episode, you are responsible, Mrs. Gerovas. You've had all the years these fascist lockers to pull them out. You and you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u29	Look at the enemy, not SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u30	You personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kamine, please address me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u32	They had to do it all the time, Mr President. We had anticipated that. And that's why we left the vote on this Criminal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Mr. Buga, the Minister has asked for the floor, and then I will give it to you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the opinion that it would be better for all of us to keep a strong image of the unity of the Greek people in the victory of democracy and respect for justice. This was yesterday's picture throughout the country, in the country that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has ensured the completion of this trial and the administration of justice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is the truth and reality and cannot hide from anyone and in no way. But the Parliamentary spokesman for the Police Department wanted, before the court's side even completed the full award of sentences and the full picture of the administration of justice, to have a very bad level trade, in a very rough and impatient manner, obviously having to draw impressions from what all Greeks should have had to keep them very high. So you obligate me, Mr. Representative of the Police Department, to remind the House, which I am sure is fully remembered, and to tell the Greeks who may have been following these debates in this House, that it was the SYRIZA government that turned the sentences for a criminal organisation's address, voting last days before you left the new Criminal Code - it was ten to twenty years and you did it five to fifteen - and by depriving the band of the deprivation of civil rights as a whole from the Criminal Code. This is your work and what you are going to do today to ask you as a government with the Criminal Code. So instead of doing your self-criticism for what you have done, you come here today and ask for the change from the Minister of the Interior and the Government of New Democracy. How courageous, Mr. Ragosi!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u35	You've reduced the sentences!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u36	So let us keep the image of its true unity, let us keep the image of unity and democracy. The Greeks remember during the days what government was launched to have the decision of independent justice yesterday. He wrote: "Minister of Foreign Affairs Antonis Samaras, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government Evangelos Venizelos, Minister of Public Order Nikos Dendias". That's the truth and the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u37	And Secretary General Takis Baltakos! You forgot about that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u38	And there was also a candidate president, gentlemen, of democracy, Mr Stavros Dimas, who told the MPs and the Greek people that he would never want to be elected by the votes of the Golden Dawn. This is because what each one is proves by deeds not by words at the time of a celebration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u39	Mr Bougas has the floor as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Greek society has shown that it does not tolerate ideologies of hatred and racism. The Greek state has shown that it has the courage to prosecute, judge fairly and punish soberly those who attempted to hurt democratic institutions by committing criminal acts. But, Mr President, I will say that during my speech as a parliamentary representative. What I would like to point out, after what Mr Ragus said, is that this is an unfortunate and unfortunate attempt to deprive SYRIZA of what he did at the time it was government. Today he resigned the member of the Central Committee, the political committee of SYRIZA and former Minister of Justice Mr. Kontonis and resigned by denouncing these methods that were then taken. In fact, in his resignation he says that everything he said today had put it in time for SYRIZA's leadership. That is to say, you have known how dangerous it is to reduce the penalties for the establishment and leadership of a criminal organisation and, in fact, to punish the leaders of the criminal organisation with the sentences of the ordinary member, as well as it was completely inappropriate and dangerous and researchable if it was wrongly done that there is no subsequent penalty for the deprivation of civil rights. Mr President, the subsequent penalty for depriving civil rights - and Mr Ragus and those in the SYRIZA are ignoring this - is a legal, but, above all, moral disapproval. So this moral disapproval, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have rejected it, allowing the members of the Golden Dawn today to say that their political rights have not been denied. And what do they come looking for today? They underestimate this whole process of depriving civil rights - which I would point out is, apart from legal and moral disapproval - and consider that this should be introduced at electoral level, electoral law, so as to establish incompatible. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy from the outset has stated in its parliamentary attitude and in its government service that it will not allow such cultures to tempt our society and divide the Greek people again. So he will do what is constitutional and institutionally appropriate to ensure that people like those who had the lead of the Golden Dawn do not again be able to have a public say, not to promote their ideology, but rather to advertise illegal acts, as they have done. We have never been fomented - and we are not going to indulge - parliamentary and non-parliamentary behaviours like those of the Golden Dawn. I think you should do your self-criticism today. Instead of a lot of hypocrisy to come to Parliament, to dismiss the responsibilities you have, it would be better to admit them, to confess them, to go further, not to relive such phenomena, not to relive such situations in Greek society. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u41	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, we have nothing to do with this. We're really all breathing more freely today. We hit the snake in the head. It's a beautiful day today, but the political system doesn't mind. It is terrible for the parties to try the day that justice triumphed, only triumphed and did their job and sent to prison these offenses, fascists and Nazis, to try to scour the success of justice. And they go to party and vote for the huge success of Greek justice. Only the Greek Solution, only Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos yesterday with an official statement said that no one should pluck this success of justice nor exert pressure, because we are quiet and confident and trust in justice that she will do her job. Alas, there were Greek judges who would not punish these political scumbags, the scumbags of society, the fascists. And it became the self-evident thing. And we're coming here today and our logic is rushing again. People see these things. Everyone hopes that such phenomena will not appear again, but no one wonders from you what phenomena have pushed the world into this matter and power the eagle of the snake and gets four hundred thousand votes. We're pushing people there. We need to have a serious profile outwards. It's not SYRIZA's victory, it's not Varoufakis' victory, it's not Koutsouba's victory, Velopoulos, Mitsotakis, or Gennamata's victory. It's a victory of justice, democracy and reason. That's it and we're moving on. The SYRIZA cannot come and complain in here about the lack of civil rights when you voted for it. You're rushing our senses, it's unreasonable what you're doing. Don't worry, don't take advantage of anything. Let's all breathe freely. It's a nice day today. And let us show a serious person to the political system, to the Greek citizens, that democratic parties, here we can act in favour of democracy, of interest, of logic, of each one with his programme and leave the "courts" on the side. It is really a disgrace to all other Greek parties, apart from the Greek Solution, to say "no, Dendia and Samaras brought it". SYRIZA? Five and a half years we have waited, ladies and gentlemen, for the trial to take place! 'No, the lawyers had a strike', 'No, we had no rooms', 'No, the COVID came', not one, not the other. Well, let's go show another face. We are addressing the Greek people, Mr President. And it really is a historic moment that we should all take advantage of it. It was the desecration of justice yesterday. No right to the Government of New Democracy. No vindication for SYRIZA. No dues for the JRC. None! It was the right to reason. What does logic say? In a democratic country like Greece, we have confidence in justice and did its job. Just mind, so that we don't give people the right again to run around and get lost on the way, to stay here in the temple of democracy. All of you assume your responsibilities. The Greek Solution is clear on this. And, Minister, we have the power, we legislate, we change it and we will also deprive civil rights. It's up to us, just move on. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. After saying, of course, that yesterday's day for democracy, our justice, our freedom, after reminding us that fateful fate is not from yesterday, but since he was murdered, he has entered the whole of the heroes of this country, it is, in our opinion, the last hero, after Saviour Petroula, to say that, in our opinion, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA has done no harm since he was murdered, Mr President, since he should not remind the House of the Greeks that by means of a Criminal Code of the Government of SYRIZA they are in danger of having political rights, if they take small sentences, the primarys of this gang. He should be apologizing. That is our opinion, saying 'I'm sorry, we were wrong'. I would remind you - as the previous speakers have said - that Mr Contonis, with his statement, has warned him, as he says in his statement to the Prime Minister himself about the problems that will arise from this Criminal Code and therefore it is at least hypocritical that SYRIZA as a opposition today asks the New Democracy to bring such an amendment. On the other hand, since you rule, dear friends of the New Democracy, it is never too late to correct a political mistake. It would be advisable if these monsters were not given political rights. Also, Mr. Theodorikos, Mr. Minister, I would like to remind you that the calendar, apart from Antonis Samaras and the "Government of the New Democracy", was also written "Director of the political office of Prime Minister, Mr. Panagiotis Baltakos". He has given Mr. Cassidy the publicity of videos discussing how the two parties cooperated if he has escaped your memory. I also have to remind you that although in fact on Mr. Dendia's day this story began, that is to say, to unite all cases in one, yet a few months ago, because as we all know, the Physsa was murdered on 18 September in Keracini, but in January of the same year that was also the Samaras government in Petralona, a Pakistani fellow man, Sahzat Ljuman was murdered. We did not have the same government of the New Democracy and of Mr Samaras to show the same sensitivity as he was not human because he happened to be Pakistani. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u45	He asked for the floor to be given to the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, there is now a debate on the commonly recognized historic milestone of condemning the leaders of the Golden Dawn as a criminal organization, which really gives great encouragement, great support to justice, democracy and, of course, to the anti-fascist movement, especially in our times that we are all monitoring internationally, that there are signs because of the many crises that exist and because of the great fear in societies, etc. to strengthen what is called ‘right and right-wing radicalisation’. This is a very important decision. I have taken the floor to remind the House of something that concerns us all, regardless of whether several of you were not in the previous years in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the House was present and was present with broad consensus on the democratic arch in the four and a half years, so that the action of the Golden Dawn can be relegated, we can reach the decision through the court and have the result today. Allow me one parentheses, because these days I have read too much from an effort made by the government and by willing journalists, who are also targeting the murder of political characters, etc. I'll speak with facts. When we were preparing the Constitution and the Revision of the Constitution - Mr Kamines is missing, I heard him earlier - there was indeed a view in the public area that the Golden Dawn, which only in Germany exists as a precedent in the Constitution, would be illegal. This issue has not been raised in the debate which has even been passed by no political force, because it was precisely the full agreement that those natural judges who, with the cover and wrapping of a political party were a criminal gang, should receive the strictest penalty of hell and their registration as a criminal gang. Hold that. In the House, Mr President - and you know that, because we had cooperated, as with all the Vice-Presidents - the issues had come from 2012, when they had been tabled here by the Observatory against racism, all the documentaries for eighty two attacks in 2010, 2011, 2012 that had been made. The answer that we had then been given to parliamentary scrutiny was that only two or three of these events - I speak before the Bridge murder - were in the process of examination. We arrived where we arrived to arrest the Golden Dawn leadership. I would like to point out that the question of not lifting precedents of their immunities, as was the issue of the financing of this party, has been a broad consensus so that - and this is why we are talking about the 10-million pending now - cut off the umbilical cord with money, which was very important for the functioning of this organisation, but also make it possible for the prosecution authorities at the time and for the prosecutors and prosecutors to proceed quickly with this examination. In the last four years, Mr President, one can refer to the Minutes of the previous part-session. I am proud to have been President during this part-session and to have these gentlemen and ladies presently fought in this House by parties, by officials, by MPs. We have taken the right to represent the country abroad, namely the Members' missions that were outside, repeatedly and after pressing controversy in public, we have taken them into the code of conduct and there has been a penal code on this issue and penalties that have been brought to them. Of course we were also present to denounce the efforts, particularly the last attempt to force the House to enter the House from five different points where they exploited the mass rally that was made on the Ambassadors' agreement and suffered that attack. Look at all this and this four-year diary. It will not be found - in my opinion - nor a blemish, which tarnishes and blurs the mood of a broad democratic spectrum towards this gang. Also, because a lot of ink has been spilled - and I am sorry, because the New Democracy party has officially embraced something that is completely false - that, within the sitting of the House, when we were discussing the law of my simple analogy, I said that there are welcome and unacceptable votes, look at the Minutes to see at these meetings how in an answer to a channel which I had asked on this point, I said that, of course, the votes are not divided, but we are not asking for the votes of the Golden Dawn. And of course, the Golden Dawn blocked the simple proportional vote. No, it was not just that there was no correlation or discussion, but also because of the votes of the Golden Dawn and other parties the proposed majority of which existed from the Greek Constitution did not pass. These are the facts. On every aspect, I repeat, well-meaningly - and not through the various panels or the make news, we can very thoroughly discuss whether there was any, for our part, oligopoly. I want to tell you about the delay in the trial. Ask or see, say they do a document, what they have said about how this trial lasted, all the actors in the trial, i.e. the judiciary when we heard them, the indictment lawyers and all the journalists. It was quite clear that such an unprecedented trial, where - because I had attended several meetings - for example, all the questions and questions of the Members of the Golden Dawn have been read in Parliament in the unreadable documents and a number of other reasons, was indeed this moderate delay, but not for reasons due to the House or the closure of an eye to be clear from any force, let alone the government power. In here - and I say this for the first time, the leader of this anti-fascist movement is aware of it for the first time, the heroine Magda Bryssa - in this building - and I repeat to you that I now say it after the decision - the steps have been taken to find solutions and to speed up as quickly as possible, through the final decision taken that the Chamber should be given exclusively for this trial and that the judges should be free from other cases, so that they can finish it. Here, then, these counsels, efforts and predictions have been made. I could tell you a lot more, you saw my style, but I don't want to create a splitting climate. But it is completely false, based on all the evidence in the House that the House was absent, that the House did not understand how Parliament was acting as if this party were the same with the rest. It is wrong and it is not only about the power that is governed at that time, that is to say, SYRIZA, but also about the colleagues of the New Democracy and other parties, and I would ask you before making announcements or narratives that go into the current political controversy to ask, to have the opinion and knowledge of all those who then played a role here and on behalf of your party. I considered it my obligation to the name and honour of the decision that came out and also to the honour of the effort made in the Greek Parliament to achieve this result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u47	I give the floor to Mr Ragosi again - so that he does not blame me again - and then I will give the floor to Mr Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u48	Many descriptions, Mr President, are very wise, but these citizens who are listening to us or who are going to learn this debate will in the end remain with one question, in contrast to all these insulting reports. Yesterday the Golden Dawn was condemned. Will there be deprivation of political rights from now on, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u49	You made sure it didn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u50	The truth cannot be dealt with by union in its genuine version. Because the truth is that with the previous Criminal Code deprivation of civil rights could be imposed on Golden Dawn, I repeat, only after the irrevocable decision. I mean, after years. And all those who today argue and use various arguments from the TV panels do not wonder what the essential issue is today, what is the political responsibility they take? Because if some people think that they are so easy to make fun arguments - to say it entirely popular - and that they will get away from their responsibility, they are wrong. Because this Penal Code, which has been cursed on several occasions, has been amended by this government and by this parliamentary majority, and there has been no amendment on these issues that we are debating today. A change of the Criminal Code was made months ago by the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. Why has the provision for the deprivation of civil rights not come back? Why has it not been proposed in the process of amending the Tri-Start Penal Code by any party that today releases designations and insults, to add such a provision? Why? To have this issue today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u51	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u52	We told you that the Scientific Committee working on the Criminal Code, rather than the SYRIZA officials, considered it to be a matter of electoral law. In the past, the electoral law laid down by the Ministry of the Interior, whether for self-government or for parliamentarians, has included such provisions. It does not matter now to list them. If anyone disagrees and does not think that it is a matter of electoral law, let the government that each so many brings out dozens of amendments on major social and political issues as an amendment to the Criminal Code. In the end, I will conclude by saying this. Today there is a possibility for the Greek Parliament, unanimously, to perpetuate and confirm its unity towards this criminal phenomenon that was condemned yesterday by Greek justice. All the excuses, all the tricks, all the arguments, will go aside and what will remain - if the government does not change its attitude - will be the question of why, today, the Greek Parliament unanimously - which did not do so by amending the new criminal code by this government - did not include in an amendment a provision for the deprivation of political rights of these criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u55	Mr Buga, he has asked for the floor and the Minister precedes it. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u56	On substance I have substantiated the answer of the Government and of the New Democracy, but because I see that the representative of the SYRIZA Police Office is insisting on duty, I would like to believe, Mr Colleague, that either as Secretary of the Central Committee of PASOK or, in any case, as a member of Parliament or even, above all, as a Greek citizen, you must know the constitution of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u57	PASOK, don't mess it up, we were PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u58	Then, Mr Constantinople, under Mr Papandreou's presidency, not today. So I read you, Mr Ragosi, from the Greek Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u59	...fake bitches!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u60	You're out of line.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u61	I look forward to it, Mr President, because I want it to be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u62	Please, be quiet from all sides. The Minister's talking, we all have to respect it. Please do not make exchanges of views on both sides. Continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u63	Article 51(3). The law may not limit the electoral right unless a age threshold has been reached or for incompetence of a legal act or as a result of irrevocable criminal conviction for certain crimes. Unsolved criminal conviction! I do not believe that anyone needs to be legal, to know what irrevocable criminal conviction means, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u64	And you abolished it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u65	You abolished it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u66	And you're talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u67	So, gather your trade union proposals, hold them for yourself...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u68	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Kegeroglu, please calm down. You have all taken the floor in relative comfort. Mr. Bougas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, the answer was given by the Minister, I would like to say this in addition. Unfortunately, Mr Ragus with his second arson position in Parliament has destroyed what he tried soberly - it is true - a reason for Mr Voutsis to build before. Because the second placement was worse than the first, and legally and politically more incorrect. To the question, Mr SYRIZA, if we are going to make sure that the doomed do not have any political rights anymore on the Golden Dawn, the answer is that you have made sure that this does not happen. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because then, for your days, this has been voted on. You are entirely responsible for this development. I would like to point out in addition to what the Minister said, Mr President, that in our criminal system, deprivation of civil rights was provided for as an incidental penalty. If, therefore, the relevant law providing for such a sentence is abolished from the execution of the crime until the irrevocable conviction, the most favourable of the law indictees it. So the answer is simple, but the responsibility is enormous and SYRIZA is entirely responsible for it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Listen to something, ladies and gentlemen. It is a good thing, so that the phenomena we are all consuming do not happen again, that we all remember what has been and what happened in the Chamber. Your predecessor, Mr President, from the Stepping of the House, if I am not mistaken, said that it was good to see the validity of the bills passed again because the then confiscated Members of the Golden Dawn were not present. You, as Secretary-General of SYRIZA, then, had you dealt with this statement by the President of Parliament? Mr President, in conclusion, no one wants on such an important day for democracy and justice to break the climate - let me and the unworthy expression - because fascism was not completely defeated, a manifestation of fascism was defeated yesterday. Fascism is here, it's present. In order to be able to defeat him, we need fights continuously, fights lasting. And the Members of Parliament should lead these struggles. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u71	You will allow me, Mr Pafile, because Mr Ragus has asked for the third time, to give him the floor. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor for only two minutes absolutely. I think you've all been at ease of time. I took time, but I never kept him. So I was violating the Rules of Procedure. Hot request to complete in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u72	What one can see in this debate is a systematic refusal by the government to accept this proposal, even with its own thinking. A politically well-meaning reaction today would be yes, but we do so by giving it this dimension, that is, after the irrevocable decision. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Because Mr. Theodorikos is not a legal person and because he has read a note sent to him, you should ask, Mr. Theodorikos, that the legal eminents of your resignation and your Government inform you that when it comes to regulation, which really relates to this article of the Constitution, which is subject to the deprivation of electoral rights by subsequent sentences, then on the basis of a special provision in electoral law, may also apply retroactively. So it is not the legal opinion that you made before, Mr Theodorikos, and that is not yours, because you are not a legal person. The only one is the one I have read to you a moment ago, because I too am not a legal person, and on the basis of which the Scientific Committee for the preparation of the new Criminal Code has reached the decision we have said from the outset. So the question remains: Do you want yes or not with any version - majority vote you are - today the Greek Parliament send another strong signal against this new fascist form that was condemned yesterday or do you want to stay behind legalism and trade union arguments to say no? You'll be judged and judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u73	To put an end to it, but not now. I'm sorry, Mr. Paphie, don't be afraid. It was given comfort and continues to be given at ease of time. You have the floor, Mr. Paphie. Mr. Synthrakis had spoken for the first time. You have the floor, and then Mr. Kamines will speak. Then from what I see the Deputy Minister, Mr Lebanon, wants to speak, and we will close this debate to get into the bill, which has already been considerably delayed. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u74	In total, Manolis Synchotis was placed. I didn't hear him because I was on my way. I want to make two remarks. Firstly, because we meet in the Chamber, you know who started the war and called a criminal organization, a fascist Golden Dawn, and the President-in-Office then, because I happened to be the one on behalf of the JRC, brought me back to order not to use such expressions as fascist, nazi, criminalism. Like many others, almost all of the other parties, not everyone else, for a long time considered it a common political phenomenon and had to be addressed, as the political phenomena that appear, etc. So because we know each other, let us stop trying to seize a hard struggle that it gave and the labour movement outside the House and outside the courts and political forces that stood in the front line. Let everyone stop this today as a laundry for their responsibilities. And the responsibilities are enormous and there are also documentaries for both the media and for political officials how they have been placed by many parties, almost all of them. I'm almost saying, 'cause I'm not sure. All documentaries exist, what everyone had said when the Golden Dawn appeared, what political hugs and others were, what explanations they gave, what they wanted the Golden Dawn with a tie. Today some people are cut off, then they were told by specific channels that we want a Golden Dawn more daily and calm. Well, let's stop all this hypocrisy. Golden Dawn and fascism are genuine and not an illegitimate child of capitalism, the system that all serves and this cannot be omitted, it has been historically proven. That is why we say that if the causes are not removed - and the causes are exploitation, impoverishment, poverty - which brings a whole system when it cannot do otherwise, it also applies to these forms of capital power. As far as the second point is concerned, do not stop the ping pong a little. What is happening now is not only happening today, it has been happening for too many years. You abolished it. You didn't bring it back. Why, since it was so awesome, weren't you going to change the Criminal Code? To play this game, played all the time. Well, get out and take the blame and say: "Yes, we did badly do the ones that have abolished it and we would not have brought it back." It's very simple and logical toward the world. We believe that the possibility of depriving civil rights should be restored in any legal way that is more direct. Why all this talk all these hours? So it's hard to say we were wrong, and we didn't bring it back? How difficult it is to play a ping pong here in the Chamber. That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u75	Mr Kamines has the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Here you go, Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I think SYRIZA burdens his position. Instead of willingly admiting the mistake he made, the frustration of so many years, the fact that he ignored science, but eventually the minister responsible was discovered, and the alarming minister, who actually came to us today, and calls us to make a commitment to legislating on a constitutional territory particularly precarious. It's the Constitution that we have to respect. And if there is any way out of electoral law, we should think that we might limit the participation in the electoral process of parties that will accept in them at least the directors. I say this without reservation, because we are talking about a matter that needs thorough consideration. I conclude by saying, Mr President, that the Golden Dawn has become a man in Athens. He was masculinated in Athens for many reasons, but the main reason was that I believe the migration we had left it in his luck. Today we are called upon to discuss and vote on the Legislation on citizenship, a bill which unfortunately continues on the issue of naturalisation the same absurd practice of the Greek state over all these years. Thirty thousand people are waiting and we're actually going to keep them in line. If we really want to honour the court's decision, this great station decision, we must see it as a win-win battle in a lasting war. And one of the most serious fronts of this war is immigration. We should start looking very seriously at the issue of the social integration of these people. And this first of all can be done through a generous citizenship policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u77	We're gonna close this conversation to get into the bill. I believe that you have all seen that the Bureau has given everyone time, without any restriction. I stress this and you need to recognise it. I'll give the floor to the Deputy Minister, Mr. Livano, and then we'll enter the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I would like some things to be clear. In voting for the previous Criminal Code, any penalty for depriving civil rights was automatically entered on the electoral lists and therefore the convicted person had no right to register. What did the previous government do? He took it as a penalty, and at the moment we were in a grey zone where electoral law, article 5 of the a.d.2612, must be changed and all sentences deprived of civil rights should be recorded exhaustively. If it is possible in five hours or three hours, because it was published and an ultimatum, they will, let them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u79	That's another answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u80	It's exactly the same. Exactly the same. So what we are saying is that this unacceptable abolition of the penalty for depriving civil rights has been done, criminal law is clearer about the more favourable treatment, cannot retroactively be punished. Even now we've changed the Criminal Code, the court's decision can't take effect. We have said that we will consider making a record of the deprivation of civil rights. The Constitution is clear and speaks of an irrevocable criminal conviction, the Minister said so and explained it in detail and there is no room for this to escape. Election law also speaks of an irrevocable criminal conviction. So what we will see, when the time comes - do not rush, there are no elections soon, do not rush to Easter - is that change and those condemned to establish an irreversible criminal organisation, as the Constitution says, will not be able to deprive them of civil rights. This is a completely different matter and requires due seriousness, because it relates to constitutional rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Ragossi. No more. I've already announced it. Every conversation brings next.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u84	I call on the rapporteur of the New Democracy in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I shall speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u86	You will have the floor as a parliamentary representative, not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u87	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u88	One minute brings one more. Mrs Agerinopoulou, the rapporteur on the New Democracy side, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u89	Mr President, on personal grounds I want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Ragossi, there is no staff. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u91	I will explain, Mr President, the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u92	Good, explain it to me. I'm sorry, Mrs. Agerinopoulou, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u93	I said that we oppose all of the insulting designations used, unfortunately not only by the government, but also by others who should be much more succumbing and much more careful of their words. But after the State Secretary's position, one cannot continue to tolerate this situation. What did the government actually say with its newer position? That we are absolutely right and that it can be done in electoral law and that it simply wants - it says the government - a long time to list all offences. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Start today and send a healthy message to the Greek society with the first to establish and address a criminal organisation and keep the right after an extensive processing to add the other offences. But you can't be insulted, you can't insult, and then you and others fully adopt what we have said from the outset. Mr Theodorikos, today you represent the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. You are in front of a very specific personal responsibility now. There is no doubt that what we have proposed to you today can be done. The Communist Party of Greece if I understood correctly is prepared to vote in favour of such an amendment. The Undersecretary told you that she can come and vote. If it does not come and is not voted on, it will be your political decision and this will not in return to the trade union you have made, but as a finding that a golden opportunity will be lost today, to be side by side with this popular feeling. Don't stay behind the trade unions and television arguments of everyday life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u94	Mr Ragossi, I did not see any personal matter. Minister, answer me, so we can get in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u95	Mr. SYRIZA's spokesman, it is obvious that the party of Officerial Opposition is unable to change. You were born in the roots of an artificial division that you created in difficult times for the country with your irresponsibility and demagogue. You can't stand for one minute that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has demonstrated by actions that they can unite the Greeks to ensure that the institutions are self-sufficient. What you did not do four and a half years in which you ruled the country was done at this time by the Government of New Democracy. And now there is the decision of Greek justice, which sends the fascists, the Nazis, the criminals to prison. You can't take that. And you come the day after the celebration of democracy, the celebration of popular unity, the day when the Greeks, happy to hear the decision of justice to find a way to divide. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That's who you are, gentlemen. You are the ones who divide the country, you divide the people, and you are looking to find the way at all times. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And it escapes you that you've gone and walked the Aegean islands with these fascists sometimes. The images are here and there are. You were hanging out and yelling at the top and bottom square together to lead the country to the deadlocks. These gentlemen are not forgotten by the Greeks. Keep it up. You're on your way. You will continue to serve the task of counterpopulation. I don't know if it'll only be for the officer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u96	After an hour and a half, we are entering the agenda. The list already opens up and you can sign up to the end of the second rapporteur, that is, the rapporteur for SYRIZA. I call on the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Dionysia - Theodora Agerinopoulou, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured to present to plenary today a bill, which is of particular importance, as it affects the lives of every Greek citizen, who is entitled to a better public administration, but also to the future of our fellow citizens, who, based on Greek ideals, Greek values and lifestyles, want to gain the status of Greek citizen, a property that is of particular importance, as it is not only accompanied by the status of the citizen of the European Union, but above all create links with one of the most historic and important, culturally important states worldwide, Greece. This is why, at times, important personalities of international archipelagos want Greeks to be naturalized. An even more touching act, which facilitates this bill, is the act of recognition of Greek citizenship to our fellow citizens. The arrangements introduced by this bill fall within the following five themes: First, an amendment to the Code of Hellenic citizenship. Secondly, a new framework for the selection of administrations in the public sector. Third, regulation of organisational issues of the General Secretariat of Citizenship and the General Secretariat of Human Resources Public Sector of the Ministry of Interior. Fourthly, arrangements for the development prospects and the proper functioning of local government bodies. And fifthly, other provisions. In the first chapter, articles on the regulation of citizenship are inserted. The bill changes the process of naturalization. With the system currently in force, applicants who go through an interview may be at a maximum of four thousand per year, while applications amount to tens of thousands. As a result, there is a long delay in the naturalisation process which may last for up to six years. Also, with the only interview as part of the examination process, as currently foreseen, there is a deficit in their preparation and they are sometimes brought to a failure by losing money and valuable time. The General Secretariat of Citizenship rightly considered that the system should be reformed and given characteristics of more transparency, objectivity, equivalence and speed. Article 3 lays down the essential conditions for naturalisation as follows: The foreigner who wishes to become a Greek citizen with naturalization must: He must be sufficiently familiar with the Greek language, be well aware of the Greek history and geography, the Greek culture and the habits of the Greek people, as well as the way in which the institutions of the country's culture operate; he must have the ability to participate actively and effectively in the political life of the country, respecting the principles that govern it; he must have been properly integrated into the economic and social life of the country by making it the consistent centre of his life, that is, the essential link between the candidate for naturalization and the country. Article 5 sets out the supporting documents required for naturalisation, namely: Passport or residence permit, title of legal residence, certificate of adequacy of knowledge for naturalisation, birth certificate, clearing note and AMKA. There is also a need for a harmonious value of EUR 550 unless it is an application made by relatives or citizens of the European Union or political refugees or stateless persons, so the paradox is only 100 euros. In this draft law, the entire examination procedure of the applicant is remodeled in its position as one and all of the interview material, with the difficulties it has had, by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will now be carried out by a pan-Hellenic typeexamination. These examinations, which are horizontal, objective and consistent with international good practice, are open to all interested parties without waiting lists. The procedure is thus substantially accelerated. It will take place twice a year in order to obtain a new certificate, the Civilizations Certificate. This certificate shall be obtained after the successful examinations have been carried out by the applicant before the application for naturalisation is submitted. In other words, it is a prerequisite for the application to be informed in time whether its knowledge is sufficient to submit the application. Note that the required level of knowledge of the Greek language is defined in the commonly accepted level B1 of the Common European Reference Framework for Foreign Languages. An issue bank is also formed which will be accessible through the Ministry of the Interior website without costs to all interested parties. Revenue from the exams shall be allocated to cover the costs of the services of the General Secretariat of citizenship in order not to bear the State budget from carrying out the examinations. The decision of the Secretary-General of citizenship provides for the setting-up of an organisational committee and the setting-up of a scientific committee to assist the examinations. In fact, in the course of the interactive procedure followed in the drafting of the bill in the relevant committee of Parliament, the question was that the exam should be reduced so that all interested parties could submit the application without disproportionate financial burden, which was immediately accepted by the Ministry. And thank you very much for that. Similarly, in the same positive direction, the legislative improvement of Article 7 of paragraph 2, which was presented today by the Minister of the Interior, on the crisis of the applicant for naturalisation, is moving in the same direction. It proves once again the social person of the Greek state. Furthermore, there is a particular provision for special population groups such as those with dyslexia, disabled persons, those with a third age to be examined orally. Examinations are excluded for those who have already studied in greek or greek as their level of knowledge is self-proof. They are excluded from the process and the expatriates, as recognition of their nationality is a right which they are automatically entitled to because our relatives are an integral part of the Greek nation and cannot be subject to other procedures than to a probative process of origin. It is also foreseen that the child of the foreigner who is naturalized by Greek self-righteously takes the Greek nationality if three conditions exist, i.e. if she is underage, single and resides in Greece permanently. Retrospective recognition of nationality is also provided for in Greek children whose nationality has been recognised since birth. In addition, new administrative procedures such as the possibility of requesting the resolution of citizenship which is submitted to the Director-General of Citizenship should the assistance of its conditions be called into question. It states that if one of the legitimate conditions for citizenship is clearly not met, this is not a case of questioning it, but one must withdraw the decision to acquire it. The bill further provides for the establishment of a Directorate-General at the Ministry of Interior's General Secretariat of Citizenship. The Directorate-General for Citizenship is established by the Central Directorate of Citizenship and the Regional Administrations of citizenship and has a strategic objective to further design the organisational structure of the service units and to provide guidance to them. Two new citizenship addresses are being established in Attica and Macedonia, which will examine applications for naturalization for which no examinations are required and which concern children born in Greece by foreign parents and who studied in Greek education or those who came to the country and graduated from Greek school or university. The focus of the responsibilities of the two new directorates alone in these categories of cases makes their operation more effective and the adoption of decisions more rapid and dismantles the other existing addresses. In order to speed up the process forty-two new organic positions are recommended to support the new structures by effectively addressing the problem of subsistence of services and by achieving a speeding up of the process of examining requests for Greek citizenship. The problem not only of subscribing but also of good, good staffing comes to solve the second chapter of the bill. The second chapter complements the Government's Legislative Initiative for the Final State aimed at a worthwhile process of selecting the administrations of legal persons governed by public and private law. The development of the procedure for selecting administration in the public sector has been based on the successful selection procedure of the secretaries of the Ministries under the provisions of Law 4622/2019. Refers to the conditions of recruitment of administrations in the public sector, in particular to the selection of Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Governors, Deputy Governors, Vice-Presidents, Vice-Presidents, directors, or appointed advisers. Applicants must have at least the qualifications of appointment and must not be subject to the improper appointment of civil servants. The minimum qualifications required are still defined, such as a degree in IEI and a very good knowledge of the European Union's language and at least five years of work experience. Special provisions may add additional qualifications according to the needs of each position. The law defines the selection process and the molecules of candidates. Two stages are foreseen, pre-selection and final selection following the drafting of a list of more predominant candidates. The pre-selection shall be by a five-member committee with the participation of, among other things, representatives of the AACC and the heads of other public bodies. The three groups of criteria, i.e. formal qualifications, pre-service and experience and structured interview, are equal. The term of office shall be three plus three years at most. The third chapter deals with issues of the General Secretariat of Human Resources in relation to the possibility of concluding a contract by the end of the development programmes, precisely for staff carrying out these programmes. The staff of municipal water and sewerage undertakings shall be offered the possibility of either mutually transferring or posting for health or co-service purposes with a spouse or a civil servant. Provision is made for the recruitment of temporary staff of local government bodies for machinery operators for four months which may apply to both the first and the second grades of local government. The aim is to interoperability of the information system in the Ministry of the Interior by the name of the Register of Human Resources of the Greek State which can operate with the information system ‘ERGAN’ of the Ministry of Labour for data reception, for the employment of extortionees, in particular with regard to the hours of employment of workers who do not have full hours. The importance of this regulation lies in the fact that the interconnection of the two information systems and the updating of the register's data quantitatively and qualitatively ensures that the development of employment in the public sector is monitored without increasing the administrative burden of services. In the fourth chapter, an amendment is introduced to the provisions of the Code of Civilian Administrative Officers and Legal Officers of Public Law. Provision is made for a change in the establishment of the Hospital’s Selection Boards, the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, where the participation of the relevant Selection Councils and the Head of Directorate-General of other Ministries is not sufficient. The fifth chapter ensures, by extension of workers' contracts, the continuation of the ‘House Help’ programme until final results are achieved, as the competitive process for the implementation of the programme with permanent staff is under way. This provision shall apply retroactively from 1 October. This ensures not only the uninterrupted work of workers but also the possibility of continuing social services in vulnerable population groups. The sixth chapter provides for arrangements for the development prospects and the proper functioning of local government bodies. For the first time in recent years, flexibility has been given to achieve the maximum possible absorption of European funds. With additional flexibility and unbundling the forces of their human resources, local government agencies will be able to prepare appropriately, with a view to making available in the next few years a series of European and national funds, for which they will have to develop technical capacity in terms of absorption and become real development levers for local communities. For example, special advisers and scientific associates of mayors are given the opportunity to draw up without additional remuneration studies and competitions for municipal works and services. This regulation is necessary to help the technical services of the municipalities with a subsistence problem and those of us who come from small municipalities know how important this provision is. For reasons of legal and efficiency, Articles 72 and 17 of Law No.3852 of 2010 on the powers of the Economic Commission for Municipalities and Regions for reasons of legal certainty and order. Project issues are regulated to successfully accelerate the absorption of resources by the Local Government I and II grades. Further, the technical staff employed, with project rental contracts, with the development agencies and the Hellenic Society for Local Development and Administration, can draw up project and service studies, as well as public tender issues. The functioning of the developmental legal persons of local government is institutionally shielded. Any work or action which is part of the UN's sustainable development objectives shall be added to the objectives which may pursue. A number of other provisions still refer to the bill, but, because of time, I will be allowed to refer to my denunciation. The most important thing is that these provisions can solve problems of the daily life of the Greek citizen and release public administration forces. They are making our state more operational and more effective. They are a clear expression of the principle of good governance. This is therefore a bill that we are voting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too, for the time economy. The rapporteur for SYRIZA Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I will ask today for the tolerance of this House and yours and our listeners. There is a possibility that I will not go beyond time to blame the bill that we have discussed in the committees and we are discussing today in plenary, which, yes, we have had the opportunity to develop on a number of issues, but I do not want to blame it because I want to refer to specific things that have happened yesterday, and I think it is a duty and a duty to deal with them from the Stephen of this House. If I can't make it up to time, I'll fill it with my denture, but I'd beg for a tolerance in advance. Last night, when I got home, I opened up - in a way that I will describe later - a number of websites to read articles, particularly on yesterday's big day of the outcome of the Golden Dawn trial decision. Amongst many other articles I read a loved one to me, although I do not know him personally, sports journalist, Nikos Papadogiannis, whom I have been attending for many years, from a young age and I very often appreciate his political sensory and political viewpoint. He said, therefore, that in his view - celebrating, of course, yesterday's day - 7 October 2020 should be considered as a national holiday and a formal holiday. It's a very long day. He of course wrote it with the press release, but he wrote it in order to stress that history is forbidden to become silent. He even said that yesterday's popular mobilisation, the huge popular mobilisation, was a pleasant surprise for him and that if we want to change things, we have to put proshes on the sofas. If we don't mobilize ourselves, we can't change things. Of course, continuing - and I quote his own text - he wrote 'the fascism - and I fully agree with him about it and the Step forward of the House - is the hatred of the different and the violence that stems from it'. And yes, fascism - not to forget - is the silent complicity of 'oh, brother' which is heard by too many people, unfortunately, and has been heard all these years. I am very happy to be there yesterday, on the day that the Greek society and the temperament - and lately, but if I have been allowed to do so in recent years - Greek justice, for other reasons, has, of course, been at the same time. He saved our dignity as a political system. I am very proud of the fact that I was there with friends, with my family and especially with a lot of people, who, together with social and political actors, were clearly found spontaneously there because he just wanted to stand next to all the victims of this Nazi criminal organization. Of course we all knew they were guilty. We did not know now, over the last seven years which, unfortunately, the time had brought this form to exist as a parliamentary party, to express itself through these benches of democracy. We knew it a long time ago. Some of them were showing up as a rock star, don't forget that. We knew it a long time ago. I personally, because I have been born and grown up in the Paintings, we have had ensembles in there, unfortunately, since I remember myself a young child, since the Golden Dawn had 0.3% in the elections. We always knew, we always feared them, and we always knew that these people were criminals. We remember that with all these attacks said before by the former President of Parliament, comrade Nikos Voutsis. We remember it in the attack of Dimitris Kosouris outside the courts, which had then shocked us as students. I was working in the courts. I was there every day. I was an eyewitness. I was shocked by that fact. If the man doesn't see it in front of him, he can't understand what an assault order attack is, murder attack. Along with all those who were there to bronze "not fascism", I, although I was with many colleagues and many parties and institutions, not only by SYRIZA and many friends, chose to be and stand with my family and friends outside of the organised blocks. Unfortunately within them was my father. My father, in less than six months, closes eighty. You know him, Mr. President. You know my father. You can understand, therefore, what a climate we have been.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u100	Let's explain how I know him. From the time he was once a prefect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u101	Of course, of course. I mean, you know him personally and you have an opinion of what he's like and how we could have been in all this crowd. Sadly, therefore, this great day, the huge day for the democracy of Greece, has been annulled by an inappropriate attack, which has taken place and suffered myself personally. Evidently, I was not the target personally, but it happened and was personally experienced by a platoon of MATs. I do not understand what orders, which headline concepts at the time, sent a platoon of MATs into people who were there peacefully and, in fact, two minutes after the announcement of the decision and the spontaneous celebrations that followed. We were my father, my brother, my cousin, my girlfriend, and three friends and another world there. There was a platoon of MATs, which I do not know what 'in the tracks' was doing there, and it decided less than five meters to launch, to fly us, without any provocation from anyone apparently - I don't think there is anyone here in the fourteen months that you all know me that I could either believe that I or someone from my family would cause some contrary instinct to a police officer - a bomb of tear gas, which, because I tried to avoid it, fell on my girlfriend, fell down and on her explosion came to my face. All of it! When I say it all, I mean it all. You understand what can be followed by such an attack. I couldn't see for the next twenty minutes. I was just listening. I couldn't even open my eyes. All the material of this thing was in my clothes, my shoes, my purse and, unfortunately, in my eyes, in which I made the mistake of trying to remove it before digging, because it was my whole environment there. Fortunately, my father was gone ten minutes earlier. I don't know which spirit protected him, I don't know exactly what this man thought and ten minutes before he left. Because I don't know what the situation would be for a man of eighty years old who, like so many thousands of people, decided that he should stand next to Magda Bryssa when he was coming out of this room. To the mother of all of us. We've all been creeped out. I saw her tonight, because I couldn't because of what happened to seeing her at the time. And I do not think there will be a Greek, a serious citizen, other than the fascists, who did not overthrow the image of the mother of all of us, the mother of Greece - especially for yesterday's day - to raise hands and find atonement. That's where all these people wanted to be. There are clearly political responsibilities. There are political responsibilities. I don't understand why two minutes after the decision. Two minutes, they're timed. I've got them on videos because I couldn't imagine that's gonna happen. I have a video when they celebrate, my comrades took it, and while I'm under attack. In fact, there is no more than two minutes of time. Don't hide now because it's been so many years, six years since the murder of the Paul Bridge and we're all trying to have communication and political benefits. If Paul Physsus had not spilled his blood that day, not this decision would have existed, there would have been no criminal persecution and, unfortunately, we would still see them in these benches. If Paul Physus had not endured his courage and lameness. It was too heavy for the government to raise it. However, this does not mean that we will forget that the Secretary-General of the then government, Mr Baltakos, resigned April 2, 2014-2014! - for revealing he was talking underground with these gentlemen. Because I see too many articles now and efforts to "wash" the government at the time, that there was a criminal prosecution at that time. Obviously! It was so heavy that the blood of Paul Bryssa, which was not even that government, which secretly talked about itself or its members, the Secretary-General of the Government, I insist, was then Mr Takis Baltakos, who secretly spoke to them. Obviously, this reproach does not concern any of the Members, at least those present. Minister, I did not have it in the speech I wanted for my personal experience yesterday, the unpleasant, very unpleasant, because it was a good thing that it did not leave me with a permanent problem. In the ophthalmologist than they told me, I have a small burn on my right eye. I've been treated. I believe that by tomorrow there will be no more serious problem. And I hope so, obviously. But this could happen to anyone. It happened and happened to me, that I have a Step here today, to put it. And the reason I put it isn't because I'm in a mood to go after someone, I don't want to go to court. I believe, however, that I have a duty to all these people who have been victims of police violence or who will be found in the future. And we all have a duty, unfortunately, to do all of this in the Security Councils - it is not majority, but there are - and to drive them out of there and resist all forms of unprovoked police violence. I think it's my personal duty. I always thought so, not now that I have this Step. I thought it was a lawyer, too. Of the most honorable moments of my little career as a lawyer in the criminal courts, it was every time I saw a kid in building 16, for anyone who knows Puppies, a little girl - usually happened and there were girls who stayed behind, arrested and always troubled most of the time, and they were like scared puppies, who didn't know why they had been there - to defend it. And I had the honour several times to defend such children. Obviously, it was not from the riots, and, apparently, they went through all this suffering, which no man can understand, to be acquitted. Because they had nothing to do with it, of course. We all have a duty - I have said this from this step - to eliminate these police violence actions. Mr Minister, just one comment on what you said, because I do not want to expand, because our parliamentary representative has said so. What exactly did Mr Mitsotakis' government do - to understand - about the Golden Dawn decision? Because you said so again. What exactly did you do? That you had space available to Greek justice, to the courts? But who are you talking to? We don't know how things are going on? We have not said that we have brought or can invoke a government. Obviously, the political system had to and should have let justice do its job. And to its credit justice saved, as I said, all of us! - the dignity. Because you told us twice, what exactly did the Mitsotakis Government do? You can tell us a little lynas, so we don't understand it. We have a duty to defend those who bring us here. We must not allow fascism ensembles. As the Wizard Bridge quite rightly said, it was a very small victory. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative also said so in his honour. Obviously, Mr. Kamines said so. All the attendants have said so. The fight for fascism is lasting. Fascism is not just the subjects of the Golden Dawn, the convicted ones today. Fascism also exists in other aspects, and we, as democratic citizens, must protect our society against any kind of racism, fascism and any form of intolerance. I'll try to make a first move for the bill in three minutes, because it's really unfair in such a serious bill, just come to me, and I'm a rapporteur. Obviously, Minister, and Minister, you had to make this amendment today, because, in my personal assessment, the main foul of the Code of Nationality, which you said was related to the income criterion. The main reason for exclusion was that you do well to change it and bring it differently. Nevertheless, it remains a Code of Citizenship which cannot respond in any way to the fact that, in my opinion, it is right to agree with Mr Kamine before, the best response to fascism will be to see the integration of refugees and migrants in Greek society very seriously. It does not help, as you bring the Code of Citizenship with the corrections - which are all welcome and which are in a positive direction, to be absolutely fair - to this end that we must all have. On the question of the choice of the presidents and the administrative boards of legal persons, we have told them in committee too. You haven't changed anything, anyway. We consider it hypocritical at least, while you have appointed all the blue and large children throughout the public, now to bring us supposedly objective terms with committees which are obviously controlled by the government, so you are completely in control of them. There is no place to be taken over for the next three years and four years. They are full-time all those who have already appointed with this bill. For 'Help at home' we have said it and accepted it, although we are again talking about the delay you have acted with. A word about local self-government. It is clear that it is your political decision to completely misuse municipal councils and regional councils. You don't like mayors, we understand that. Obviously, a mayor - I have made a mayor and I know - wants him to have absolute control of things, not to account to the municipal council, and obviously not to have these conflicts within municipal councils. It is unconstitutional and illegal, and we have told you this before, against the European Charter of Local Autocracy. All these decisions you have on the full transfer of responsibilities to the Economic Commission will fall in the courts. If they do not fall into the Council of State, it is certain that the European Court of Justice, in its case-law, will condemn our country. Why can the elected representatives of the people no longer, the municipal councils, the supreme body of the municipalities, according to all the codes and laws of local government, remain without competence and everything is done by the executive authority and by the executive bodies of the municipality, by the mayor and economic committees and quality of life committees. As far as development agencies are concerned, we have our objections. We believe that a transfer of powers is taking place and that it is dangerous and not legitimate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u102	Please complete, in a minute, in summary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President. The last thing I'm going to close is that you made a detailed reference to the committee, Mr Minister, is to the 'ITIS ANTI-DUMP' programme. In committee, I made a little mistake. Because I thought so, though. I didn't do it intentionally. I thought after a year and a half you understood the mechanism of "Philodime", which was the most important development tool of local government by "THESH" and then the only one that brought a multibillion program to the municipalities, especially within periods of memoranda and crisis. I thought you understood it and you just copyed - with a few additions positive, to be perfectly fair - the whole system and you just renamed it. Now, I doubt you're aware of it and if you're trying to work it right. I have not even understood why you told us that you have signed the European Investment Bank, if you have indeed signed and accepted the European Investment Bank's programme 'As soon as possible'. In order to solve my question, and I imagine many people, including local government, but also within Parliament, will also be able to present us with the contract you have signed with the European Investment Bank, so that we do not have the stress and all the mayors, if the projects that will be carried out - we hope - with the programmes you have announced, with the 'ITIS ANTIME', or if they are in the air. Obviously the money also exists in the Deposit and Loan Fund, that is clear. However, at least because there is a problem with the repayment of loans - because the Deposits and Loans - if you do not understand the mechanism and you cannot commit the Public Investment Programme, as Philosophy has done very well, there will be a very serious problem in the next few years in the municipalities. Please do so very much, because although you are trying to copy "Philodimo" as a system, at least copy it correctly because it will be for the benefit of all the municipalities and obviously also of the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u104	I'd like to call at the Step the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Larisa, Evangelia Likalis. for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, justice has worked and democracy celebrates. This is the conclusion of today, after the results of yesterday's decision. Every democrat and every democrat today can speak of a very great historic victory for democracy. The decision to condemn the fascist form and its criminal activity in the country justified all the progressive people and the memory of Paul Physsa, this wronged young man, who was the legend to wake up the political system to take initiatives to stop an action that was dressed in the cloak of a political party. We stay active, we stay alert and always vigilant, because we only end with the neonazis together. No one alone, then! And while our joys were great, and while we celebrated democracy, you didn't endure Officer Opposition, you came back to ruin it! You couldn't. You tried to ride the wave once more, to come and cover your mistakes. And, of course, Mr President, Mr Ministers, both your Government and the political parties, a major political and moral issue today. It has nothing to do with the decision alone, but it has to do with the statements made by the former Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, who resigned from the Central Committee of SYRIZA, saying that "the SYRIZA no longer meets the needs of society" and denounces phrases. It's your internal affairs, you've got a new disciplinary now, you'll find it between you two. Well, well, well, well, well, But he also denounces at the same time the Criminal Code, that he had warned. "I had in mind the trial of the Golden Dawn," says Mr. Kontonis. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you did not have the Lebanese and the courage to come to Parliament today and say 'we have made a mistake', to assume the political responsibility that the SYRIZA has abolished the deprivation of civil rights by the Criminal Code. That is why you are coming today and you are underestimating Parliament's intelligence. Shame on you! Oh, no, no, no, You think that Parliament and the Step that and that are theatrical scene and you go up and play your roll. Directoring, production. Who do you think you are addressing the truth? Who are you complaining about? Do you have yourself? Where are you guys, ladies and gentlemen? On your beard? And, of course, at last, do you think that the Greek people have so little memory, do you think they don't see, do not read, do they? Do not be fooled by the circumstances, the fears and the uncertainties of a great economic crisis in the country, which led the Greek people to believe in the hope that you have sold him and the duvets that have never been beaten, and the stricken ones you were supposed to bring. It never forgets either your political tombs or the politicians who are swinging the finger in Parliament today as if they had no personal routes and stories, nor the fake tombs and the fake tombs! Well, you're older than the old one. And let's decide now to get this over with. You're absolutely right, we have to get this over with. The history of the decision and the outcome of the trial of the Golden Dawn do not let you today be robbed or ruined. We do not allow Mr Ragosi, your Parliamentary representative, on this personal path, on this political path, with all that he is described in his political term, to have this place in Parliament as a theatrical producer. It is at least disgraceful about democracy and offend our institutional and worthy system. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill, which is now coming to our Parliament, is very serious. It is a bill in fact, which is about a top issue, such as the performance of citizenship, for which, of course, your Government should respect and bring this bill alone, self-evident and with a serious consultation. Unfortunately you gave the consultation ten days and 'birth' sixteen articles again. From forty-two you made it fifty-eight. And, of course, they are not random articles. They are articles of what you wanted to hide, not to become a lot of shower and a lot of noise, such as the benches of the cemetery temples. In the mosquito, in the low ball. But in democracies, consultation has a very specific meaning, Minister, and is governed by fundamental seriousness, but also by a relationship of trust with the citizens. I'll see you, see you, yell them, diaphragm them, but, unfortunately, they're in vain. You cannot understand us, you cannot understand what we are saying. We feel that we are two different worlds, we have another sun, another moon, another political oxygen. Obviously this is happening between us. At the level of settings, your bill is a summation of modifications to cubes and cubes. You have, indeed, overcome every precedent. You've come to correct yourself six times. Run on your own in the track cooker and you can't finish. You put tripods on yourself. And while you're showing that you're trying to put an alleged order on the little ones, on the simples, on the day-to-day, but it's important - that if you know where to go, and if you know where to go, you're really easy to go - and that's where you're getting confused and behave like the compass that the index broke down and goes around herself crazy. Really, did you wonder if your compass turns madly when you amend laws of your own government and, indeed, laws of 2020? Laws 4662/20, 4674, 4683, 4700, 4722 are changed. Some, in fact, have very extensive amendments. We counted fifteen different amendments for Law 4674/2020. I'm bringing you one example. I mean, you're modifying yourself. Legislative, you don't like, you fail, you realize that you have failed and you're coming again to amend it. Are you going to tell me, is that bad? So if we see that something isn't right and it doesn't work, don't we have to amend it? I'll tell you why it's politically tragic. Politically tragic is why you are a year government, from August 2019 to today you are legislating on the same issues and you cannot solve them - this means, of course, a problem - and, of course, you do not have things on your political agenda. The second and most important thing is that you have moved us in this Chamber many times the finger for the government of excellence. And, of course, with such legislation you cannot get perfect. Of course, you have invested, you have promoted the excellent system and so on. - so you say, not us - you insisted on giving us lessons and saying, "Look carefully to see how we manage". And, finally, as if not all of this were enough, you brought a series of legislation, which is not excellent, but shows that bad legalization and genomes are, unfortunately, your ongoing tactics. Now, for this bill, Minister, what can I tell you? Can I confide you from the Stepping of the House that even the scientists, the House, with many years of experience, have thrown the pennies high on a demonstration of protest, that you have come to bring amendments at dawn and something without any chance of reading them? And the third package of amendments is not yet in our hands! But are these serious things? Who do you think you're addressing? In Parliament, in its highest legislative status, presence and function at the same time? What can I say? The political conclusion, however, is one and it is serious. It is that the institutional substance of the matter means that we have a remarkable attack on the legislative body and a deterioration in the parliamentary work. Now, as far as the way you bring citizenship is concerned, I would like to say this: Minister, there is from the outset a terrible blackout. And, unfortunately, the issues you have with your bill create very big problems and will create even greater in the coming months. Unfortunately, you did not give information to Parliament, which we asked you to do, even within the committees. We requested statistics and you did not give them. We have asked for the report by the Transparency Authority, which you have repeatedly invoked. Again and again you were telling us what this report says. And here I will not say about the little fraud - because there is even greater - that you have done, saying that you posted it on your website, while you posted it just after my speech on 2 October. However, let's go further on this infamous report you're telling us, 'let's say that's what this report says to us. There is not even a statistical element, there is absolutely nothing about the provisions that you have adopted. Unfortunately, at the moment, what you are bringing about citizenship is a mixed system, which includes the previous oral examinations - the interview in essence - and you put on the pan-Hellenics as well. You are also calling on the examples of France and Germany, and you say, 'Look at us, these European countries have adopted this system'. But come to tell us half the truth and hide the other half, which is the most important thing: Who are you hiding? You hide the truth, Minister, that there they have an educational system that only from 2015 to 2019 in Germany spent a million people trained with six hundred-hour courses who are given them free and free. Have you arranged for these kinds of courses in Greece in order to enter a pan-Hellenic exam? Have you organized something in the immediate future? We asked you in the committees, but we did not get an answer. The biggest thing, however, which is happening, is, unfortunately, that we have thirty thousand prisoners, hostages with a request for citizenship in the register. They went through the state machine counter, paid the 700, and now what are you telling them? We zero the shorter, go back to the beginning, pay off paradox, re-pay oral and pan-Hellenic tests, I don't give you lessons, everything you learn - learn, everything you learn, you learn, you also create a paradox next to education in reality, because no one can go alone to give pan-Hellenic tests. And what are you actually doing? In fact, Minister, you remove from these people the possibility of returning after seven and eight years waiting in their turn, as democratic and law would really be. Today, unfortunately, you must admit that the system cannot lift this process. What are you telling us? You told us that there is currently the provision of early April 2021 that both the old and the new should join and serve the system. And somewhere in this notorious report we are told that this system will be able to do so, because we are recommending services which each committee will have three people, etc. What committee, Minister, and what three people, when most addresses have two? In fact, he laughs at the universe when we say these things. We are talking about subsistence of services when you see it every day and has thousands of people gathered to wait for self-evident? A huge moral and legal issue about how these thirty thousand people will be settled. There are no transitional provisions. You should take care of that, we called it, we asked for it. You have brought a lot of legislative improvements and amendments and, unfortunately, you do not accept that. But do you know what you're actually doing? In fact, Minister, what you're doing is interrupting in the middle of a football game and saying that the second half we're gonna play it now on basketball terms and not football. In fact, you have them again competing on something they don't know. It's unfair. You put them on your own terms and you never asked. Of course you also put on incomes. You came today and you partially corrected it, saying it would be the income of the unskilled worker. But that's not good enough. Because in the time of COVID and unemployment, and when you do not have a family income - if I understood correctly - you are putting it individual, you are entering again. This shows me the big trick, that in this way you remove and remove and create a whole lot of issues, a whole lot of problems. Basically, you submit to Sisyphus' torture of thirty thousand immigrants and resubmit them to pay the paradoxes, get into the process without having absolutely any effect after a long time. And also to point out something that may not have been heard much in the committees. When will these people, Minister, take citizenship when you start in April with thirty thousand applications and all new ones and when you don't have a mechanism and administration and will break the universe and you will be here to bring us laws again so that you can deal with it? But when the interview will be given after the contest, that's a year and we'll see? In fact, what you are saying to everyone is that we will see what we are going to do. "Seeing and doing" that is the doctrine of your Government and, unfortunately, that is what you apply in this particular case. But you are also doing a great deal of wrong in the institutional system. Bad is that good political function affects people, educates people, is an educational process. You are therefore asking immigrants and refugees - who are applicants for citizenship - to respect their host country. But, Minister, when the system does not respect these same people, how will people respect it? These thoughts don't belong to me. They belong to people who have already developed their thoughts from ancient Greece even have spoken of the good state and the good legislation. Unfortunately, you are drawing up legislation as it emerges. Just as you did the CECs, so now you go to build a similar paradox, ostensibly next door - we will see how - to serve the needs. Basically close the eye with beetles to all those who already run the shampoo outside the door and wait to train immigrants to participate in the pan-Hellenic. Fair enough? Oh, no. But let your Government be openly and correctly consulted. We were talking about the organisation of these second-rate schools because they are structures in which we can be funded by the European Union from European funds. But it seems to count the trick of your own government, that you are zeroing the waiting years, you expect that of the thirty thousand who are now, the incomes will be ten thousand, then they will be desperate and five thousand left, and in the end they will be three thousand, there will be no families and there will be two. We've reached one, so we've zeroed it! Very nice, but I think that by the disappearance of the system you too will be elected. Now, as far as the OTA issue is concerned. You have brought various provisions, Minister, to which you have once created a political and institutional treachery. What is it that has caught you with the municipalities and regions to move all the responsibilities to the artificial majorities? We saw what SYRIZA did with "KLITHEN", with the supposedly simple analogue as a cloak of a system that he wanted to pass as an election system. The rulership was secondary, but that's where he was afraid of, that's why he put the anti-majorists. That's right, Mr. Lebanese. He spotted it the other day. He also had that light cheese in SYRIZA's prefecture. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you blew up the banana in the air. You're going to do rulership with the financial committees! You're not playing, according to folklore! It is not possible to constantly move responsibilities into economic committees, making municipal and regional councils as decorative organs and putting self-government on the plaster. Why do you put her in the plaster? Why are you taking breath, oxygen, consultation, discussion, rivalry through collectiveness, though. Take it, remove it. That is not right in institutional terms and, of course, it is deeply conservative. It's been turning us back decades. And you know, we can talk to you. We can do it, Minister. Because we are neither political perpetrators, the political stature we have, our positions and our opinions, and the system has served with the mistakes, the omissions and the major reforms that the party has made, when some of them left here, protested, some have voted against. So we are the ones who have been born, inspired, founded and reformed self-government. That's why we have one more reason to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u106	Complete in a thin outline.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u107	Yes, Mr. President. We want, Minister, to say that self-government is not what happens and so forth. He wants a visionary target. We must move forward with a vision and a new governance plan for local government. You did the development agencies. It seems from what you brought us today that you don't know what you want to do. And we still chew the laurel leaves to figure out where you want to take this thing. You give responsibilities, you take responsibilities, you leave approvals, you get approvals, you give ministerial decisions to the development agencies, but you change the framework it has! Tell us where you want to take this thing. As far as 'Help at home' is concerned, I will say two words, Mr President, and I will finish and stress it only to demonstrate the government's curiosity. If anything happens today - beating wood, misfortune would be - the workers and the administration are on the air. Legally you are not covered from the end of September until today when you have not passed this law. You didn't predict early. We have the experience, because we set up the program. It's the birth of PASOK's nourishment. He is personally convinced of the current Secretary of our Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement and then the State Secretary for Labour, Vassilis Kegeroglu, who supported and provided prospects for the programme, guaranteed his continuity. But above all - and I quote honour enthusiastically - he maintained, Minister, the public nature of the programme, when decisions had been taken which would have certainly led to its deterioration. Finally, I mention the amendment that you brought last night, at midnight, and something at dawn, Minister, that I do not know whether this is what honours the legislative procedure and the House together. Can we tell you we're still reading? We're reading. Can we tell you we're still writing? We're writing. Can we tell you that the third package of the legislators hasn't been delivered yet? You know that from your partners. Is this a piece of legislation, Minister, while the day is moving on, and while you are bringing such serious issues to Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u108	Shut up, Mrs. Litikoli.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u109	I'm closing up saying this. There are positive provisions that you have brought, and in some respects you have heard us. There are the amendments to the Change Movement. I am going to refer to them in my dentistry. We have submitted them and they are sensitive groups, they relate to SMEs, to pregnant women licensed, they deal with issues relating to mining holdings, but above all, what we stress in this bill, Minister, is that every bill is a political seal, especially the bills concerning top institutions, such as citizenship, such as multi-sensitive public administration, such as local government. It's a one-way now to have a new plan. A new road is needed. A new change is needed. Public administration cannot serve this system when it is a posthumous public administration. He doesn't have any vision. A new change is needed. We'll get her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u110	Mr Manolis Syntakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing a multi-legislative plan, which deals with several issues, issues of citizenship, choice of public administration, regulations concerning human resources in public administration, in the LAGs, in the 'Help at Home', regulations on the operation of local authorities and other provisions. It is clear that, although all these provisions are different and are different, they mean a common objective, and this objective is to shield the urban political system in the sense of the state of staff, the civil service, as the government says, and to strengthen the cohesiveness and adaptation of the administrative structures, as well as of public administration in the needs of capitalist development, to strengthen the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] In relation to the chapter on the processes of naturalisation of foreigners as Greeks, in our view, this is another change in the provisions of the Code of Nationality, which is made in the name of transparency and indifference of procedures, acceleration, but actually changes towards the worst, it makes it more difficult to acquire Greek citizenship. At the same time, it is provokingly increasing the already high paradoxes or introducing new paradoxes, at a time when the working class and people of our country are stricken by the burdens loaded on their backs in the name of the pandemic. The institutions, during their hearing, have, in our view, made valuable and proper comments. As is rightly stated in the civic lawyer's memorandum, once they have to pass through the committee after the examinations, Article 6(6) of Article 7, delay and subjectivity remain. Of course, we did not expect anything better than the government, which, under the same law of March, worsened the process of obtaining citizenship from the disabled children of a second generation, which flew on the road after years of residence and work to the necessary cleaners of the schools, because they did not either have citizenship or a certificate of Greek nationality, although many of them had applied for citizenship or for the certificate, but they are delayed under the responsibility of the state. The legislators that the government has brought in, in our view, want to gold out the pill, but they do not even alter the substance of the provisions and the direction of the bill. By means of the bill, the Government adds a class criterion, namely that the annual declared income may not be less than the annual total annual earnings of the unskilled worker, while the Secretary-General of citizenship will be able to determine even higher income. A classic issue is also an increase in offenses or the introduction of new offenses, such as for homosexuals who live abroad for the purpose of finding or having Greek citizenship and much more. As if the majority of the preconditioned migrants who wish to acquire Greek citizenship had that vandal, the wallet, which the big investors have, which, in order for them to be attracted by all governments, share exquisite gold visas and gold passports. As if there are not hundreds of thousands of Greeks who do not meet this economic, class criterion. In the name of alleged objectivity, the process is divided in terms of assisting the so-called "essential" conditions for the acquisition of Greek citizenship by naturalisation. In fact, however, one more cutter is introduced. Thus, on the basis of the draft law, in Articles 3, 5 and 6, the applicant must first pass written examinations of Greek language, history, culture, political institutions and others, at the level of graduate in high school, in response to 70% of the questions - the reduction from 80% to 70% - does not change anything on the substance - on issues that will come from a bank and after paying a paradox - EUR 150 to obtain the so-called 'certification of knowledge and naturalisation'. But in practice, what will happen? We will see to it that the schools are planted and translated in this area, since the Greek state has never, and with any government, arranged to organize the Greek language to the thousands of economic migrants who have been living and working in our country for decades now, paid taxes and are in line with their obligations in the insurance funds. It does the same with recognizing refugees, throwing them on the streets or stacking them in the overcrowded camps, and even in pandemic conditions. No concern about how they will live, about how these people will come to understand that the state has never taken care of them to teach them the Greek language. Only after taking this certificate, will it be possible to apply to the second stage, that is to say the interview, where it will be considered whether the other essential conditions are met, i.e. to verify the applicant's economic and social integration by paying another EUR 550, i.e. a total of EUR 700 engravings. In view of the above changes, the acquisition of Greek citizenship becomes the case for the few. It becomes even more difficult and even more expensive for people who have been fighting for years in Greece and, of course, do not deserve such a treatment from the Greek state. SYRIZA, of course, had opened the way for the introduction of the concept of examinations into the process of naturalisation and then we as a Communist Party of Greece had disagreed. Now the New Democracy is coming, and as is done in all other political cases, it takes off and reaches it until the full separation of the process. But there is another matter. After putting the tests and maintaining the interview, the invoking of the alleged objectivity of the procedure, in our view, goes for a walk. Our criticism is therefore confirmed that the tests, with a 70% success rate, are an extra cut. The subjectivity of the committee to take the interview remains and the tragic delays will be even greater. Another negative point: they will be passed through examinations, even oral, and the people who have exceeded the sixty-second year of their age. In our view the limit is too high. The possibility of presenting objections to the recommendation rejecting the application for citizenship, i.e. simple and unforeseen recourse to the administration, is abolished. There is now only a request for annulment before the administrative court: costs, additional difficulties arising and many more. They worsen the conditions for the acquisition of citizenship for the expatriates who live in the country, but also for the children of parents who have been naturalized Greeks and who live abroad. There is an injustice against the people who have taken Greek citizenship for many years, without having the legal conditions, but who has been responsible and responsible for the Greek or foreign state. Such a problem is the relatives of the former Soviet Union who have also sent you a document. We also send them to the courts to be justified, since the administration based on the bill will not reconsider these cases. Finally, it is unacceptable, unfair and unconstitutional, that the provision of Article 19 on transitional provisions, according to which the applications for the last thirty thousand years will be dealt with in the new procedure. You realise that we are voting against this chapter with some very small exceptions. With regard to the provisions on secondments, mutual transfers and other provisions of the JHA, as well as arrangements for temporary staff of the IATA and the staff of the JHA, we will not disagree, we will vote on them, but we will note the following. We must now stop this disgracefulness of fixed-term private-law contracts, not only in the specialty of machine operators provided for in the provision, but in all workers. Of course, the needs that arise are very great both with the opening of rural roads to facilitate the producers who go to their fields and with the disasters suffered by floods and fires in various regions of the country, as recently in Thessaly and the Ionian Islands, which require more care, care for the services with more modern machinery and staff of corresponding specialties, with a permanent employment relationship and not with contractors. For funds relating to the selection of administrations in the public sector, this is not the first time that the government has introduced such provisions. Previous governments did so too. Each government has always cut off and carried out its measures to serve its own staff, its own people. So the "cutter" of the interview is also demanded, so on grounds of subjectivity, with the main aim of selecting such executives who serve anti-grassroots policies and, of course, capitalist development. Obviously, if the formation of an opinion on the individual's personality is outside the scope of the policy applied and the norms imposed, even if it outweighs the other qualifications, it is obvious that they will be thrown out. The government promotes through the final state and the corresponding adjustments to the state mechanism. By choosing a critical mass of management to legal persons, whether public or private, which is the responsibility of the Government, by generalising the flexible forms of employment, by perpetuating the hostage of workers with fixed-term contracts, by satisfying and shielding the competitiveness and profitability of business groups and, indeed, under conditions of deep and protracted capitalist crisis, by exacerbating the contradictions of the capitalist system and by escalating the imperialist competitions that run in the region at the present time. These regulations serve the strategic direction of the more direct placing of public administration officials on the service of capital needs in all sectors of production and services in the economy, to facilitate the movement of capital, to help liberalise the market. The administrative mechanism, i.e. the functioning of legal persons governed by public and private law, is also adapted in this strategic direction. The Government argues that the changes it promotes aim to improve the functioning of the public services, of a more flexible and capable executive state, of transparency, of the public administration’s household, of improving the functioning of the services and the quality of the social services provided. With these central targets, the rest of the parties do not disagree either with SYRIZA - and they support capitalist development, the country's deepest imperialist engagement, regardless of the attitude they will hold in this bill in its vote. After all, with a guide to the directions of the OECD and the European Union, SYRIZA had made such adjustments to the state as a government, in order to make it more capable of unfolding anti-grass policy and supporting the profitability of capital. For the Communist Party of Greece the essence of the problem with the public administration lies in the fact that it serves the goals of the bourgeoisie, the bourgeois state, which are in conflict with the concerns of the working class, the majority of our own people. This is why the first issue in any legislative intervention from both the former governments of the New Democracy, the PASOK, the SYRIZA before and today of the New Democracy, as confirmed by the articles on the selection process of managements, is to shield the continuity of the State, the continuation of the operation of the state mechanism regardless of changes in the government of any objective selection procedures on the basis of the planning of the civil order and its priorities. In relation to the provision for extending the duration of the "Help at Home" programme, the JRC will vote for this provision, but with the sole criterion that these workers and those who are part of this programme continue to have a job, especially in the pandemic conditions. We recall our firm and inextricable position to perpetuate all these workers, and indeed others, in order to meet all the needs in Greece. What are you doing? You have been giving them an extension for over a year now that the final tables have not been taken out of the AACC, and in fact, we have asked for explanations and adequate explanations we have not received for this unacceptable delay. However, the conditions of the pandemic reaffirmed once again the importance of the role played by workers in the "Help at Home" programme, which after 17, eighteen years of work are still under the responsibility of all governments. In the words of alleged recognition of the important work carried out by workers and of heroic attitude, in our view, hypocrisy is too much. In time from the establishment of these structures, local regional authorities have shown a selective memory and recognition, always on the eve of local regional and parliamentary elections, with obvious purposes. The question of working time contracts comes up and comes back constantly with the argument of the next permanentization. And it has become something like the 'Portugal of Arta'. There is, of course, no provision here, even at some length, for recruitment in order to meet these huge needs for development, staffing and equipment of public health centres with regional medical and mobile units and to meet free of charge all the needs for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation in primary health care throughout the 24/7, three hundred and sixty-five days a year, for the whole population and according to the special needs of the elderly, children, women, people with disabilities, years of suffering and goes by saying. Not a word about the integration of all this staff into "Help at Home", at public primary health care units. In any case, for both the workers at the ‘Help at home’ and the cleaners of public buildings, on the basis of Article of this draft law, the extension of their contracts must be valid until the announcement of the final tables in order to ensure a smooth transition to work. Finally, with regard to the so-called development perspective and the orderly functioning of the TAs, provisions concerning TAs are introduced, issues of good functioning, as the Government likes to say, such as the provocative downgrading of local and regional councils by transferring their responsibilities to economic committees, strengthening the legal persons of these business aberrations, such as development agencies, public limited companies and the EBRD, and by prohibiting them as equal bodies of local government that can exercise responsibility for TAs and services to citizens. It also adapts the building services to the immediate business needs of the development public limited companies, and introduces and introduces arrangements regarding the establishment of the country's JHA management boards with a dominant role in the establishment and control of their boards by the mayor and minority municipal authorities. In other words, the government is continuing the unacceptable reactionary arrangements so that the state can move to the next stage of the reactionary modernisation of it, of course, required by the European Union and the large capital directives. On the basis of the latest law establishing the development agencies and the current provisions complementing this law, local authorities, municipalities, regions, local enterprises, development public companies, all types of inter-regional networks and their links are equipped with a new institutional framework, so that they can contribute more decisively to the needs of profitability and competitiveness of capital, to have a more active role in the specialisation of anti-grassroots policy, to make the area more attractive to attract capital and investment, to implement strategic plans for the liberalisation of energy and the promotion of renewable energy, transport, agricultural production, further privatisation of ports, airports, waste management, business use of natural resources and municipal land from tourist capital, as well as the robbery long-term concessions to business groups of municipal property and infrastructure, with tax concessions and tax concessions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u112	Mr Colleague, I would ask you to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Madam President, in a moment. So this form of development companies is not new and it is obviously not innovative. It's a long time ago, which has even failed. Proof is the bankruptcy of many developmentists until today by disseminating the money of the Greek people. Instead of, of course, the recruitment of permanent staff, equipment and support for the services of the TAA directly required, you have even legislated on specific recruitments to development agencies with completely opaque procedures which, although anonymous companies, will manage public affairs. We are therefore categorically opposed to this new role of the Local Government bodies, which categorically oppose the privatization of their technical services' competences, their functioning on the basis of private economic criteria and the logic of the cost of benefits. So all these institutional changes - by closing down - are a follow-up to the reactionary institutions of KALIKARATIS, KLISTHENI I, which over time have established a New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA, while complementing this last law of the Ministry of Interior and the strategic development perspective of the Local Government agencies, which, apart from all the others that have referred to, transforms the mayor from an executive body to a decisive decision, having the right to sign building licences, as if he were a political engineer, topographer, etc., by concluding direct contracts with the EBRD, the development agencies, or the BC. For all of this, then, the Communist Party of Greece is voting against this draft law with any exceptions, either "yes", or "yes" in the articles of the plan. Thank you, Madam President, for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u114	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr Mylonakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill, which is now being introduced to vote for it, relates to a number of amendments to the Code of Greek citizenship, but also to some other issues that it deals with, such as the development of the local authorities. You will allow me before I begin for the bill, to say that today would be an excellent day for which we should all be happy. Because on the one hand justice did the self-evident thing, it stood up to it, it did its duty. It is also punishing, at the moment we are talking about, the procedure at the Court of Appeal to the first degree, for the sentences that the court will extradite in the next few hours. But we would be extremely happy if it would finally close the political chapter of the Golden Dawn Nazis. And why not close the political chapter, ladies and gentlemen, the Golden Dawn Ministers? Because SYRIZA, who all of a sudden remembered again today that he should not have made this criminal mistake to disconnect the criminal offences provided, when he changed the Criminal Code in 2019, and of course I would say, Minister, that you also have a share of responsibility, because while we had asked you to do so, and we have proposed that - remember - the committee should have the incidental penalties entered, it was not, rather from oligopoly, you did not want or rather for what Mr Lebanese said. I would like to tell you here, Mr Levanière, that it does not take much time. Our parliamentary representative, Mr Hetas, has asked you finally to come up with legislation today. We have the melon, us and the knife. We can therefore legislate that the incidental penalties must not be disconnected from the sentence of the felony act. You said, Minister, Mr Levannié, that there are many sentences and we must have a different outcome for each sentence. We will say about this particular punishment of the criminal organisation that the subsequent penalty should come so that it will not be disconnected, that is, they cannot come down to the next election. This is a matter which I think you should see. It's not much time, it's nothing. Civil rights must not continue to have these people who have been robbed in the patriotic area. And because you've remembered over the past few years, I'll say something from my soul. The party president, Kyriakos Velopoulos, who has too many thousands of hours on television broadcasts, knows that. When you hit Golden Dawn, you were trying to convince people not to get carried away. What world? The householder, the family man, the man who was diagnosing about a lot of issues. I would remind you of one of these issues which has manned Golden Dawn: it was illegal immigration, illegal immigration, refugees, as everyone wants to say, I have no problem with it. The other thing was the memos. The third issue, the big one, which has dealt with Greek society and which concerns it, I think, and we may get through it at some point, was the sepsis of the political system, corruption and the complexity. All this raised the Golden Dawn. So, trying to tell the patriots, the Greeks who belonged to the patriotic area that the Golden Dawn should not have a Nazi motif in the hands of a nationalist, Nikos Michaeliakos and his company, to become funnel and swallowed you, then we accepted most of the insults, most of them pre-conflicts, because we seemed to spoil them what they wanted to make and get into society. So today I am extremely pleased - very much! - and I think we all have to be happy, because on the one hand Greek justice has done its duty, it is exemplaryly punishing the Nazis of the Golden Dawn - I think they will be brought to prison in a few hours' time - on the other hand I want to say a sad phenomenon, which Parliamentary representative Mr Hetas stressed this morning, the presence of political parties out there from the court. Since we say that justice is independent - you say that, Mr. Ministers, you, Mr. New Democracy, are all telling SYRIZA that you were government until yesterday - that justice is doing its duty, why did you try to get out of court? Do what? Should the court be forced to make that decision the right one? But the court had taken her out. Judges do not need pressure from political parties. So at least we aspire to the Greek Solution. That's why we came in here to get the logic. To understand what all the Greek people understand. When political parties are outside a court, and the judges inside hear a vulnerability crucified him, but have they already made their decision, what do you want to show that you are pressing the court? On the one hand, this, on the other, what? Can you take the pins? To rob the votes of Greek citizens? You saw what happened to the chief of Officer Antipopulation from Andarsya, so at least we learned, that he was thrown water, thrown coffee, umbrellas were holding up from above, etc. Why? Because some guys who want to play it, too, that they are in legality, that the Nazis, the bad guys - who don't want it - flew for fun coffee and water. Was there any reason for the political parties to go there, Minister? I ask you: did you gentlemen of the New Democracy send representatives, why would you be there? You have to tell the Greek people why you were there. First of all, he is criticised by all the legal world and by prominent lawyers, great lawyers, what the parties did yesterday, who went outside the Court of Appeal. In fact, they are coming to say that what has happened may be the prisoners of the Golden Dawn who go to the European Court of Justice, because the political leaders of the parties have pressed for judicial authority to come up with a result that the parties wanted. Look, I hear these every day on TV. If you see this morning, that's what they say. Why, then, should we get to this point? I would also like to say something that we must bear in mind, to stop some from riding the Golden Dawn phenomenon. The only ones who can say 'outside the monster' are the mothers who lost their children. The mother of Paul Bridge, mothers who lost their children because of the Golden Dawn, by the Golden Dawn or members of the Golden Dawn, but also by the two children of the Golden Dawn, who were executed in cold blood in Heraklion, because they also have a mother. So all these murders took place because of ideology, ideology, Nazism and black propaganda in the patriotic space. Drunk the children, dragged people. Alas, if we believe that there are five hundred thousand Nazis in Greece. Alas. It's for us all to go to the sea to kill ourselves. So, for all these mothers who lost their lives, the court's decision yesterday was a great victory for democracy, and we all have to understand that politicians and the political system have to work for the people. They choose us, they bring us to the House, for them we will work for Greek and Greek. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, I will enter the bill, with this reason, the Greek Solution entered the House, because from the first moment he told you that we neither denounce nor "ouga" to be nor yell nor beat nor do anything. What the political system wants is calm, suggestions and thank God I believe you all understood that the Greek Solution proposals in many cases that the government itself adopted were in the right direction. Now let's go see what's going on in the bill. Mr. Ministers, the Greek people voted for the New Democracy, so that evil SYRIZA would leave so that those people who in 2015 opened the gates of heaven and entered hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants. Do you want us to tell them refugees, do you want to call them illegal immigrants, do you want to call them illegal immigrants? As you want us to tell them. Smugglers, as you want us to tell them. The Greek language is rich. But what remains is from this situation how the Golden Dawn, the monster of Nazism and fascism were born. Violence wherever it comes is violence, whether from the left or from the right or from the centre. We must condemn violence, ladies and gentlemen. And now, Minister, bring in a bill to amend the Code of Greek citizenship. First of all, it is a multiplier, as is most, ladies and gentlemen, of the Ministry of the Interior, which perfectly outlines the future promised by the New Democracy Government for our country and Greek citizens. On the one hand, a powerful state with a party army in the public, hundreds of people of unknown political convictions. On the other hand, a future, Minister, mass Hellenism of foreigners, with a view to their participation obviously in the next elections. I'll tell you something that you remember. If at the moment we give Greek citizenship as you say - which is unacceptable to us, naturalisation must change terms, Greek citizenship - in five hundred thousand, one million, in the next thirty-five years - what will happen? I won't live, a lot of people from here won't live - won't we? - but our children will live. They will live with our grandchildren, who will be foreigners every year in our country, with five six million and another five six million. Do you want our Greece to easily change? Do you want there to be no Greeks in this place? Do you want life not to be like we received from our fathers and grandparents? You think we should leave her to our children, to our grandchildren different? And because I know that many of you go through Acharnon - you were mayor, Mr Kamine - I'm telling you honestly, my soul is caught and I think so to you. If you come any time of the day, I tell you better in the evening hours, hours from Omonia where my office is, until I go to my house in Kato Patisia, I spend Acharnon and I don't see Greek. Greek! A Greek to see. Money, thirty, twenty together. On the beautiful Omonoia Square, as has indeed been done, not one Greek. One! So all these people are hundreds of thousands, millions, do you want to give them Greek citizenship? How will our children stand? What are these things? What things are these and we're not doing anything, unfortunately? We sit and watch and fight in the Greek Solution, but we're few. We're very few! We're trying to raise the tone of our voice. We're trying to bring Greek's voice. We are now learning that illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants and illegal immigrants are going to all regions. The refugees, although few of them, are taking them everywhere. You have so far done thirty two Islamic cities of a thousand five hundred, two thousand, three thousand. The government says: 'We take them from the islands'. And where do you bring them? You scatter them everywhere, in Kato Kifisia, in Glyfada, in Papagos, next to the camp, next to the Ministry of Defence. Everywhere, you disperse them everywhere to make fun of the Greek people and tell them they'll soon be gone. When are they leaving? But we need to move on, because soon our President, who has broken all of Gina's records, will speak to all the bills. I don't think the party president has ever happened to talk to all the bills. This is the beginning of the party, however, since it has become, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we wanted, that's what we promised the world, that's what we're trying to do. Here too, there are too many colleagues and I personally, but also the President, who is making programmes with you know very well. I didn't deny anyone to say their opinion. Never. But, Minister, citizenship, forget it. You do not give citizenship and you have explained to the committees why. I think the term is void. You can give citizenship, you can say that "I do naturalization, I give passports", because it is not possible to give Greek citizenship to people for whom we do not know anything. There came a charterer, a plane last week from the Netherlands, a charter flight to pick up some refugees, says, from Mytilini, from Moria to the Netherlands. Yes, sir. He didn't call anyone. And do you know why, Minister and gentlemen of the New Democracy? You're in government too. He didn't call anyone, because he didn't have any papers. Everything they say is. We give them a card, they have no ID, they have no passport, they have nothing and we give them a card that is said to them, "it's so old". Go to Kamena Vourla, who is the refugee to see refugee who is under nineteen, twenty years old with beards and cigarettes in the mouth, twenty, twenty-two, twenty-three years old. Now you'll bring to Attica from 16 years old and above unaccompanied. What sixteen or more? In other words, 20, twenty-two, twenty-three men, who may have participated in illegal acts in their country, without knowing who they are, we give them papers with some procedures that you are right to adopt, I am not saying you are wrong. It's not just that, it's from other states. But it is not possible as much as to complicate the examinations, to give Greek citizenship. For our old-fashioned relatives, Minister, you must take care of yourself. I have too many complaints. Minister, please take care of yourself and the Secretary-General of citizenship, because the former Soviet Union is being delayed on purpose. While they have a protocol number at consulates and embassy, the procedure is blocked. I don't know what problems there are, I'm trying to see what happens every time, because a lot of people, mostly from the East Attica, from the Menidi are complaining about it. We're trying as a party to see what's going on. But there are problems, which you need to solve. These people are entitled to Greek citizenship, because they are from Greek parents. They are proven by Greek parents, they have Greek conscience. So they deserve Greek citizenship and we must make it easier for them to take it. This is the situation, which we want to say, and the term naturalisation must refer to specific things, not naturalisation to give Greek citizenship. Let's say two things, Minister, about the Otta thing. You brought Law 4674 in March 2020, a law on Local Government agencies. I am referring to Article 24 of this bill. You told us that "when a fixed-term private service takes place for four, eight, twelve months, so that he is not a hostage of the government, we are abolishing this article". You're coming now and what are you doing? I do not know why - perhaps because you were so radical, perhaps because you were blackmailed by your own people, perhaps because there were people who had been hired under a fixed-term procedure and had to help them - and you change that law and restore the old, Law 2190/1994 that was in place, allowing the renewal of the 12-month contract until the end of a programme. So what are you doing now? You do the same thing. Twelve months plus twelve months plus twelve months, three twelve months, so we can give him tenacity. This job is done. You abolished him, you bring him back. And I would like to ask why you brought him back, since then you said that 'we do not want the workers to be hostages of any government, no municipality'. There are elements such as 'Help at Home', which we shall vote on. However, in order not to eat any more time, I shall refer to Rule 28. In each Ministry, you put a separate, general, special secretariat consisting of a five-member selection board of heads. This selection board of heads comes people who attend public administration school and tell you it's unfair what you're doing. You need to see it. I don't think you should leave Article 28 like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Madam President. Another proof is Article 34, so you can understand the ultimate state to what point it has gone. Under the pretext of development policy and the new planning provisions, the government replaces Article 376 of Law 4700/2020, which is yours, and construction services are created in every municipality, which will be managed by architects, agronomists - I do not know if there are farmers - localists, engineers, urban engineers, politicians, that is to say, an informal group of people will be appointed to all municipalities in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek solution to this bill, we told you at the first moment in committee, is voting against it. He does not accept this condition, which you are going to enter into Greek society, Greek citizenship. Greeks are born, Greeks are not born, as Germans are born, Germans are not born, Austrians are born, Austrians are not. Don't confuse the words. I think this must be changed immediately. In addition, naturalisation must be done under certain conditions and conditions. Only those who are legally entering the country, first. Secondly, those who have papers, passports, identities and come to our home country and can cross-check with their countries, embassies and the countries from which they come. Also, a number of articles which are in the right direction will be voted on. The other articles, which are not of interest to the Greek and Greeks, will not be passed by the Greek Solution. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Until the Step is fired and the Special Rapporteur of Mera25, Mr Bakadima, comes, I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Mr Kontozamanis, to put him on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to support the Health Ministry's amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Interior, which consists of two articles. The first concerns the shortening of deadlines for the call for positions of qualified ESS doctors, which will be completed in the next few days, mainly to cover positions in the newly established Intensive Therapy Units. For this particular and only notice, we launch a reduction in time, which concerns the submission of objections, the selection of the post and the acceptance of the appointment, so that doctors who will be chosen to find themselves earlier in these posts can be found. We therefore stress that changes in these deadline periods do not affect under any circumstances and under no circumstances all the remaining contracts under way. In addition, the second article regulates an issue relating to the service of outdoor doctors and ensures the possibility of taking part in examinations for the specialisation of all candidates who have completed the obligation to provide a countrywide service up to the day they carry out these examinations. In this way, we are resolving an issue which concerns a large number of doctors who, although they have completed the countryside service, have not received the relevant certificate so that they cannot give examinations. Therefore, by voting on this article we give the opportunity for these doctors to take part in the tests and receive their specialty more quickly and to be at the disposal of the National Health System even faster. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Minister. The floor is now given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 Mr. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an extensive bill from the Ministry of the Interior with seven chapters and fifty-seven articles, most of which concerns citizenship. Its aim is to simplify the processes of naturalisation of foreigners as Greek citizens with a view to reducing the large number of outstanding applications for naturalisation. According to the explanatory statement, the proposed regulation reassesssssssssss the conditions that a foreigner has to fulfil in order to be able to physicalize, so that the verification of the knowledge of Greek history, geography, culture and institutions of the culture can be distinguished by obtaining a certificate of competence for naturalisation and differentiated from its economic and social integration. If they succeed in the certification examinations, i.e. if they gather 70% based, applicants acquire the certificate and the right to proceed with the filing of an application for naturalisation. The examinations are based on a bank of themes. With regard to applicants who have spent the sixty-second year of their age or who are unable to take part due to diagnosed difficulty in written examinations, oral examinations are provided for, but with an increase of the age limit from fifty-five years as currently in force. This is an increase that we feel sure will lead to a large number of people living in our country for years and being fully integrated into it. At the same time, we consider that, on the issue of language certification, I have said it to the committee, additional provisions should be added to those foreigners who either have another state certificate of language, who have been working for a long time in our country, or who have been working permanently or for others who have been certified to attend courses at a higher education institution in our country, even if they have not graduated or because they have chosen to leave their studies, or because they have not completed them. At the same time we see - as I have also pointed out in committee - that there is no provision for illiterate foreigners, as we do not see there being, beyond the oral procedure - and we should see what cases this includes - care for foreigners who are disabled, but who want to take part in the examinations and be naturalized by Greek citizens. Theoretically, the reform of the institutional framework of citizenship and the consequent redesign of naturalisation processes will contribute to the objective, transparent and rapid return of citizenship to those who fulfil the legitimate conditions but also eliminate sources of corruption and customer relations. Because I said theoretically: unfortunately all this is left in theory if we look closer to the legislation of the New Democracy. As MERA25, we consider that the draft law under discussion transforms the process of obtaining citizenship from foreigners residing permanently in the country, working in it and in short fulfils all the criteria in a matter of class and income. But let's go see why we say that. First, let us start with the paradoxes and costs of the whole process. The cost of the offenders is now EUR 700, after the reduction made. We think it is an extremely high amount for too many more. Of course - let us be honest - the real cost to someone who wants to start the process of naturalisation will be ejected. There can be a few thousand euros. When these people will have to give pan-Hellenic treatment, for sure, and I regard it as a given and agree and have been mentioned by many of my colleagues before me, some who have the financial potential will be contacted by professionals in their preparation, in care centres and in tutors of special courses. This is a fact that turns the whole process into a highly classic process as, apart from being sure that we will see preparation care for the examinations, people who have the financial potential and can attend courses, move forward and complete the process by giving examinations. Others who cannot, will try to read for themselves, to understand the objects and to try to achieve such a high basis with unfortunately increasing chances of failure. So we open the window and the door to create misconduct and as part of preparation for citizenship tests. We've all condemned paradisia. Now, unfortunately, we are seeing a ferry coming up. In particular, with the establishment of the highest level, 70% of the government seems to be pushing foreigners into schools and consciously creating a new market, training courses for certificates of proficiency for physicalisation, as it has not been taken and we do not know whether it is in the Government's intention to obtain any provision for free education programmes. But it is mathematically certain, ladies and gentlemen, that the private sector will rush to fill this gap that the public has left, giving the opportunity and creating tutorial lessons and preparation packages. Of course, we are still trying to figure out how a base has emerged. It was 80% and he went to 70%. In other countries, for example in Germany, it is 50% of the corresponding examinations. But the paradox is extremely high in us. In Germany, the corresponding paradox for the application for naturalisation is EUR 255 for adults and EUR 51 for under the age of 16. Even the paradox for the examination of knowledge, the cost of which is zero, since the basis is ready and is multiple options, is clearly Greek originality. In Germany's respective examinations, costs are only 25 euros. At the same time, there is provision for an oral interview by officials from the General Secretariat of citizenship who are arbitrarily able to reject requests from people who fulfil all the conditions. There is no provision - we have said so, and the institutions have said so - and the Citizens' Counsel has said so - to add an outside member to the overall process, to the credibility and impartiality of the whole process. At the same time, the Secretary-General of citizenship is given the opportunity with one of his decisions to reject massive applications for naturalization on purely class and income criteria. In particular, it may set the amount of the required minimum declared annual income as well as the particulars which constitute the presumption of economic integration. In other words, it may put such a minimum annual income that only a few very few wealthy foreigners will gather. So only they will have the right to obtain Greek citizenship. It is also obliged to set the minimum annual income criterion which may not be lower than the annual total of the monthly earnings of an unskilled worker. So, in practice, all those foreigners who, in our country, have been exploited by their employers, especially when we are living in such a critical period, in conditions of full flexibility of labour relations and a rapid increase in undeclared work are excluded. And to close the citizenship chapter, I would like to say the following. We consider it to be Merra25 that we have a duty to help all people who meet the criteria to be more easily naturalised and not to put further obstacles to superstitious misrepresentation and inappropriate bases by turning the effort to acquire citizenship into a process for few and have. Second chapter, selection of administrations in the public sector. We can only ask ourselves whether this legislative initiative is part of excellence and the ultimate state. Because let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, we have only seen excellence in these months of governance of the New Democracy. What have we seen? We have seen posts of members of the ruling party in positions of power, in public bodies, in executives who have not been able to elect MPs, but are made general secretaries, in the position of praisers of the junta in positions of general secretaries, when we dismiss them from their general secretaries, in their special advisers, in the positions of Nazis in positions of refugee structures, directly assigning masks to ammotis, masks to companies of seasonal species. I could really go on, the list is really great. Now coming to suggest that you are going to legislate on the democratic placement of administrations in the public sector is the least acidification, ladies and gentlemen of the co-government. In particular, I cannot rely on Articles 20 to 23 which introduce a number of regulations concerning the selection of administrations in the public sector, which constitute an unequal treatment practice, but also discrimination against graduates from the National School of Public Administration, thereby circumventing the constitutionally regulated principles and concepts of equality and merit. More specifically, the composition of the five-member selection committee shows to promote clear, opaque and party criteria against all merit, as three of the five members should be the Minister's political choices, and the final selection of the candidate that will cover a post is left to him. At the same time, experience in private and public authorities seems to be equating and the trend towards government staffing with posted officials is increasing. Instead, we should consider all this and this practice to take care to make sure that the human resources currently serving in the public sector are used with merit and proper criteria and, of course, that we always take care of their continuing training, training and specialisation. The fourth chapter concerns the setting-up of the national hospital councils. And, of course, this chapter cannot be considered regardless of what we have seen happening in the health sector since New Democracy took over governance. And here's the rhetorical question, but I'll remind you, what did we see? In many nursing establishments Governors and Deputy Blue Governors, New Democracy states who tried or prepared to come down to the national elections, were not elected, so let us be big-hearted somewhere they should also be at home for their services in the party without of course having examined whether they have any contact and whether they can run a hospital. And not only were they placed and not only did the New Democracy repay its debt to them, but in very many cases with top-downs of everyone - and I will not stop saying it as much as I am MP II Piraeus - the General State of Nice where the deputy commander is fully covered and has the full power of action, it is practically as if it were covered by a protection cloak whatever it does, even if it breaks down clinically, even if it closes clinically no one is accountable. With the provisions of the legislation under discussion, you are now attempting to regulate the setting up of the services councils of hospitals when we have been calling for a long time now with complaints from the WTO, OENGE and other unions that there is no worker representative on too many service councils. Let's hope this is solved. I now move on to chapter five and the 'Help at Home' programme. We have said so from the outset is an extremely important programme, which helps and supports our fellow citizens who are in a more difficult position especially during the pandemic period, which is why we should support it. The work carried out by the workers at "Help at Home" is really noteworthy and we must also ensure that the programme is better managed, because subscribing is a huge issue, but for the permanentization of the employees. Chapter 6 and provisions for the operation of TAs. Here we cannot disagree with the excessive transfer of powers to the economic committees of the municipalities, effectively leaving the municipal and regional councils with few, which is coming to conclude what was done with a first step in August 2019 with your then-in-law legislation that was aimed at ensuring the governance of the municipalities. Proceed, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to gradual and planned weakening of the collective bodies and excessive reinforcement of executives and not to increase the efficiency of the administration, but to implement your own objectives. In addition to weakening municipal councils, we also have deforestation of species. The minimum staff shall be 40% of the posts of each staff category of the address concerned. In other words, it is considered that five engineers are sufficient for the IMOs to function when no reference is made to a specialisation or professional rights with the intended staffing capacity to be left with nothing sufficient. We are told by the institutions that we are told by people who speak every day as if we were thinking that in smaller municipalities in the country the mayor is forced to sign without having knowledge of engineers, because there is no engineer. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mera25 we have declared from the outset at the first meeting of the committee that we will vote against the legislation in principle, of course, by supporting any positive provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u122	Thank you too, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u123	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u124	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u125	I would like to put forward the following legislative improvements here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u126	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to begin entirely differently. Today, he died a twenty-five-year-old, a policeman, who had an accident a few days ago, Antonis Nikos. No one remembered him. Nobody said anything about him. We have said things in here, but those who serve their country are very easily forgotten by all of us whether we disagree ideologically or agree ideologically. It is important to pay tribute to each individual, to each one who protects us to be here today, protects our homeland to sleep alone at night. Unfortunately, we're forgetting about it. I'm on my way to the bill for a while. For the Golden Dawn, this Nazi criminal organization will speak soon. Nationality, citizenship. You have a tendency to the parties, to SYRIZA, PASOK, to the Change Movement, to baptize, Mr. Minister, the meat - fish. I told you in my previous speech another nationality, another naturalisation. You're actually giving substance to something that doesn't exist. You baptize the meat - fish in a stubborn way. It's not a legitimate issue of genus, generation, root. Mr. Theodorakou's grandfather never imagined that after two or three decades or fifty or seventy years or a hundred years the Greeks' genus would be transferred to each Pakistani, Bangladeshi or I don't know what else Afghan. Other citizenship, other citizenship and other naturalisation. And if you want to do some Greek lessons about what citizenship means. It is the straightforward, the straightforward mammal - Greek, we will not be completely mad - and we are born, I become, the birth. How can a Sudanese have a genus of Greek? It's not possible, that you don't understand and it's actually about the genus as tracking as selfishness. I understand that the Prime Minister has an issue with selfishness. He's an anti-antivist, he's said it himself, he's made it public, I understand it. But I cannot accept that my grandfather, Mr. Kyriakos, would think that at some point if his own grandson became a MP, he would give a Greek generation to others who are not entitled to it. Civilization, citizenship, do it. I don't understand why you insist on the genus. I don't get it. It is a legal term and I will say that for the law-makers, for the law-abiding lawyers sitting here in front, the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative. It is a legal condition for citizenship, the status of a citizen of a State. It's a legal term, it's granted by laws of humans. The genus is not granted by law of humans. The man is not entitled to legislate, do we not understand that? Don't we understand that? There's a lot of confusion and you're doing it in total. Each time you baptize the fish meat. I will give an example of the danger of this behaviour of the New Democracy. Citizenship building in 2018 twenty-eight per thousand inhabitants, i.e. 2.8%, Minister, per 100. How much is the electoral limit when you give natives, naturalisations, citizenships? It is 3%, i.e. if we go with your logic, we may soon have a Muslim party in Greece. You don't even understand the pretexts. It is indeed contradictory - which I have and will be tabling in the Minutes - to understand that you are committing crimes. In 2018 alone, we had 2.8% nationalities. What dangers are we getting into? Listen. For me, the New Democracy legislates without thinking - and that is the strange thing - tomorrow. The politician in the final interpretation - our ancestors were saying so - must anticipate developments and not suppress them, as was done yesterday outside the Marios Ice. I'll see you in a bit of this. A prerequisite for citizenship is that it does not constitute a risk to public policy and security. This is the 'dickers', Minister, not to mention the rest. Why do I call it "selves"? You put this on, but you know much better than me that these people throw away their legal documents. Agents are coming along with illegal immigrants, refugees, immigrants, as you want to tell them. I don't care at the bottom of the scripture. But they throw 'em, they kick 'em, they burn 'em. How do you know he's dangerous to public security? Here, my Minister, Hassan Asman Aman Oslan - his name is - he came without papers. I'll submit it to the Minutes. He came with five surnames, six names, seven residence addresses, and six countries of origin. How do you know he's dangerous or harmless? I'm asking you. How can it be so easy to legislate on the leg? It's amazing what you're doing. And because you tell me many times that I have a perception of the inhabited islands, I will insist on that. It's the only reasonable proposal. I don't understand how the Left accepts Morias conditions. I honestly don't understand how you accept Samos and Chios conditions, you, the left-wing humanists. How do the humanists of the New Democracy accept that people live in mud, in microbes, without drains? What does the Greek solution say? In the inhabited islands, with structures of human beings, with cooling, heating to see who are legal and to deport others. It's the simplest of everything without creating explosive mixtures in local communities, without creating reflective racists, if you want. Leave it to the biggest racists - I'll tell you directly - it's the Pakistani with the Afghans. They're killing each other. He hates each other. Their racism is unbelievable for those you know what it means to stay with people from Pakistan or Afghanistan. The biggest racists are those who make clitoritectomy in women. The biggest racists are the ones wearing a bourga on women. The biggest racists are the ones who lock their women home and get married six. Let go of racism intelligence and see the logic, common sense. He needs a little brain, not a lot of brains. And I insist on that. As for the examinations, Minister, I'll tell you what Boris Johnson and the government of England said. So the government of England legislates what we, the uninhabited islands, Minister, say. You know that? They're even fighting because it's too far away. There are four thousand six hundred miles away from England, because the uninhabited islands in England have ownership status, and they can't take them easily, and they can't get to chaos! Indeed, they say that for those who attempt to illegally invade the country from the sea - the United Kingdom - asylum seekers are detained in closed centres, oil platforms no longer used. If I dare say that, would you tell me here, "But what does man say? Sea platforms;’. They're doing it in Europe. And Denmark, Minister, has a particular inhabited island where all asylum seekers are driven, controlled, legally and then transported, where they are transported. You take them from Lesvos, take them wherever you want. The Pentagon? Five hundred people are taking them to the Pentagon from sixteen years old and over? Are you all right? The Pentagon? You take them to Tymbaki, to Anchovie, where is the 116 ward of our aircraft? Do you understand what you're doing? Because I repeat that we don't know who they are. It's not that all these people are bad, but we don't know if Hassan, who says Hassan, is Hassan or is not an MIT agent or I don't know what else. I don't really understand it. You're talking about exams. Have you read the tests in Denmark and Germany, Minister? Why don't you copy these? Let me tell you why you don't copy them. Because they're all gonna fail. Because I grew up in Germany to be - at eighteen, please! - to be naturalized by a German and get a passport - which I never took, I didn't choose - I had to pass through medical examinations and the hundred that go, the ninety are cut, because the tests are very strict. Now you'll tell me, will Pakistan know about Greek history and Kolokotronis, or will he know about the revolution of 1921 and Old Patras German, the raisin? Are we kidding now? Are we kidding the world? As the New Democracy does, it will make Greece "Greece". Understand it, you are making Greece "Hellenic". You're giving anyone uncontrollable citizenship. And this, apart from being dangerous, - I will tell you directly - is also alteration of the electorate and the population, but above all of the very existence of an entire nation that has been in existence for ten thousand years. We're talking about citizenship. You have to understand. Now let's go to the rest. You left Cyprus alone. Today we have a third Attila in Cyprus, in Varhosia. The Prime Minister begins the linen and the greetings. I hope he made a statement. It says that what Turks do and that's just a violation of the UN's decisions. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I've heard from the UN since 1974. When the Greek Prime Minister still hopes in the UN, his hopes will become another national defeat for Greece. That's what the Prime Minister said today. On the other hand, what Turkey is doing today in Varosia, ladies and gentlemen, is very simple. She's not honoring any signatures. It does not respect any international law, it does not respect anything from international legality. So how are we going to dialogue? How today Dendias sees Cavusoglou, gives hands and speaks of dialogue? Today, a few minutes ago, the Foreign Minister did so. How can he do that? Let's talk about it. Who are we talking to? For us there is a solution, an end dialogue. Dialogue with fascists Nazis never does Greece, with any authoritarian slaughterer of citizens and nations! Finally, we are not talking! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I won't tell about Armenia, which I'm still waiting for. The President of Parliament came to the Chamber, but he left. I don't know why. I guess he saw me. Because it still brings the issue of Macedonia to the House and the examination we have asked for. We asked for a resolution for the Armenians as well, to make a Greek parliament a resolution of support, such as the Armenians, when Orutch Race and "Gavoz" were in our territorial waters and our continental continental continental continental continental shelf and our AEZ. Why doesn't New Democracy do it? Why don't you, Minister? Are you so afraid that America or Germany will pull you off because they have good relations with Azerbaijan? Let's go to the Nazis now. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have a short memory. And I say this to myself, who has suffered enormous excitement - I sincerely say this - to the extent of shameful kinds and threats to the family, etc., by the Nazis. Because I was the one who said the Nazis don't fit in Greece, that Nazism has nothing to do with Hellenism and Greekity. I was the black sheep for them. I will not stick to what Mr Ragus said about whether we should bring an amendment to remove political rights. But because I'm a reversible mind, I'll think of something else. Along with the Nazis, Mr. Ministers, why don't you ever tell who the gentlemen are? Why don't you say it, Mr. Theodorikos? Let me tell you. Because this new criminal law they have created, Mr. Colleague, suits blackmailers, godfathers of night, gangs, criminal groups, robbers of drugs, arms dealers, traffickers, slaves, fraudulent group and terrorist organisations. What SYRIZA did with the new Criminal Code was hard on all these gangs, along with the Golden Dawn criminal gang. Everyone's talking about Golden Dawn. She was tried, I'll see you soon. The rest who were exempted by this beneficial provision have you searched for in New Democracy who are they? Did you look for it? Who are they? Who are the traffickers, who are arms dealers, who are drug dealers, who are the strike teams, the terrorists who were in prison? I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you have made a mistake. You fell into the trap of SYRIZA's smarts. These gentlemen didn't do it specifically for the Golden Dawn. Oh, no! For some old friends who served by this story. And the Nazis came out on the "foam" and took advantage of it. To be serious about the Greek Parliament. That's the reality that you can't tell, you're not saying it, so that the Greeks would find out that slaves, traffickers, drug dealers, robbers, blackmailers and the godfathers of night had exonerated with the new criminal procedure that SYRIZA brought. In the sense that it was three to four years in prison and they were leaving. Do we understand that, ladies and gentlemen? Why don't we talk in here? We stayed at Golden Dawn. I'll see you about the Golden Dawn. Yet, along with them, others went through the history of the Golden Dawn and others come out with beneficial provisions. Check out which drug dealers have been out lately. Trading regular, killers of our children who share heroin. Over fifteen people came out with this device. Associations, criminals under ordinary criminal law used what SYRIZA did. And you're staying today at the Golden Dawn and you're fighting with each other, so that the Greek doesn't hear what the problem is, that we're getting rid of drug dealers. They got rid of it, 'cause not us. For God's sake! So let's go to the late democrats now and talk about the Golden Dawn. And I say late democrats because I have a series of statements. I won't expose names. I don't want to. But I'll say their initials. D.M. from New Democracy: "Person of the Year Nikos Michaloliakos", so that we do not forget each other. C.M. by New Democracy: ‘Rupakia must be a rak’. B.P. : "Of course, in collaboration with the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn is not a threat to democracy." When I was the golden people who wanted to kill me - on paper - to murder me politically, functionally, professionally, you said that. F.F.F.R. 'New Democracy and Golden Dawn are brothers parties'. D.B. "My Golden Dawn treats me with yours and yours." I repeat that they are neo-democratic. They said it then. B.B. "A more serious Golden Dawn to accept it, to support a conservative alliance. After all, nationalism is not a disgrace". Clearly nationalism is not a shame. But Nazism, fascism, it's shameful. Let's make it clear in here. They called them New Democracy MPs at the time. And another one. We've got PASOK, too, unfortunately. What can I do to you, ladies and gentlemen? In 2013, Mr. A.L. He said: "Golden Dawn is an authentic activist movement." Ossalte reporter, large-formed, criminal journalist, bails against everyone. Reporting after the Bridge's murder: "He killed him for football." That's what he said. But he had a guest, the Cassier. This is the system that raised the Golden Dawn, ladies and gentlemen. SYRIZA also made statements, tolerant statements, but no such statements. They made statements of tolerance, tolerance, fear, because they were most inflatable above and were afraid of some in here. You may be scared, you people are. I'm not scared. It doesn't matter. Let's go to others, let's talk about everything. F.C. : "Golden Dawn in the worst case makes principle confrontation. Sometimes some "soft", i.e. e. e. excitement and physical damage, falls. Christ and God bless you! That was what you were saying then, you forgot about it. And today you are all coming as Prefects of Democracy to condemn fascism and Nazism. What can I say? I'm ashamed of what I'm reading. There is also a statement today, which, of course, Mr Brutsi explained, that he did not mean it. I won't read it. It is for welcome votes and non-acceptable votes. I think his explanation has satisfied me. Now let's go to SYRIZA. In Kastelorizo, the Kassiro and SYRIZA had gone with Pano Kammenos too, if I'm not mistaken. They went together. You had him with you on the official visit you went to Kastelorizo. You were taking pictures. There are pictures. Let's not forget these. Tolerance does not mean complicity directly, but you tolerated the "snake's egg", the monster of Nazism. You tolerated it and didn't fight it all over again. He grew up, he was swollen, and when you excite it and began to dismiss himself, because they were never democrats, then you understood what was happening. Let's go to the end, so we can figure it out. I am not talking about depriving civil rights. I am not in this process. Can I tell you what happened, anyway? They'll be able to be in jail and go down to the election. That's what we've achieved. He'll be in jail. Could these "ouga", the extreme guys, the Nazis even love them: "And Kolokotronis" - says - "he was imprisoned." That's what I read on twitter. There we reached the Greek, this Greek who does not understand that Nazism has nothing to do with Greece. Our relatives were killed. Me in '41-42, my grandfather told me that in Janitsa eight-year-old relative, my father's first cousin, was murdered by the Nazis, by the Hitlerians. How can I, even now, believe that there must be even a trace of Nazi ideology in my country? It can't be done. I'm not talking about the Hortiary. I'm not talking about Distomo. I am not saying, Mr Theodorikos, that no government has ever asked for corrections and compensation. Nothin'! You're all chasing Nazism, gentlemen. You're right. Within Greece. The Nazism of '41-45 and the corrections - compensation, however, you're not chasing them. Here's the problem. And the Greek people hear them and say that "they make fun of me, they lie to me, they don't tell me the truth." I'm also going to tell you this. I'm not a lawyer. Lawyers are here. Mr. Raguss knows very well about the law. If there is a way to get rid of it - I say it directly, to understand it - of Nazism - fascism, find a way to rid the Greek of this darkness. How is there a law? Can there be an amendment? Can an adjustment be made? I don't know what can be done, but find a way to do it, to get rid of Nazism and the shadows over the House. Finally, to give real solutions to all together, not in the controversy of who did more good or less harm. These are unauthorized things. I'll say the following. You brought it to me on Golden Dawn, ladies and gentlemen, all of us. We've all brought her, if you want. The whole political system. I said it the other day. Because when Greek politicians, ministers and Prime Ministers are constantly lying to the Greek people, when the "nazi" policy of the New Democracy and its leadership - and I am not talking about the German people - imposed "nazi" memoirs, disgusting memorials, anti-grass, poorly undermined the Greek people, led him through poverty in the "Baimar Republic". Luckily, we have. That's where we were going, guys. That's where we were driving with those tactics. It's not just. They all went out on the channels as guinea pigeons, without any suggestions, without a plan. I won't tell about the squares up, down, right that it was Golden Dawn, it was SYRIZA, ANDARSYA. That's not what I'm worried about. They were mistakes made and should not be repeated. The German repressive logic of the memorials continues, I tell you. It's continuing. We have been oppressed, we have sold out everything: buses, planes, ports. There's nothing Greek. And yet, we are looking to find the reasons for the reaction of an entire people, who have led his dignity, his national pride with Macedonian and now we are going to commit another crime with Turkey. I want us to be very careful, because it is very easy to give birth to a'snake egg' again and not to get any of us to solve the 'gord link'. I'll tell you what happened yesterday. I was terrified to see political party leaders outside the Arena Ice, and I say it publicly. With horror, because it means that the justice of the Greek, which is the highest instrument for me, was not trusted by the politicians and, above all, by the Greek political leaders. Seeing political leaders outside the Arena Ice along with fifty thousand people shouting why? I'll tell you what. Because they themselves - together with the director of the Prime Minister's office - did not trust justice. Otherwise, why would he be there? Tell me one reason. In what favoured democracy, in what state of democracy, outside the courtrooms, are they screaming, shouting, screaming twenty - thirty thousand people? You tell me. Don't trust justice? They'll do it from now on. As soon as a court is held, a thousand people will be gathered from outside, screamed and beaten. Are we serious? Are we all right? The justice not to be trusted? Fortunately, all political parties have been slapped by justice with its fair decision! Why did you go politically to take advantage of the story of this happy mother of the Bridge, just to play this morning in the House. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] That's unauthorized for me, my logic. I leave you alone in this partisan loneliness of yours. But if you'd all seen fifty thousand people assembled with crosses, Mr. Comrade, outside of the church, what would you say? "Compare them all" you would say, as you banned the churches, the Resurrection, the Fifteenugusta. Fifty thousand people mobile bombs! There's a coronary here, isn't it? While we are all yelling and we are all shouting that "caution, coronary, masks, enforce this, impose that," fifty thousand people gathered somewhere. These are not mobile "bombs". Is it possible for the citizen to believe us after that? After the doubts of the coronary and the mask will say: "Here fifty-sixty thousand people, to us, did it hurt to be two hundred - three hundred?" Do you understand what mistakes you make and why the 'bug of the snake' is easily hatched? Because with the contradictory you are doing, with the inconsistency you are implementing, you are leading the Greek people to the extremes. That's the accident. And that Illegal Antarsya is coming out and flying to the Chief of Officer's Cup cafes. Where are we? ANTARSYA and Constantine, this left-wing group, which for me are more fascists than anyone, throw coffee at a party president and we are not ashamed. We're not all ashamed of each other! He can't go anywhere with the Chief of Officer's Response. I won't be their attorney, but ADARSYA has a peculiar immunity. It gathers five hundred - six hundred Pakistani and says "to hang the Prime Minister". That was what he said, ladies and gentlemen, and it was not persecuted by any prosecutor. The Minister of Justice didn't say: come here, man. Who are you gonna hang? Who are you going to ostracize? Who are you going to throw away, where are you going to go to jail? Constantine, who totally symptomically was in Marfin from outside when people were burning there. That's a symptom. But whenever he has incidents again, Constantine is there. And no one's bothering this gentleman. I'm telling you this for just one thing. To understand that now the Nazis will have an argument, which I heard this morning by Mr. Handaris, a well-known criminalist, who said: "They will go to the Court of Human Rights and say that the freedom of justice has been violated unreservedly and without any pressure to decide." Bravo! You did that too! That is what you have now managed to give them an alibi to go to the Court of Human Rights because you went outside, you did not trust the Greek justice, which really seized you with its decision. We're going out and wet and wet, and I'm going to say another word from the Nazis because we gave them that right. They'll use it, I'm sure of it. Sure. I'm the only one who's sad about mother. The woman is right. The kid's not coming back anyway. It's for granted. But stop, some of you, taking advantage of the Bridge's mother and every happy mother. Of course, I didn't see any of you for the other happy mother, Katsifa's mother on the north continent, taking out a little tear, a sadness. I heard the opposite. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Nobody in here talked about Katsifa's mother! Nobody's upset! So when the fascists take their lives from a Greek bird, we must not cry, we must not be sad. I disagree with you! I disagree with you and that. You'll be human, philanthropists, above all, with everyone and everything. There's no charity card! And, for the last time, I will tell the Minister, Mr. Theodorikos. Mr. Theodorikos, why not parade on 28 October? Can you explain? Yesterday, fifty thousand people were outside the Arena Ice. What about the worst? Chemicals fell too. People went peaceful, I don't know what happened, again, with chemicals. Hey, what's going to happen? This job, will we have it every time? Nobel chemicals have been taken by Greece, you know that? Nobel Chemicals has been taken by the Greek Police. All the junk there is from chemicals from the 1990s we throw them any minute. So I ask: why not parades? I'm asking you. Tell me honestly why there shouldn't be any parades. Let me tell you differently. Put the engines on. Will the Leopard bug stick to the jeep? I'll say. Will the M90 coroner stick to the helicopter Apache flying from the top? Why not parade? After I told you yesterday that you were circumvented by the Prime Minister's command by the measure of coronary and non-meetings. If I'm not mistaken, the director of the New Democracy went there. So you circumvented it yourself. I would like to say this to close because I need more time. I won't say for the crowd, no. However, I will say something very simple that was sent to me by an elderly seventy - eighty-eight years old by letter. He sent her to me this morning, and I got it. He says to me, "Mr. Velopoulos, we're closed in. We didn't go to church. We haven't translated. We didn't light candles. We didn't go to a tomb of our parents, to funerals of relatives and friends. We booked schools, universities, shops, restaurants, the kiosks at midnight, the house of those working there. Free professionals have suffered enormous damage. We've booked or kept distances to theaters, movies. They canceled performances, concerts. The singers are hungry now. Artists are hungry, they don't have to eat. They've closed theaters, catering shops. People are hungry. We canceled marriages, baptisms, events, parades to see the image of political leaders outside the Marble Ice. That alone is a disgrace!' That's what she sent me, seventy-nine-year-old man. I read it to you to understand why the inconsistency of words and works leads, unfortunately, to the extremities of the world. Tell me which serious country Prime Minister would get a Golden Dawn bill. He went out and made a quiz. Banana is Greece, you guys? A letter from the Prime Minister? The proclamations are made with bread. Every week and an order is made by the New Democracy. Why, you guys, is the Prime Minister doing a homework? She went to tell us what? Isn't there a Minister of Justice? There are no other ministers? He went out to say: 'We ruled Golden Dawn'. He tried it? Are we going insane? Has New Democracy tried it on Golden Dawn? Is that what you think? I mean, we're canceling justice. Didn't justice do anything in this whole story? I don't understand what's going on. I have a problem of perception in relation to these contradictions that New Democracy makes. And let's go to the coroner. Let me read to you what the Director of the World Health Organization in Europe, Clouge. I know the man personally. He says: "60% of citizens in the European Union collapsed psychologically from Lockdown. Huge economic catastrophe!'. It is said by the Director of the World Health Organisation in Europe. 60 percent of people have psychological problems. I told you here that this lockdown story is going to cause problems, I'm closing. It's not working that way. And I have it here all his statement. There is also the statement by the member of the German Committee of Inquiry into the coronary crisis that speaks of the coronary scandal. 'The greatest crime against humanity committed in recent years'. That's what a German scientist says. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too to read it. Because I think you're not doing well, and you're not doing something right. Also, because you like good news, I'm gonna tell you a news story that made me smile. Children from Moudania, students taking possession, in one of their requests in Northern Greece, are also to have prayer. That's good news. The unpleasant thing is that their teachers made fun of them. These teachers-teachers make fun of the next one. If tomorrow morning a kid, a Muslim girl, will want to take his rug and make Muhammad prayer, they'll say it's his right. But when the Orthodox ask for it, they are being ironed. If I were the Minister of Education, I would have asked for these teachers to be expelled. Because you can't racistly treat a man who wants to pray. To Allah, does he want the Buddha in Orthodoxy? I'm Orthodox. I want my child to pray. These are the pleasant messages. They asked for them. Good for the kids. It's at the 1st High School, the GEL and the PAAL of the New Mundania. I thank them wholeheartedly from the bottom of my soul. Thank them wholeheartedly. And I'm talking about our kids. In closing, I'll say about the NGOs. Minister, I have often asked Mr Mitarakis to tell me how many non-governmental organisations were registered. I've been trying for about a month to get in and it's not open. Why isn't it open, so we can see how many non-governmental organisations have written the famous one in the register? Why don't you tell us? Let me tell you. I have it in front of me. I replicated it and will deliver it for the Minutes. He says: "Greek Republic. NGO Register’. You're pressing on, zero! It's today! Do you see it? This means that the New Democracy has legislated six months ago, the NGO parrots have come here to say 'a, we control the NGO', but nothing has been written in the register. What would I do? I would've shut them all down. Why? It's illegal. Those that weren't written, they're illegal on the basis of the law. Why doesn't New Democracy close them? Why don't you shut them down? Instead, the Minister goes and gives Mrs. Lyberaki 900,000. Okay, he's a relative of the Prime Minister, Solidarity Now, Soros. I don't enter family responsibilities, but they happened to be related. You gave 900 grand. Why? Tell me about it. Instead of shutting them down, we're giving them money. Also, I will tell you directly, you lie to the Greek people. That's the worst of all. You're always lying and that's what bothers me. We've warned you. Stop lying. The European Union does not allow you for closed structures. Here were your ministers and the two committed themselves to the fact that the structures will be closed. But Europe does not allow closed structures when you get money from there. And because you get even a little money from there, the structures are open. We tell you closed structures, uninhabited islands, to live as human beings. These people aren't beasts. They're not animals. They are not individuals who are on the sidelines. To help them, to check who they are and to deport the illegals. It's over and out. This is the only solution. But when you live in the country that the prosecutor in Evro asks - here we are, gentlemen of the New Democracy - for the prosecution of citizens who have helped the National Guard together not to enter illegal immigrants within Greece. He was prosecuted to civilians. He asks for further information from each citizen separately. Do you understand where you've arrived? In other words, Evros, who is our line of defense, where we call the Thermopylae, should be inhabited by the resident who protects the Thermopylae. What does the D.A. want? Pull his ear. I won't tell about the farmer who was convicted. Other "Greek" and he. He ran off with twenty-six months in jail. But do you honor the Greek who protects our borders? Are you all right? Where exactly is the Justice Minister asking you to explain? This is how serious states that protect not home, but citizens. I'm closing up with this: Listen a little. Yesterday, Mr. Petsas made a list of strategics - as he said - investments to see how much liar you are. I'm sorry to call it raw, but you are. I'm sorry. Liars at economic level, right? So he talked about strategic investments. I read you the "very large" investments Petsas himself announced. RES, PVT: Eighteen wind stations in Karystos Municipality. Evia's gone. They burned it and filled it with wind turbines. Five windy investments of the company ‘Kamaridis GlobalWire’. It's windy again. "NOTIAS" consortium photovoltaic. ‘Consortium Solar Power’ photovoltaic company. Tourist and holiday center of Chania, Ierapetra Municipality, tourist accommodation, building of tourist accommodation boutique hotel in Ios, two tourist accommodations in Ios. Are these investments? Are you all right? Does he know an economy, the Treasury and Mr. Peucas? Investment means jobs, gentlemen, I'm not setting up twenty wind turbines, fifty, a hundred, two, and I'm putting an employee underneath guarding them. Investment means giving jobs, producing wealth, exporting. What am I going to export? Air? Are you kidding me now? Is tourism an investment? You don't understand what we've suffered with the coronary? They're high-risk choices. Understood. Are these choices of a minor development character, and is this your economic strategy? Where's the primary sector? I'll tell you about the fish farms, the fishermen, the livestock farms, the farms. Produce products, process them, export, bring currency, bring money, have jobs. You're making fun of the world. I sincerely regret that I did not expect a Prime Minister who truly appreciated him as a person, because I thought he was a reformer, to have the old-party perception of lies building policies. With lies you don't build up politics, because at some point it's time you're being called to pay for your lie. You will leave the government, you may not rule, but the Greeks will suffer the suffering of these choices. If you do not do any self-evident things, if you do not hear what we say about the production of wealth, we will, unfortunately, have unpleasant results. And as an entrepreneur, I tell you that from January 1,000 businesses will be closed down. I'm telling you right now. Thousands of businesses. I would ask Mr Stavourra, please, Mr Brutsi to make a hundred and twenty instalments, because there is a problem in the economy. People cannot pay tax, businessmen cannot pay the insurance funds. Do something to keep jobs, otherwise it will no longer open to Greece. You're blocking those anyway every night at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has now been asked for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very much, because we are completely out of our time and because there have been too many colleagues - about fifty - to be consistent in our speaking time. Here, Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll try to be the first to fully keep his time and if I don't, stop me, please. Remind me. Because sometimes I get carried away. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is well-meaning - and we all agree on this - that yesterday something very important happened, something historic about our country: it was finally found guilty as a gang, as a criminal organisation, a gang, indeed, which promoted the party and the organization - the spontaneous organisation of part of the Greek people - has been plunging our place for many years, more than ten years. We're all happy about that. And we are all happy that our justice has stood up to the circumstances, look out, not because its decision satisfys all of us anti-fascists, as sometimes anti-fascists in democracy can be wrong, but mainly because yesterday justice has applied the law, the text law. And this is very important, it is a very important guarantee for the functioning of our democracy. However, as it is useful to learn lessons from the various historical events - particularly from the very dangerous events of our place - that they should not be repeated, we consider that it is very useful from the outset to stand up to what was, what was sought and, above all, what created the Golden Dawn. We believe - and we think it is very difficult to have a counterpart on this - that the Golden Dawn is a clean, clean child, a child of the memorials and the impoverishment that they have brought to a huge place, the majority of the Greek people. Look, the Golden Dawn is true that there was prior to the memorials. It started its "carer" as a newspaper in 1981, if I am not deceived, and already since the 1980s it was set up in an organization, club and finally in a party, which, I would remind you, came to get more than four hundred thousand votes of our Greek fellow citizens, not, of course, because all of them suddenly became fascists, but because they were all misled. And it was easy to be misled precisely because it had intervened a period that was impoverished. The man who doesn't have to spend his day, because all day he's trying to find something to eat, the man who doesn't have any prospect, his child and his grandchildren, is becoming more easily misled, ladies and gentlemen. So Golden Dawn may have existed long before the memorials, but its response, its acceptance to large, broad masses of the Greek people, is modern, just with the beginning of the memorials and peaks in 2012-2013. We don't know where it would be if they didn't murder Paul Bridge. However, it peaks at the heart of the memorials, in this great memorial, the second Memorandum, by Mr Samaras. Also, the Golden Dawn - to tell you everything here and not to forget - is a child of the channels of our parasitic oligarchs. I don't want to say their names again. You know them. It is Mr Alfouzos, Mr Vardinoyannis, Mr Marinakis, Mr Sundays and so on. All of these, I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, have been smuggled into us, and we have been served - on several occasions - as the charming, as something mysterious, a lifestyle that comes from the precipitation of darkness, with wonderful costumes, with marvellous artichokes, with wonderful bats, mainly the ceremonies. This - we all remember, I imagine, and I don't imagine anyone questioning it - was coming from supposedly progressive channels. I remember presentations from journalists like Mr. Teloglu or Mr. Chima, showing us parade in semi-wondered by these wonderful fetish bands clothed by these males, masterpieces, our homeland, the nationalists as if at that time, these fascists. Therefore, let us all remember in this Chamber that the political system is co-responsible for the creation of the fascist and terrorist organization, in our view. A few words about the history of her attacks. You know, Paul Physsas, the last hero of Greece, was neither the only one nor the first. As of June 12, 2012, four people had been attacked. They had the misfortune not to be Greeks, to be Egyptian fishermen. So they had attacked these four people. They were unable to kill the three who were inside - they were unable to reach the house - but they almost killed the fourth, Abouzid Eparac, the Egyptian 28-year-old and father of three children. He had a double fracture in his jaw. He's gone. The lower jaw has been detached from his skull. I say them, so that the people who see us out there and understand what fascism means. At the same time, with the assassination of Paul Bryssa, these brilliant fascists and the FAME were attacked at the workshop of the Communist Party of Greece - their trade unionists I mean - in Perama on 21 September 2013. What did the crew do? He had the nerve, he dared to decorate a few meters away from the portal of Perama’s Shipbuilding Reconstruction Zone. There were nine injured then, all officials of the Communist Party of Greece, including the trade unionist Piraeus Sotiris Pulkoyannis. Do you know why I'm saying all this? Because we can't be fooled in here any more, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. The Samara government had several dead and almost dead representatives of parliamentary parties, chief trade unionists who simply went to carry out their trade union activity. And he didn't do anything. He was washing his hands. He made the statements that were heard a little while ago by this one, the Step. These statements were made by government, top, former ministers and vindicators of your prolongation, such as Ms. Bakoyannis, who commented on another journalist who said that "with a serious Golden Dawn we might work together and support, to avoid these disgusting people who want to get us out of the memorials". I say all this, to remember that by the New Democracy Memorandum of Understanding, you were not on your own at first, then the other half left and you were on your own - the Memorandum Government of Samara - because it led its greatest interval - other murder attacks took place. New Democracy didn't do anything. You know what he did? He sent Mr Baltako the director of his political office to discuss what Golden Dawn will vote for, how he will find a way to support the Memorandum Government under the table. Because over the table Golden Dawn was the most memorial party we've ever seen. Underneath? Notice what she voted for in the Samara government and how much she supported it. So Mr Baltakos was the link to vote for what the Golden Dawn voted for. Mr Baltakos was not a random neo-democrat, he was a well-known nationalist and was the right hand of the Prime Minister of our country. He was the director of his political office. So you did not just take - as the Prime Minister said yesterday - the initiative to strip the place out of junta and fascism. On the contrary, you tolerated him - I will not say that you have implied him, it is a very hard expression, but I avoid it - while he was dead in front of your eyes, systematically dead. Well, for foreigners, we did not expect any particular sensitivity from you left-wingers. But at least for the almost dead Greeks we expected it, which were the trade unionists of the Communist Party of Greece. I quote in passing that the DIA team made the world record cover 100 meters with engines, with motorcycles in four minutes and forty-eight seconds. That's what police evidence says, that's what official reports say. That's how they made it to the place where they stabbed the Bridge. One was stabbing him, another fifteen were holding him, which he had already managed to pay at the moment of his fair will. So to make all this very clear - I would like it not to be done - to say a few things about history very specifically. Look at how things have been. On the morning of September 18, 2013, Paul Physsas was murdered. The next morning, 19 September, the then Minister for Civil Protection - which the current Minister does not at all protect the citizens at all, I will tell you what happened yesterday, I mean the Greek people not as a party - Mr. Dendias sends the prosecutor thirty-two documents that he had in his drawer for so long. He didn't think until then it was a terrorist organization here. He considered that they do well and have thirty-two pleadings written concerning the Golden Dawn and its attacks. So this accompanying letter has given the line since then for the kind of persecution that the then Samara government wants. And the line is for a recommendation, an address of a criminal organization and not - as it would certainly have to - for a terrorist organisation. This development is an ironic of history, because the initiative to initiate a judicial prosecution in the Nazi gang is credited to the Samara government. Ironic is, of course, that it has been recorded in a variety of ways - I have told you before, I do not repeat it - an underground connection between the Samara government and the rest of the Nazis, which was extended by preconsensual agreements for votes - as I said - to designs - I am sorry to say that - for possible coexistence if things are reached in the unprecedented and we are at risk of the left. The Bridge Killing Luckily left no room. Now, Madam President, I will go through what happened yesterday. Yesterday we all went over the board and you and you and we celebrated the decision of democracy. I am pleased to say to the President of Greek Solution that the political leaders were, in our opinion, the political leaders, because they were reasonably the people of whom they were leaders. The people did not go because they question Greek justice, despite the fact that they would have the right to do so - ladies and gentlemen - after my political opinion on the subject of the prosecutor. He had every right to question whether justice would be done. However, we did not go there the Greek people and we, to a certain extent, represent him - as some doubts about Greek justice. We went to the democracy fair, we went to see that justice is finally working in the country. We didn't go to pressure, celebrate and you were with us. We were all there together. Inside the festival were children, schoolchildren, high school students, students, supportive people who had come as couples very touching. I was crying. I was walking from the contribution of Queens Wisdom and Alexandra, and until I got out of the courtroom I cried at my fifty-five. I thought I had many decades to see - and I'll still cry if I keep going - the Greek people hugged to be here. And then at 11.20 a.m. is the decision. And 11. 20 seconds and twenty seconds we had the luck of being in front of the court of Appeal in Mera25, but also the PAME, also parts of SYRIZA, and also Antarsya, who, incidentally, am peaceable, Mr. Velopoulos, is nothing illegal. He has been taking part in the Greek elections for many years and has had the right to exist and to take part in gatherings. He has the right to have his views that disagree with ours. I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. So, unforgettable at 11.20 a.m. and a few seconds we accepted - personally I accepted - a homogenous chemical, toxic, homogenous, homogenous of these - what do they say? - that's depriving you of breathing. We've taken a normal attack. Mr. Chrysochoids replied that a hundred fifty molotov had been dropped. It can't be done! Mr. Chrysochoid, I'm sorry, it's not time. One hundred and fifty molotovs in seven-and-a-half seconds - so it took from the announcement and the festivities until we accepted the homosexuality - it's not possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But that is completely insignificant, because sometimes the police make mistakes and can hit protesters. It's not something allowed, but it can happen. We're not unreasonable. What cannot happen is a MP, that is, you, me, any MP of any party other than Golden Dawn, any other normal, legal party, go to two men of MATs and say "Stop hitting a little. Can't you see that the world is leaving?' And this man answers him: "Go on.. the first subparagraph is replaced That's what it means. It means a diversion of institutionalism. And when he answers: "I am a congressman" and shows him his identity, the man of MAT returns him, "One more reason to get you..." This concerns some men of MATs we hope and know that this is an exception. By the way, the kids of MATs are our children, they're popular kids of popular families, we don't give them to you. But there are droplets among them like yesterday. Nor is this a crime because a man of MAT is entitled by his poor education, by the darkness that has been nurtured - one not all, is the exception - to say stupid things, to be fascist in a representative of us. He could be to you, Minister. Maybe it was you and not Mr. Varoufakis. What is unexplained, however, is that the Minister for Civil Protection does not immediately order the take-off of the head who was there at that time. And since he has not ordered it - and I am leaving, Madam President - we are of course very blessed yesterday, since it has not taken place so far, and if Mr Chrysochidis does not resign, he will abdicate - apologise for the market expression - his political leader, the Prime Minister of our country. Let him do it now. It's never too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Liupis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, your current initiative with the bill you have brought to the debate and vote is important. The first part reforms the process of Greek citizenship. The current system is slower, less efficient and, above all, with strong elements of subjectivity. The Committees on naturalisation for foreign foreigners are being abolished and an objective procedure is introduced in accordance with the principle of equality and with the standards of foreigners. An examination will be carried out twice a year to obtain a certificate of naturalization, which is now a prerequisite for the acquisition of Greek citizenship. The new intact pan-Hellenic type examinations include an examination of the Greek language level B1. At the same time, it is considered with a reasonable paradox 150 euros knowledge of history, geography, Greek culture and state institutions. The whole theme will be derived from a Internet-based topic bank and accessible to all stakeholders. Details such as the smooth integration of the applicant into the country's economic and social life require an interview with the candidate as a last stage before acceptance or rejection of the naturalisation is accepted. The second chapter of the bill relates to the overall functioning of the Greek State and is anachronistic and often biased the way in which administrations continue to be selected in the public sector. Today's changes really take place. The unresolved position of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for dignity in the staffing of the state mechanism is being acted. A transparent procedure is set out for the selection of all Presidents, Vice-Presidents, Governors, Deputy Governors, Deputy Governors, Chiefs, Directors and Chief Executive Officers of Public and Private Law Legal Persons. Specific conditions are laid down and the best-qualified are chosen on the basis of their formal and practical qualifications. Prerequisite is to hold an IEI degree, to know a foreign language very well and to have five years of work experience. There is a moleculation procedure for formal education qualifications, experience qualifications and their overall suitability based on structured interview. The procedure shall be conducted through the AACC and the committee responsible shall end up with the three most prestigious, so that the supervising Minister chooses one of them. The rest of the bill also includes very useful arrangements. The Secretary of the Ministry of Health shall be responsible for the establishment of the Selection Councils for Hospital Heads and for the appointment of their President. The secretaries of the boards and their alternates shall be officials serving in health regions and designated on a proposal from each commander of the sanitary region. They are extended - and rightly so - until the appointments have been completed by the respective notice, workers' contracts in the 'Help at home' programme. The government continues to modernise. The Human Resources Register of the Greek Ministry of the Interior acquires interoperability with the Ministry of Labour's "ERGANI" and thus gains access to all data, especially with regard to the working hours of the employees. They support local government development programmes, with arrangements allowing technical staff to draw up and consider project and service studies without requiring the recruitment of persons under a fixed-term contract. A solution is given to the problem of subscribing the municipality's construction services. Transnational and graduation cooperation between municipalities and regions is allowed for the exercise of the powers of town and country planning. Following the economic support measures from the pandemic, the rent reduction arrangements for cage leases in public areas, sports centres and gymnasiums belonging to local and school canteens are being extended, as was correctly added by ministerial amendment, because these people are also the victims of the coronary. Overall, it is clear from the Ministry's point of view to enhance the role of local government. Another step is taking towards strengthening the country's remote and small municipalities. Mountain municipalities up to thirty thousand inhabitants, as well as all island municipalities can provide free feeding and subsistence to seconded employees. This makes it easier to staff technical and economic services and local authorities, providing an additional incentive for those officials who wish to settle in these municipalities. Finally, with Amendment 495, for the first time, mothers who are engaged in an indefinite contract of employment to legal persons of the general government with civil servants are treated as mothers for the specific maternity provision of the OAED. In conclusion, today's bill makes a decisive and absolutely necessary change in the way Greek citizenship is rendered to foreign foreigners. The perforated system, which allowed the development of even customer relations and caused injustices, ceases definitively. The new procedures are distinguished by their transparency and impartiality and should, in my opinion, be supported by all political groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek justice yesterday offered a huge service to the Greek society, finally exempting it from the criminal, fascist organization of the Golden Dawn. Now, it remains in the orderly state and the citizen's obligation that this wound opened by the Golden Dawn in society, in the hearts of society, be permanently closed and never open again. The "never again fascism" remains to be won in the social field with struggles, which we all will all give because the Golden Dawn was not something that fell from heaven. There are many people around us who are fans of fascist and racist ideas, and they remain untouched, and the main thing is that even today they are protected. These enclosures have had and even today have channels of communication with the extreme right within the government party. Mr Baltakos, of course, you remember very well that he did not function on his own hand when he was speaking with the leadership of the Golden Dawn. I beg your pardon very much, but we cannot close our eyes to the fact that these enclaves have contact and with certain minority circles within the Greek police, which also dropped the police yesterday by breaking down a grand concentration, when there are other ways of dealing with the minimum bypasses. Crystals against peaceful protesters such as our MP, SYRIZA MP, Miltiades Hatzigiannakis, are not behaviours that should pass unnoticed or naturally be understood as normality. Finally, these engenders have contact with part of the media, the media department that cared about the leading members of the Golden Dawn and today, wickedly, equates them with popular protests, gatherings, proclamations and this equation has to do with the actions of criminals, a criminal organisation, reproducing government statements trying to exploit the anti-fascist climate to promote, quite simply, an agenda of authoritarianism and the reduction of democratic freedoms. Coming now to the regulation of the Legislation on Citizenship, the title of the bill is given. We see that the super-candidate for naturalisation, which the legislator of the New Democracy has in mind, has been staying in Greece for the last ten to twenty years and in conditions of deep economic crisis, should work constantly, should find the time to form itself so that he can write perfectly Greek, and be perfectly aware of the Greek language and history, and the institutions, and should be fully integrated into the Greek society, and of course he should have an inappropriate amount of money to try out his fate in naturalisation. Ladies and gentlemen, income is a classic criterion, which has absolutely nothing to do with citizenship. It is quite clear that these arrangements are not intended to streamline any procedure, but simply to discourage interested parties from applying at all. And as on so many other issues, which the New Democracy is dealing with as if they are not there, as if they are not seen, so it pretends to solve the issue of naturalization in what way? By minimizing them. In the second chapter now, with the selection of administrations in the public sector, it is a monument of hypocrisy by the Government of New Democracy with the Bill for the Final State. Nearly immediately after the elections, the process of staffing the administrations of the legal persons of the public was abolished through the executive register, in order to follow this nomination, which had as basic and often not only a party status. Residents of the strong New Democracy family, ultra-liberal states were appointed to positions of the permanent administrative hierarchy, even in positions of responsibility, effectively breaking the effectiveness of the state mechanism, which is gradually becoming incapable of doing anything but to reproduce party executive prefecture. And since the blue posters have already approached the three thousand, breaking a new record every month, now in New Democracy they are coming back by legislating a new process back. This is because despite the influence of the media on the well-known list, society is now in favour of the various direct assignments, the "scole-score", the masks "spirits", the useless floating dams and so many other feats of the blue party state. But even retrospectively, ladies and gentlemen, the new legislation is in favour of party excellence. That's why he's a little bit of a participatory qualification. It gives a great deal of weight to molecules in the interview, while clearly less is given to objective elements of the candidate's curriculum, such as graduation from the National School of Public Administration. Is that ever possible? And, of course, the absence of New Democracy to local government representatives is enriched with Chapter 6, with the arrangements for OTAs, where the transfer of responsibilities from the Municipal and Regional Council to the Economic Commission of Municipalities and Regions respectively, in order to weaken the role of municipal and regional councils and so provides for either the allocation of OTA actions as a whole to development organisations or the transition of decisive responsibilities to a fixed-term contract under the title of "special partner". The aim of all these initiatives, as under Article 103 of the Constitution, such competence is defined as being illegal and that visas and study approval rights have only the permanent members of the ATTs, it is the neutralisation of state control at central level, but also the cancellation of the mechanisms of self-government in order to protect it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Madam President. For all these methods which force the State to operate under a permanent derogation from the principles of merit and all good procedures, citizens are very concerned. As much as the New Democracy and the friendly media will show the fact that the conditions for naturalisation become more stringent to highlight the so-called household, the irregularities, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, are elsewhere and are very serious and cost more and more every day. And one last thing. For thirty seconds your tolerance, Madam President. Because since this morning we have been hearing strong criticism of the Civic Opposition by the ladies and gentlemen of the Government and of the Greek Solution and, above all, of the Change Movement, I have only to say this. As far as government officials and government MPs are concerned, precisely because you are in power for fifteen months already, you must at some point stop opposition to CSR. There's been an election, SYRIZA lost it, and you're a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u134	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u135	It's an officer's case to criticise. Is it not your basic and central argument for any criticism that you are being "what did you do?"
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u136	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u137	I'm closing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u138	Nearly nine minutes. Please. Seven minutes is the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u139	Thirty seconds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u140	You told me a moment ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u141	Just one thing. And the old Criminal Code could not be imposed on deprivation of civil rights if it were not an irrevocable decision. Second, the Government of New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u142	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u143	Please, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u144	Please, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u145	I'm asking for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u146	My colleague, you have one hour to say thirty seconds. Fifty more colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u147	But I'd be done already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u148	No, you need to hang up now. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u149	Okay, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u150	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u151	The Government of New Democracy has already changed the Criminal Code twice so far and this provision has not changed it. Therefore, we do not understand why you have been criticising SYRIZA since this morning and you do not take responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, there is always tolerance. But when we spend so much time, I think we are insulting the other colleagues who will probably speak from three minutes to the end. Do you think that's right? Is that fair? Now Mr. Frangidis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin and say that yesterday was a historic day for democracy and Greece. Democracy has won and the victims have been vindicated. Justice stood up and condemned the Golden Dawn. Fascism has no place in our country and our lives. The fight for democracy is a constant responsibility for all of us. This means that, vis-à-vis the citizens, all the political forces must speak the language of the truth responsibly, interdisciplinaryly and assume the responsibilities that they are responsible for, which, unfortunately, we have not seen this morning. As SYRIZA's Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, the changes to the Criminal Code that took place in June 2019 substantially soften the sentences to the golden people and do not deprive them of civil rights. So the greatness of a soul in politics is a necessary element and the rapture of yesterday's decision does not honor anyone, whoever appeals to it. In the draft law, it is common ground that the way the government legislates is inappropriate. You brought to the House, Minister, once again a large number of articles that were not in the consultation. In fact, you have reached the point of bringing amendments last night, one of which is a mini-legislative bill, without consultation. The greatest democratic, in other words, opengov, which our party has introduced, is systematically bypassing it at once. You are trying to fit in just one bill of important issues, such as citizenship, public administration and local government. Each one should be a separate piece of reform legislation with vision, design and strategy. Instead, they become part of a bill of arrangements and purposes, which has also been drafted with care and care. You are dealing with the issue of nationality by soft nails, when there is a need for a comprehensive legalisation and a new code resulting from an extensive and in-depth dialogue with society, specialists and bodies. Even these provisions that you have put them between so many others fail to fulfil requests, such as simplifying procedures and speeding up examination of pending applications. You maintain all the previous procedure and add the written examination with an exam that is still high, despite the decrease you have made following the reactions, to EUR 150 from EUR 250. In combination with the paradox of the application for naturalisation, the process becomes cost-effective and dissuasive. Furthermore, in order to be able to respond successfully to these demanding tests, there is surely a need for support, which you do not now provide, but you do not let anything be understood about the future. Therefore, two options exist for applicants with limited economic potential, which are the majority, either not to proceed to the process or to refer to misconduct. You have called on the system that implements countries such as Germany and France, but you do not provide compulsory entry courses at little or no cost, as these countries do, and as they have to do with a progressive and democratic state. The requirements for stable work and the specific income criteria you set in this difficult time also work dissuasively. What can I say about striving about thirty thousand people with pending citizenship cases, those who have already paid paradoxically? They have been waiting for years and now you tell them that since April 2021 they should also join the new process. But with the enormous subsidization that exists in the relevant structures, it is clear that they will not be able to deal with these cases until the end of March, so it is a deception of these people. So you're going to sue the wait and start from the beginning, reminding poor people? Do not forget that the state has the role of teachers towards the citizens. One final comment on the provisions of citizenship is that the Secretary-General is given overpower. A centralised system, without scientific and social control, is being established, from which the independent authorities and other responsible bodies and bodies are absent. Regarding the provisions on public administration, I believe they are revealing your real client party face. The superstition for excellence, which New Democracy flagged SYRIZA, seems to have gone for good. The occupation of public sector administration by blue children continues. The large number of posters and the awarding to them of increased responsibilities characterise the entire public administration. The value of increased formal qualifications is downgraded. It is important, therefore, to restore those who have a simple degree and postgraduate doctorates, especially the degree of the National School of Public Administration, that these are now fine letters. Wanting to put an overlap of credibility and integrity in the setting-up of management boards, which are essentially party committees, you have the President of the AACC to sign the relevant decisions, thereby questioning the credibility of the institution. Finally, for local government, you have reached the point of legislating yourself and the same from your election and then constantly modifying your arrangements. This shows that you are legislating with incredible carelessness, but also with despicability. You are making municipal and regional councils unresolved and weak, remove them responsibilities and raise the Economic Committee - which is technically most of it - in superpower. You seek the manipulation of local government rather than its emancipation. Unfortunately, you are not able to strengthen, independently and give it a development perspective. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that we agree. The second article on participation in the specialisation examinations of those who have completed the compulsory agricultural service with a simple request, I think, is in the right direction. As far as Article 1 is concerned, in relation to the time-limits for calling for positions of specialised ERC doctors and in relation to covid-19 now and to the objections against moleculosis that have been reduced from seven days to two days I think it can be three, four days. They must first be notified, and you must definitely see the delay in publishing in the FEKs where there is the long delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u154	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment of the Code of Greek citizenship that brings this draft law, let me say that we are opening for our country, because we have the reform that the draft law brings into the institutional framework of citizenship which creates terriblely dangerous side effects for the future of Hellenism. Let us take some examples of this bill that proves Herod for the Greek nation. Article 3 replaces Article 5a of the Code of Greek citizenship of 2004 and shows the Government's willingness to facilitate the naturalisation of foreigners, perhaps in its spirit, to block our culture, just like SYRIZA. But is this thing possible, ladies and gentlemen? In other words, any foreigner who simply knows the Greek language and knows some basic points from the history, geography and culture of Greece is automatically becoming Greek. What sense of open borders is it that shows New Democracy and SYRIZA in a country, Greece, which is at the most crucial geopolitical point in Europe? And to give you to understand, which serious country, bearing in mind Greece's neuro-algal position on the map, would thus have given foreign nationals a simple nationality and citizenship? In other countries that are serious and organised the conditions for naturalisation of foreigners are much more specific and strict, and these are, in fact, countries which are considered to be tolerant in dealing with illegal immigrants or irregular immigrants or illegal immigrants, as you say them. It is a great irony - in fact - a nation such as the Greek, which has remained solid for thousands of years and homogeneous through foreign occupations of centuries, from long and bloody wars, from a thousand two calamities of fate, to presently give the Greekity to any foreigner. That's why I'm saying this draft law is Corfu for Greece and the Greeks. But now we are going to have another issue which many devalue in this Chamber and outside it. It is a major mistake, almost criminal, this match that is being made in Greece between the concepts of citizenship and citizenship. At last, another thing must be citizenship, namely to be born Greek, to be Greek and another citizenship, which means a legal link between the citizen and the state. It is said by the words: citizenship is the strength of the nation, while citizenship means obedience to the law of the state. How, then, do we identify two concepts completely different from one another? It is done with fraud, ladies and gentlemen, this thing, just to facilitate bills such as the present one, confusing meanings and interpretations. At last, citizenship is never removed. It cannot be removed because the genus is an integral element of the soul, of the blood, of the spirit of man, while citizenship as purely legal and state term can be removed at any time. Do you now understand the huge difference? But now this bill goes on to give citizenship to foreigners and even to any mistaken immigrant who illegally entered Greece. Tell me, does that make sense for someone to enter our country by non-legal means and then for them to be able not only to naturalise Greek citizens but also to take Greek citizenship? On what basis does that make sense? I'll tell you what. Based on the logic of multiculturalism and globalisation that wants to level it all and eliminate a nation history such as the Greeks from the map. Maybe someone's talking about racism and xenophobia. Of course not. Racism and xenophobia would be if we wanted to eliminate these people from the land. If we wanted to take their own homelands and impose other customs and customs. We're the opposite. Because we respect every nation and nation - we want to respect first of all, however, our own nation, this sacred place for which our ancestors gave their blood - which is why we say no to such bills. That's why we in Greek Solution have a central slogan "First Greece, first the Greeks!". Turning to the articles of the bill, should not the time condition for obtaining citizenship rather than citizenship be above, for example, at least ten years? You also say he knows Greek history, etc., to be a Greek citizen. That doesn't tell me anything, because, yes, he might know all that, but that doesn't mean he's going to respect it. What do I do if we give him citizenship, but he wants to bring the law of Sharia to our place next day? Did you think of that in New Democracy and SYRIZA? What reason does it dictate to give Greek citizenship to foreigners whose two parents are not Greek? Sadly? Lately they are the criteria for the performance of Greek citizenship, as we read them in Article 3. Should it not be a basic condition for nationals to be subject to checks on the criminal background of the alien, both in Greece and in the country of origin? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Madam President, for one more minute, please. If he has committed crimes either in Greece or in his own country, how will we give him the Greek citizenship without control? A data record of the alien should therefore be provided, where only after a full and thorough investigation has been judged if he fulfils the criteria for citizenship. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In closing, I invite you there to see the issue of citizenship again, it is very serious. For example, in Germany or France they do not just grant citizenship. Because changing citizenship means changing the cultural identity of man. We in the Greek Solution are against the identity of citizenship - citizenship, and we believe that even the acquisition of simple citizenship to foreigners must be stricter and ultimately, let us think about the Greeks who have so much problems after multiple crises that we are experiencing and focus a little on them. That's why we're in the Greek Parliament, to serve the Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u156	Mr Ploris from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, it was reasonable that there could not be a legal person coming to support what we heard this morning from Mr Ragosi, but then from the SYRIZA colleagues who went up to this step here. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, I understand that you have a difficulty today, because it is not to answer what I will tell you now, but to answer what Stavros Kontonis said this morning. That's who you need to answer. So let's go see what's happened, so people can just understand these things we can't argue with. On the left there is an inconsistency, which is inconsistency, which is to refer theoretically to approaches that it wants for criminal law and to be afraid of when the time of the crisis comes to take responsibility. Article 187, paragraph 3 of the previous Code. Anyone who runs a criminal organization is punished for ten to twenty years. That was the penalty for the criminal organization. Those who were sentenced yesterday, if the previous Criminal Code applied, would have a penalty of ten to twenty years. A week before the elections, you changed the Criminal Code. You voted for him, ladies and gentlemen. You came here and voted for him. Criminal organization 187, paragraph 2. Anyone who runs a criminal organization is punished for five to fifteen years. We cannot disagree on that. Amid the trial of the Golden Dawn that you knew this change would affect those who would then be condemned as chiefs and directors of the criminal organization, you knew they would have a better framework, five, ten, fifteen, twenty. That's what you need to answer. You have to say what made you want in the criminal organisation to have a smaller penalty framework for the director, when it was open and the case of the Golden Dawn was pending. But you were afraid to come here and say, yes, we thought the penalties should be smaller. You dare not go up and say it. Because today the penalties we will hear about the criminal organisation on their worst scale will be fifteen years, while the previous legal framework would be twenty years. And so, the legal attendants of those who have been convicted thank one to one of SYRIZA's MPs, Paul Paul, who was a MP, Costas, who was a MP, who came here and voted to change the criminal context and to lower the sentences of the director of the criminal organisation. Secondly, there was the sentence that someone directly lost their political rights for ten years. Don't get confused, these are always for irreversible decisions. Mr Raguss came here to tell us this morning that he would bring an amendment. From now on, everything that has to do with electoral rights is not directly from the Constitution, so with the deprivation of civil rights it is for irrevocable decisions. Obviously, the previous Criminal Code was the case for an irrevocable decision, but we knew that when they were condemned irrevocably, they lacked their political rights for ten years. You're here to change it. Why did you change it? Because you have come and said that these are concepts of the right of the past, there must be no deprivation of political rights. You don't have the courage to admit it. Because I can hear this left approach. That was the left approach. You said that there should be no deprivation of civil rights. You must have the courage to support it today and say that there must be no deprivation of civil rights. Because if you think there should be, it means that you've changed it badly then. We can only agree on these things or disagree. Or is the principle that you said that there should be no deprivation of civil rights and that we are abolishing the deprivation of civil rights and obviously this deprivation of civil rights applies to all, or you are coming and saying that we were wrong and that there should be a lack of political rights. You are now coming - while you have created this problem with your vote in June 2019, when the whole opposition was gone and told you you are not legalised, because in a week's time we have elections and you have reduced the scope of the sentences - to deal with the problem, from the electoral law that will again be dealt with when there is an irrevocable decision. And how will it be dealt with? Not with the deprivation of civil rights. This is a penalty that can only be provided by the Criminal Code and has been abolished and if it is now in the Criminal Code it does not include those who have been tried until that provision has been reinstated. It'll only be a steak of election. That will be in that moment in the irrevocable conviction. So a reduction in penalties. So the sentences that will be heard today for Greek society to know that they will be reduced, because politically SYRIZA decided to have another framework of criminal organization. And why did he decide, ladies and gentlemen? This is where we'll be telling truths. Because they wanted to reduce penalties and terrorist organisations. It's in the same chapter. The terrorist organization that has greater despair as a crime could not have smaller penalties than criminal organisations. Everything had to be reduced. So a reduction in the penalty of a criminal organization, and the penalties today will be lower, because you voted for it, and no deprivation of rights. Why? Because then you believed and said that the position of civil rights is outdated, because they are the remains of the right-wing state and now you understand that you have made a mistake. Report by Mr Varoufakis, who has made a great impression to me, to see how many times there is ignorance on the left. What did Mr. Varoufakis say? "You must dismantle all the officers of the MATs." Why? Because he denounced something. Someone who has a strong inner part of justice would ask for a check on his complaint, not to be dismantled. Because if he's telling the truth or lying, it's just a matter of proof. But you see here what consistency is, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday it was Mr Varoufakis' waiver of immunity for disobedience, then with the porters. And I've uploaded the video Mr. Varoufakis was saying Mera25 is against the lifting of immunity. Yesterday he asked the committee not to waive its immunity. So that's the problem on the left. And what's going to be left in history - and I'm closing down, Mr. President? That the persecutions on the Golden Dawn began on Antonis Samaras, the sentence was made against Kyriakos Mitsotakis and because of Alexis Tsipras the sentences will be smaller.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u158	Mrs Sakorafas has the floor, and immediately thereafter the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor. It is a good request to colleagues to keep the seven-minute time, because the list is long, as you know, and the meeting will reasonably be brought to an end at midnight. Come on, Mrs. Sacorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. I was aiming at today's meeting to talk about the crucial points of today's bill, a framework of citizenship, which is characterised, I would say, by political micromagneticism. A pointless and unreasonable tightening of the process, but also the conditions for naturalisation. You look like the state has some reason to fear any foreigner, even the one who has achieved such an incorporation, to ask for Greek citizenship. The fear and retreat of the stranger has a specific political mark, gentlemen of the Couple. As for administrations in the public sector, the opposite direction. Not tightening, but optimising both the conditions and the process. Here, the purpose is the party abundance of the state and what you fear is the dynamics of public administration. Afraid of its own staff and want to replace it with extraterrestrial days, with qualifications that are completely degraded, up to the levels of the particular deficiency. In the words of merit, legitimisation and in practice a number of procedures for the deportation of public administration. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the safest way to cultivate undemocratic concepts on the basis of society. We all have a responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, and I feel the debt based on my parliamentary presence all these years, to demonstrate the criticality of the circumstances, especially at the current juncture. I have no so-called denounced attitude, but there is a sense of responsibility that does not allow me to silence. When the country's Prime Minister himself says that there will be no controversy, is he aware that he is undoing the very essence of parliamentaryism? The party ban on Members' opinion is a direct violation, I would say, of the heavy circumvention of the Constitution's requirements. I wonder whether there is a better gift to each fascist, hidden or obvious, for the disdain and undermining of the Parliamentary Republic. So here's a typical example. The selfishness of party power distorts the function of institutions and opens speculators to the anti-democratic ideologies of fascism. It is easy for everyone to condemn fascism. But at the same time everyone in his public speech can seek more serious fascists to support a conservative government in Greece. We have not heard until now, nor apologise for the zeal to recognise any fascists as institutional actors of the democratic culture and regulators of developments in the country. There are even your ministers who have expressed their political relevance to Papadopoulos or Patakos. Man has, of course, a right to change, but he must say so clearly and clearly, otherwise he must tell us with the courage of his opinion, which in democracy is an obligation, that he is in the New Democracy, in that he considers this to be compatible with his positions in favour of 21 April. We haven't even heard from them since today. In the other part, and the removal of the subsequent sentence of depriving civil rights of the criminal Nazi hierarchy, it also has this signature. The SYRIZA signature, unfortunately. I'll say it as nice as I can. Was that just an unseemlyness, a temporary lack of consciousness about the evolution of the historical trial of the Golden Dawn? Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is not an abstract concept, an easy word for use in school fairs and politics, a voids of content. It is the essence of the culture, which requires a daily and endless effort to protect and shield it. The daily wounds to it for the sake of short-sighted purposes even if they seem small cause irresistible harm and above all give good ground to the development of supposedly antisystemic perceptions that turn directly against democracy and form the basis for every fascist political presence. Continuing this matter, I will come to the day before yesterday. Yesterday with absolute government responsibility, this unpleasant aspect of Greek reality again emerged. That was the essence of the completely indiscriminate attack by police forces - and I say this in the name of knowledge because I was there - for the unjustified dissolution of the absolutely peaceful people's gathering, outside the court of appeal, and I say that in the words of knowledge. Specific mechanisms wanted to give their history in a certain way, not to allow the people gathered to celebrate yesterday's decision. To celebrate, ladies and gentlemen. It is not even worth defiance that Mr Chryssohoid's allegations that the concentration was dismantled because of hundreds of molotovs. And if it fell apart, it was dissolved because of three water bottles. As long as we were there, Prime Minister, we know the reality, and it has nothing to do with the ministerial psalmology that is inextricably directed towards the whole society by the Minister. The Minister for Civil Protection acts as the representative of the Prime Minister and for reasons not the time to analyse, he has declared an informal war against society. A simple episode of this war was yesterday's attack. The attitude of a combination of coup d'état seems to accept the terms of war with society. I said yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, that the courts do not condemn ideologies. Justice, in response to its institutional debt, specifically condemned extreme crimes of organised neonazi activity in Greece. And this is of genuine historical value, because it also confirmed in this institutional area a given objective reality: that the political action of Nazism is always expressed in criminal practices. But we're not done with fascism. The snake’s egg is alive, it is fomented by the policies we have experienced every day over the past few years. The fight's not over and the fight's on. The duty of every conscious citizen is to participate and I have succeeded is the responsibility of all of us here in Parliament. I want to close with one truth. The Magdal Bridge at the decision hearing broke out yesterday shouting "my son, you did it". That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. It had to be sacrificed in such an inconceivable way as to show the reality that the political system brought to panic. Then alone then, the institutions were activated. Then the withholding files and other crimes were recovered. So this is the reality: In the spirit of the system, in the spirit of conciliation, tolerance, or even of the subjection of fascists, Paul Bryssas finally succeeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u160	The President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was a leading moment for the Greek state. From the junta trial, we have to live at this time. Let's all celebrate it together for a few seconds. The people have thrown the snake's egg out of Parliament in the previous elections and the judges, doing their duty, have shut it down in prison, not for their beliefs, but for their crimes. We, as MERA25, said, weeks ago, that when the condemnation, which we hoped will come as it came, will only celebrate for five minutes of the hour, because immediately afterwards we will relaunch the fight against the poisonous ideas of the Golden Dawn snake's egg which, unfortunately, were not condemned, which, unfortunately, have not been incarcerated, which have unfortunately perpetrated not only Parliament but also the government and a large part of society. Eventually, we haven't even had a chance to celebrate these five minutes. Actually, forty seconds the festival lasted. The Mera25 block in the area was right across from the court of appeal, at the junction of Luke and Alexandra, right where it started - and I state it categorically - the unpredictable and undisputed breakdown on the part of the police. I emphatically state, ladies and gentlemen, that we were there, where the so-called 'Aidas', 'air' and the men of the MATs began at the same time casting down compressed water and tear gas, which happened just forty seconds after the announcement from the voices of the condemnation of the Golden Dawn as a criminal organisation. There was not a single molotov in the whole area. I testify to you as a witness. There was no reason, no real threat, neither to the justice building, nor to the police, nor to citizens, nor to property. When my wife and I were able to get out of this difficult spot and started to climb Luke up to Lycabetto with my own eyes, I saw a platoon of the MATs throwing tear gas back on the protesters - some of the old were vomiting and trying to breathe - who were trying to get away by climbing Luke up to Lycabetto. I was on the same level not as the chief, but the first man in front of the rest of the platoon. Very calmly, despite my breathing problems at the time, I asked him to stop throwing chemicals at people who were leaving and were not in any way a threat to anyone, even how much for the police or human property. After devouring me the worst way, again calmly and as calmly as I could, I made it known that I am a MP. And then he turned around and said to me: 'One more reason to...' by filling out a threat that I am not allowed to communicate to our Parliament. Colleagues of the Couple, be careful, please. None of this matters to anyone, Baroufakis, who is a Member of Parliament. It is not a personal matter, it has nothing to do with the party to which I belong. Two things matter, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple: First of all - and think about it - if a policeman at a time when he is over his duty is comfortable threatening a Member of Parliament, how do you think that body will behave? Secondly - to think of the bitter irony - while the leaders of the Golden Dawn were condemned within the court of appeal, their ideas and hatred - not to me, not to say that I think he did not even know who I am - but their equals to the Members of Parliament, to the Parliament, to the Parliamentary Republic was expressed without inhibitors at that time, this golden hatred against parliamentaryism, to all Members of the House, as well as to all Members of the House. Think about that. Since we at Mera25 are well-qualified, I asked to speak with the Minister of Civil Protection. I was invited by Mr. Chrysochoidis with his nobility and we talked. I explained to him in greater detail what I just told you right now. In fact, in his honour, he said that this is unacceptable and would be taken over. He wants to investigate what happened. I have asked, in order that such an administrative investigation can be carried out, not dismissal, but pause, that is to say, that one or more officers responsible for this platoon should be made available. Otherwise, how will the SAD become, ladies and gentlemen? Then Mr Chrysochoidis turned to me and said, "But are you asking me to make myself free?" With that phrase, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister annulled his politeness. Who kept Athens up yesterday, Minister? The body of a state that did not bring discreetly and participated in a platoon throwing back tear gas into peaceful protesters, when some of them with respiratory problems were suffering from being removed? The officer of this platoon who ordered them to do that is the man who held Athens up yesterday? After a conversation and the Chief of Police made me known that they will proceed to a sworn administrative examination. I wish the performance of responsibilities would go ahead. But how will this be done, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, when Mr Chrysochoidis himself canceled this whole process of administrative examination by Twitter, deciding alone that there were a hundred and fifty molotovs and six hundred "bugs"? We'll wait for the SAD. Until then, I ask both the Minister of Civil Protection and the Prime Minister who appointed him: Minister and Prime Minister, do you control the Security Body or control you? Is the unjustified dissolution of the peaceful festival forty seconds after reading the condemnation of the Golden Dawn as a criminal organization or despite your command? Tell us. Did you come out to cover with stories of autumn morning policemen who dragged the institution of the Greek Police and the majority of PM police officers and people who are democrats, who are officials, workers, poor children of our people or have you been aiming at this dissolution from the outset and after the cover-up of what happened? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised at what we are seeing. I heard the Prime Minister in his dilemma after the announcement of the decision to strive once again to restore the logic of the two extremes, condemning at the same time the gold and antimony. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a false argument by the goldenmen that they resisted the memorials. But the same falsehood is or the same is your argument that on Golden Dawn it was born by the people's struggles against your memorials, which your memorials "fflicted" Greece, humiliated the Greeks and immersed the bankruptcy that your governments brought in 2010. Prime Minister - I hope he hears me - every time you equate the peaceful people's assemblies in the squares, which were aimed at democratic participation in the debate on the exit of our country from the crisis, the crisis that the oligarchy brought not the people into the squares, the snug egg, because that is how, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, with the absurd logic of the two extremes, you rinse the Golden Dawn. No, ladies and gentlemen of the Memorandum Arc, we won't stop telling you that your two-sided account is balm in the Nazi soul. We will not stop telling you that you are washing them out, Prime Minister, when you put the Golden Dawn criminals in the same bunker as the democrats, whose only crime was to discuss with impeccable democratic procedures, participatory procedures in the squares for debt, unemployment, poverty, which your own memorials have made. Two ends logic from who? From Mr. Mitsotakis? Of you who participated in a government whose general secretary, the well-known and unexplained Mr Baltakos, proved to be fine with the golden ones? You who played with the idea - don't you, dear Mr. Babis Papademiriou, who are not here today - alliance, an agreement with a serious Golden Dawn? I was in the studio, and I heard your colleague say it. Do you dare put antifascists in the same bag, antimonist, democrats with snake's eggs? You dare. That is why we are here to degrade the absurd memorial logic of both ends. As much as you don't like it, we'll remind you. Golden Dawn was crippled by the catastrophic recession brought by your memorials, which, in turn, were aimed not at saving the country, but at saving the oligarchy that brought the cache in 2010 initially of the oligarchy of the Franco-German banks, the first Kastelorizo Memorandum, later until now, and the fifth Memorandum that comes next year will have to serve the interests of the foreign oligarchy parasites you represent worthy of this Parliament. Yesterday the Golden Dawn was finally condemned. Well, that's where we can all celebrate together. But, ladies and gentlemen, the roads here divide us. This condemnation is and will remain incomplete as long as the Greek governments on the one hand continue to support the memorial tombs of Golden Dawn and on the other hand to table bills perpetuated beyond the poisonous ideas of Golden Dawn, for example today's bill. Ladies and gentlemen, when unscrupulous racists can no longer ban foreign naturalisation in their own countries, whether we talk about Britain, Australia or the United States at some point, when racists cannot stop citizenship on immigrants who have now come to be civilians, then do you know what the unscrupulous racists do? There are preconditions for building walls which are inaccessible in particular to the poorest foreigners living in the country and who are entitled to citizenship. That is what the 'drug' bill you brought to the plenary today is doing. First of all, let us be clear about the citizens who are listening to us in their homes, we are talking about immigrants who meet the government's full criteria for obtaining Greek citizenship. They are the new Greeks, the Greeks before the gates, our new fellow citizens, our new ambassadors, ambassadors of our country. Think - and someone who has been through this procedure in another country - how a country such as Australia is strengthened every time a Greek in Australia, who has passed the naturalization process in Australia, comes to Greece, goes to Italy, goes to the United States and speaks with the best words about Australia. Yes, but this, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, presupposes a naturalization process that leaves this man with a sweet taste, not the bitter bitterness you are planning to satisfy your own extreme right, which requires new walls in the path of these people. For example, you know them, because you are unfortunately in agreement with them: the arrogance of an electronic paradox of EUR 550 to apply for naturalisation, while in Germany it is EUR 255 and for children under the age of 16 it is only EUR 51. An additional cost of EUR 150 for a mere examination of knowledge automatically carried out electronically without any substantial marginal cost. In Germany this is EUR 25. You ask for their multiple-choice examinations to be 70%, while in Germany it is 50%. An oral interview is provided for three officials of the General Secretariat of Citizenship who arbitrarily and without any accountability they can reject requests for cost 700 euros for poor people, by people who fulfil all the conditions to receive Greek citizenship. In fact, we read in your bill: "The general secretary of citizenship gains discretion with a monocomb to reject massive applications for naturalisation of potential Greeks with purely classic, income-based criteria. In particular, the Secretary-General shall determine the amount of the required minimum declared annual income, as well as the particulars constituting economic integration presumptions for the period considered.’ In other words, nothing stops the Secretary-General from setting minimum annual income such that only the very wealthy foreigners have the right to Greek citizenship, another form of Golden Visa. But even the Secretary-General should be a good man and want his law to help him put a minimum annual income criterion that says he cannot be less than the annual total of the monthly earnings of the unskilled worker. Do you understand what you're going to do? You are going to rule out preliminarily any foreign workers in our country have fallen victim to the exploitation of their employers, especially in flexible working conditions. Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, commenting on the decision of the Golden Dawn tribunal said: "However, the trial of racism, intolerance and violence within society remains constant." I agree. Mr. Mitsotakis is in agreement with these nice words he said? How do you talk about the constant condemnation of racism in society yesterday and the next day you bring such a bill to vote? Do you realize what you're going to do? Do you realize that you are making it impossible to acquire citizenship to many immigrants and to their children who, other than Greece, do not know? Do you realize that they would also include Shahzat Luman and perhaps his children if they hadn't been murdered since the Golden Dawn? Do you realize that the deterrent and hostile nature of the conditions laid down by your law for the performance of citizenship will poison the soul of the next Greeks? Do you realize that this deterrent and hostile nature of the conditions that enter your Government into the xenophobic political bow of Golden Dawn escorts across Europe, Le Pen, Orban, Trump outside Europe, Salvin to turn closer and all these Golden Dawn escorts? Do you realize the devastating impact on the country's image, on the runs of the country in a difficult period for our national issues? Do you think of what impact this bill has on the eyes, the soul, the heart of European democrats concerned with such phenomena of systemic xenophobia and class discrimination? Ladies and gentlemen, some people who are watching us will say: ‘You are not cut, Varoufakis, for strangers? For the Greeks nothing?’ Ladies and gentlemen, this is the toxic record left behind by the Golden Dawn, the account that together I would like to see all root out of this Chamber, by this society. Because I care about the Greeks, I care about immigrants. Do you know why, ladies and gentlemen? Because seeing how a state treats the weaker immigrants, one understands the plans of oligarchy for the poorest of the Greeks. This is why the fight of Mera25 for the non-preferential Greeks, for the Greeks and Greeks who don't get through, is a struggle with our struggle for human behaviour toward the devastated strangers. The fight against racism and xenophobia and, of course, the snake's egg is one and it is a struggle of folk, international, national and patriotic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u162	The next speaker is Mr Chrysomalis Miltiadis from New Democracy. Mr. Barkas will be followed by SYRIZA and then by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Kamine. It is a good request for the seven minute, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Chrysop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by reminding Mr Varoufakis, who, in his rhetoric, is used to saying half the truth, that Mr Baltakos was released from the then Prime Minister within seconds of the date of the video coming out. And as he himself says to this day, while he does not continue to have anything to do with the then Prime Minister, he was unaware of it. That's all for the story, to be recorded. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, we experienced a truly historic moment for democracy yesterday. We have lived through a genuinely historic judicial decision, which demonstrates the validity and independence of our justice, a decision with special weight for the whole of Europe. We are the first country to condemn Nazism after the Nuremberg trial. It was a decision that uncovered the wolf of the Golden Dawn from the premise of the democratic political party, with which it had given substance to its criminal character, a decision that does not merely recognize the guilt of the members of the Golden Dawn for the abominable crimes being accused, but dismantled any suspicion of randomity and named after the strings and gave murder orders in the name of their fascist idealism. It was really a great day for democracy. However, hypocrisy has not been missing. And I refer to you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Why, although you have been here with us to rise these days a wall against fascism and the Nazi formula of the Golden Dawn, waiting for the judgment of justice, no one can forget your attitude, verbal and political attributes over the last few years. We cannot forget your attitude to the then Prime Minister of Greece Antonis Samaras, who alone gave the battle against golden populism, who had the political courage to send to justice all the cases that proved the criminal character of the Golden Dawn and to support in every way the investigation of the judges, these same judges who you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, forget to mention and thank you in your communication yesterday, those judges who investigated, who compiled the multipurpose suggestion and bound the case beyond doubt. You owe them thanks, but you owe them an apology. But first of all, you are all due to an apology to Antonis Samaras, because your own officials and your own MPs were shouting that such a case-file will never reach the courts - remember them? We will remind you of them - and they were glad to say that the Golden Dawn should not be dealt with with the prosecutor and how to get out of law is a manoeuvre of Samara and justice, with only the aim of its votes. You were talking about it. Remember your inner-party moaning about whether you would vote or not to remove the immunity of the Golden MPs and your constant complaints that the reference of the Golden Dawn is political persecution. Here - if possible! - We remember your proposals for a letter vote by the convicted Golden Members of Parliament! Have you forgotten? We don't. We cannot forget your condolence with them in the famous "no" of the 2015 referendum, nor your joint walk to the Aesthetic Kastelorizo in 2016, which you were photographing with them. We cannot forget the statement that there are no welcome and unacceptable votes to vote in favour with 180 votes in your bill on simple analogues, no matter how apologically Mr Voutsis was trying to justify it today. You were also sure that in this bill you had guaranteed the support of the Golden Dawn, because for you the vote does not "smell" and you did not hesitate to accept the support of the Golden Dawn to place your chosen Mrs Than in the Competition Committee in 2018, because for you the attitude of the Cross Dimas to publicly deny his election as President of the Republic by voting on the Golden Dawn is fine letters. And today we all understand, as society has understood, the political transaction that is hiding behind what we are hearing. Because bad lies! It's a political transaction to pay back the political check on Golden Dawn, which together you dropped the then-government Samaras. You came on the eve of the elections in June, before the elections - in particular, the then Minister for Justice and the current director of Mr. Tsipras Kalogerou and the Deputy Minister, known to everyone, Mr. Papagelopoulos - to change the Criminal Code and the sentences to fall into 'bads'. How ironic of luck! The same article on the recommendation refers to Mr Papagelopoulos. Maybe he knew something, he'd show. However, the transaction also seems to be in order to dress it up with the left cloak and easily go through to your own people, you have argued that this is the case for terrorist organisations, as Mr Ploris said earlier. But, if you remember, you were made up of the components, saying that you are blocking the trial, that you are washing off the Golden Dawn, that you are giving her a simple criminal treatment. Today Mr. Kontonis was very pleased to tell you. That's the reality. We have celebrated lies and hypocrisy in the four and a half years of SYRIZA - ANLE rule. We have had insults and threats. We danced from "or we or them, to end them." You did not learn your lesson from the sovereign people in the 2019 elections and continue on the same path of hypocrisy, believing that the people have short memory. You refuse to recognize that yesterday's historic decision on our democracy is due to this fact, to people like Antonis Samaras, whom you have been insulting, slandering and attempting to "finish" politically. But the people now know and are not manipulated by your unexistent moral advantage. I will borrow the title of a book by Takis Lazarides, who quite rightly says that you are not an ordinary left party that respects the rules of the Parliamentary Republic and says to you: "Thankfully for the country and all of us who have been defeated, companions. Fortunately for Greece'!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy "Integration of the European Union Directive 2019/904 on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment". Next speaker, Mr Barkas Konstantinos, from SYRIZA. Mr. Barca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, thank you very much. "The flesh of our flesh," said the two former Prime Ministers of the New Democracy when referring to the far right of our country and the fascists who acted all these years. "The flesh of our flesh," they said it was the far right. Mr President, today is a beautiful day. It's a beautiful day for the democracy of Greece. Today, the country's anti-fascist movement can stand up, with high stature, since today the neo-nazi formula Golden Dawn is also officially criminal organization. It is very important to speak of a criminal organisation, since before this historic decision Kyriakos Mitsotakis in an interview said that Golden Dawn is as if there is no and that violence in Greece only comes from the Left. He was denied by the judges themselves. We welcome the turn of the Greek Prime Minister towards democracy and the anti-fascist movement. Mr President, in the past few days, we have decided not to deal with the micro-party confrontation that the New Democracy wanted to drag us into through the announcements and positions of the Government representative. We, Mr President, have decided to turn all our powers, both in Athens and in the province, into yesterday's mobilizations, to say a resounding 'no' to fascism. Yeah, well. This son, this brother, this friend, the great antifascist, Paul Physas, succeeded and succeeded on his own. Well, honor and glory to this lad. We owe this victory to the family of Paul Physsa, to his mother, Magda, to the families of the victims - who you did not talk about - of the criminal organization Golden Dawn, who lifted all this burden. 'Lethromatic immigrants' you tell them. In political law, the lawyers of victims and their families and journalists, who some did not close their eyes and left this case in the dark, informed the world day - day - moment. We owe a great thank you to the left-wing fighter Manolis Glezo. He is the one who after the assassination of Paul Bryssa with a delegation of SYRIZA MPs - for the rest you lie - collected all the cases, documents and sources to the then Minister for Civil Protection Mr. Tyndias and asked him to do something. Mr. Dendias, with his announcement yesterday, recognizes this act. Mr. Mitsotakis has been washing away the crimes and murders of the Golden Dawn. Because two years ago he had said to him that "Golden Dawn is like not there, violence comes almost only from the Left". The New Democracy MP, Mr Papadimitriou, asked for a serious Golden Dawn to cooperate with the New Democracy. Samara's General Secretary conspired with the members of the Golden Dawn. We don't say it or the video says it. They say the messages found on the phones of the Golden Eatings, which demonstrated the conversation between Baltaku and the Golden Eatings. The New Democracy hand with the Golden Dawn divided the Greeks with the fascist statements of treason in the Embassy Agreement. You won't find a single photograph of Golden Dawn officials in the squares that you've been reporting for so many days. But you will find many photographs of Golden Dawn with you at the syllables of the Macedonians. Mr. Mitsotakis has made the children of Pattakos and Papadopoulos ministers of government. Today, they come to move the finger to SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and the Left to collide with the neonazis. To end New Democracy's fairy tales and vulgar lies in trial. The trial of the Golden Dawn began in 2015 with the Government of the New Democracy not even taking care of the existence of a room in order to carry out such a great trial. If the SYRIZA government had not taken a series of institutional steps to speed up the trial, it would end in 2030, and if. The creation of new chairmen at the court of appeal was opened and the court of appeal was released, which was designated as an area for the trial of the Golden Dawn. During the six-month abstention of lawyers, the Athens Bar Association refused a request for political treatment to exclude the trial of the Golden Dawn so that it would not be delayed. The implementation of the unequivocal demands of the civil action has been promoted by the Kalogero, after the fact that the members of the court have been given a discharge of all their obligations to speed up the trial. There were also more than fifteen suitables per month to speed up the trial. The lawyers themselves recognised that these measures eventually led to an acceleration of the trial. So many unleashed lies have never been in political dialogue. Well, from the New Democracy, we've been waiting for it. I get it. The Movement of Change, however, what reason does the rapporteur have to come to testify to such lies? In your lies, gentlemen, of the Change Movement, Mr Kastanides himself answers, who says: 'And the old Criminal Code cannot be predicted to deprive civil rights'. So, what's this kind of spice about? As regards the new Criminal Code, the new Criminal Code, passed in 2019, was drafted by a special legislature after 10 years of work and was not the job of SYRIZA officials, but top professors, judges, lawyers of the country. It provides for a greater and effective creation of penalties in relation to the old Criminal Code. With the old Criminal Code sentences were nominal and false. They may have been too big on paper, but, after all, a smaller part of it was being worked out. Instead, the new Criminal Code is sincere, since the sentenced ones serve more than the penalty imposed. For example, for sentences of imprisonment if someone was sentenced to the Old Criminal Code, he should be fired by good conduct to serve one third of his sentence. While with the new Criminal Code, it should be made redundant to serve two fifths of the sentence. Respectively, for life in prison with the Criminal Code it had to serve fifteen years, while under the new Criminal Code for sixteen years. Moreover, the New Democracy as a government has reviewed the new Criminal Code for individual provisions, but it has changed nothing about what is allegedly disturbing it today. All he has rushed to legislate by changing the Criminal Code was to return the frozen accounts of those controlled for money laundering and to grant immunity to bank officials. Mr President, what Members and officials of the New Democracy are saying today is simply showing a micropolitical stress to attack SYRIZA and not to fight to build a democratic wall of isolation of the logic of the Golden Dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u166	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kamine, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is necessary, among other things, to try to understand and why the Golden Dawn arrived to have this resonance it had with the Greek people. We lived this in close proximity to Athens. I would remind you that in the 2009 parliamentary elections, Golden Dawn took less than 0.3% at national level. And yet, a year later in Athens, it was more than 5% and, for the first time, elected a municipal councillor in a municipality then, Nikos Michalliakos. Golden Dawn sat down and studied the national results and saw that in Athens it already had the highest percentage of the 2009 parliamentary elections. Why? Because at that time in Athens there was a high crime, Athens had been hit harder than the whole country since the economic crisis and also, there, all the irregular immigrants were being channelled, who I reminded at that time were squashed by Evros, not by the islands. So that should make us think very seriously about what the causes are. At least one of the reasons I mentioned before, which is the issue of the absence of an immigrant policy in the country, is one of the causes that raised the Golden Dawn. This bill has three sections. I will start from Tuesday, which concerns local government and the centre of gravity in the regulations that we have before us are the responsibilities of the Economic Commission, which now broadens them to such an extent that it finally seals the downgrading of municipal councils by sovereign decision-makers, to a simple club of discussions between local coaches. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a previous tragedy, perfectly predictable, since the SYRIZA government had announced its intention to establish a simple analogue in municipal elections. The system of mere analogous to the emergence of municipal councillors, along with the election of the mayor in two rounds, would end up, as in the end, in an institutional choir, in the creation of a giant - i.e., the mayor - with clay feet, a mayor with strong popular legitimacy that has no majority to implement his programme. SYRIZA kept the undisturbed hope that through the fragmentation of the majority it could create alliances on municipal councils, with the prospect of moving forward in the reconstruction of its dissolved party organizations and thus salivating the centre-left. The only thing that finally succeeded, however, was to give the Government of New Democracy the opportunity to circumvent the municipal councils by invoking the need to govern the municipalities, to create virtual majorities in the economic committees and through them to grant its mayors an absolute and uncontrolled power throughout the country. In most municipalities in the country at the moment, we are ruling, to be honest, accountable to the minorities of the New Democracy. This is a first example of the deterioration of the democratic culture and, in particular, of executive power at the level of local societies, of local government. But the alteration of the culture does not stop in local self-government. It is now being completed in self-government. I'm coming to the second chapter of the bill. We see in the same bill that it is now handed over to the horizons of the government majority and that the administrations of the legal entities of the public. The selection of these administrations shall be assigned to an institution in which the majority of directors are appointed by the Government. The minority participation of members of the AACC and the Legal Council of the State confirms the design of the New Democracy to salt the administrations of legal persons. In other words, we are proposing the genocide of the state of service, but in practice we are building and expanding gradually, but at the same time party enclaves within the public administration. What does all this remind us of us? But, in the period 2004-2009, the infamous "re-establishment of the state" of the New Democracy, which in fact, as we all know, resulted not in a re-establishment, but in a re-establishment of the state. It is precisely the same phenomenon that we are now experiencing in the field of legislation. Because, of the pandemic of aid, we have delivered to the executive authority, namely the government, and a respected part of the legislation through the abuse of legislative acts. Ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a gradual expansion in a state where the principle of separation of powers is increasingly weakened. Even in the recent constitutional review, despite the theoretical unanimity of the parties, we left intact the provision that allows the government to appoint the head of justice. Here, too, responsibility lies primarily with the current government's majority. I'm going through citizenship issues. The field of citizenship offers us a privileged field of reading our history already since the Revolution of 1821. If one notices, one will see that the conditions, both material and procedural, with which the Greek nationality was assigned, recognised or subtracted, correspond to very specific periods of history. In a first period, the Great Idea dominates, where Greek citizenship is given simplely to all those populations, whether homogenous or alien indiscriminately, who choose to remain in the lands which are continually added to the territory of the country. With successive exchanges of populations the indigenous populations, who lived in the lands that until then were part of another territory, as a rule of the Ottoman Empire, have the same religious populations, but even other religions, Greeks in terms of national conscience or even foreigners, who then preferred to remain in Greece. The opposite course begins with the Asia Minor Destroy, because the Great Idea is tragically completing its cycle, and from extroversion and constant care for the integration of homogeneous populations, the Greek state chooses introvertibility and exclusion. The doctrine "Greek you are born", with complete domination of the law of blood. Anyone who can prove that he originates from an ancestor who had Greek nationality can be recognised as a Greek national. So, of course, the Greek state at some times was faced with its contradictions. Let's take an example. It appears one day and requires recognition of its Greek nationality as an immigrant origin in Australia that proves with certificates that his Slavomacedon father was a Greek citizen who left the country during the civil war. What is the Greek state doing then? Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. It fortifies behind silence, legislating that citizenship issues fall under the sovereignty of the state and are therefore excluded from the fundamental provisions which impose deadlines for answering the Greek administration. However, even if there is a negative answer, there is no obligation to state reasons. In short, there could no longer be effective judicial protection in the field of citizenship. The administration remained completely uncontrolled. We are therefore talking about an area of governmental action that is moving outside the sphere of the rule of law. Of course, I do not want to refer to the name, the notorious article 19 of the Code of Nationality, which removed citizenship from foreigners, who only left to go to study elsewhere. This has been abolished by a PASOK government, as has all the innovations to which I am going to refer. In this sad reality, therefore, the government of George Papandreou ended with Law 3838/2010. This is a real revolution in the law of citizenship, not only because it imposed time limits and obligation to state reasons, so it restored the rule of law by making judicial control possible, but also because it also established the right of foreign children born in Greece to acquire Greek citizenship. This is another important reform of this government, a government that has been wronged, slandered and crushed as much as anyone else, and its innovative work can be compared only with that of the Sheite governments. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill, in a way, payes tribute to this reform, because despite all the announcements made by the New Democracy at that time that, in other words, it would restore the old order of things, today has not daring it. It is simply limited to further complicating the lives of the thirty thousand people who wait in line for them to be naturalized, adding further substantial and procedural impediments to a process, in any case complex and slow, to a tortureous adventure for anyone who has the courage to submit to the test called "I will be naturalized Greek". And here is the compromise within the New Democracy party. In contrast to his earlier announcements, the New Democracy Party adopts the great reform of the PASOK, but the issue of concessions to its extremes is also the process of naturalisation by the New Democracy. And why is this retreat? Because it does not dare to touch the core of that reform. And why doesn't he dare? But it's because the nation's common sense of survival is forcing it now. This is why the figures have to be found. For the extra-patriots Turkish-eater, who teach us from the outset that you are only born Greek, I can only say where this national blindness leads us. In 1970 Greece and Turkey had an equivalent population of eight million eight hundred thousand and thirty - five million three hundred thousand, a ratio of almost one to four. The estimates are that in 2050, that is, in only thirty years, this relationship will have reached one to twelve. These are the estimates of Tasos Yannitsis, who is well aware of demographics as insurance experts. Demographic, however, is not just a question of social security. If we look at it in the light of our country's geopolitical data, it is primarily a matter of national survival. So it's good to realize that you're not only born Greek, but you're also becoming Greek. Mr. Mylonakis this morning told us that in thirty, forty years Greeks will be five, six million and so many foreigners with Greek citizenship. I am not commenting on this terminology, foreigners with Greek citizenship, because they are contradictio in terminis. Anyone who has Greek citizenship and Greek education is Greek. But what exactly does Mr Mylonakis propose to us? If we take seriously - and should we do so - the figures I mentioned before, does it propose that in 2050 we have reached such a point of population vanity, so that we can become a new part of the Ottoman Empire? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. Mr Zebplis Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Ypsilante and Mr. Loading will be followed. Here, Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to bring some thoughts about citizenship, as on the issues of self-government, which I am a specialist, I was placed in the draft law in the committee responsible. First of all, I should like to point out that today, within a short distance from the Parliamentary House, in the Athens Court building, a judicial decision is complete, which is important, because it strengthens the universal values, the values which the peoples of the earth have achieved through the centuries. At the same time, it is a right to the martial places that have experienced the atrocity and holocaust, and it is a right to the national struggles of patriots who have been sacrificed for freedom. The city of Halkidiki, which I served as mayor, also respects the fact that it is the birthplace of the great hero Mardecai Fris. Frozis was of Jewish origin and was not accepted by the School of Hope because of its Jewish religion. When, in the Asia Minor Camp, he was captured with fellow fighters in Izmir, several Jews raised a great deal of money to release him. He refused. "What is to be done, it will be done with everyone," he replied. Later, in the Greek-Italian war, this fearless warrior was sacrificed for the homeland. He was the first officer in this war that fell for homeland. And yet, this unselfish patriot against an extreme nationalist approach was not a Greek or, in fact, it was not as Greek as those who meet the criterion of purely organic origin. So, in our country, we saw the praisers of fascism and Nazism - what Frieses fought - as Greek nationalists and expatriates. I am saying this to show that Greek identity and national conscience are not related to the relationship between blood and, above all, to the high ideals of Greek education. More generally, one would say that the debate on citizenship is at the crossroads between sociological, political and legal issues. Historically in Europe, two different policies for naturalisation have been developed. To put it a bit schematically, on the one hand, the loose model of impairment and on the other hand the strictness of social homogeneity. In fact, each nation’s history and tradition determines to a large extent its attitude toward the law of citizenship. However, these issues are dynamic and are evolving and changing according to the prevailing conditions. For example, in our time, it is clear that the major migration flows which put pressure on national societies, as well as the issues of Islamic fundamentalism, international terrorism and national security, shift international public opinion into conservative aspects of migration and naturalisation. In particular in our country, we must not overlook the fact that the number of migrants who have been invaded is inequitable in relation to the country's capacity to absorb both at the level of social integration and at the level of development and social welfare. With this data and at this juncture the legislator comes the current draft law to amend the Code of Nationality and regulate matters of naturalisation. The process of citizenship is known to belong to the hard core of the sovereign rights of the State and the joint legislator. However, judicial review of the constitutionality of the laws also operates in this case as a guarantee of compliance with the Constitution. Thus, the Council of State with its 460/2013 decision annulled the basic core of Law 3838/2010 - because the previous speaker remained until the reform, did not continue with his judicial treatment by the Council of State - on the grounds that maintaining national homogeneity is a constitutional cheque derived from many articles of the Constitution. It goes without saying that if the editorial legislature under Article 1 did not want this interpretation, it would stipulate that powers are not exercised in favour of the nation, but in favour of a single people. Basically, constitutional provisions illustrate an undeniable historical fact that our country has a long tradition of ethnic and religious homogeneity. On the other hand, however, we must realise that compulsory return to their country of all migrants is practically impossible. And an unscrupulous citizenship policy that would make the process of naturalisation virtually impossible and incomplete would result in the ghettoisation of foreigners who are now in our country with painful consequences for social cohesion. It is therefore obvious that the joint legislator must wisely weigh both the international environment and the particular circumstances in the country. Indeed, the regulations proposed by the government are in line with our political history, our legal tradition and the requirements of the Constitution. However, this draft law has been criticised with arguments of diameter rather than completely different ideological origins. In this sense, one might argue that it is a modest piece of legislation that moves in the middle and is referred to by liberal concepts. We should also point out that the procedure chosen is fair, sound, objective, transparent and, above all, rapid. The new institutional framework deals with cases of corruption and customer relations. Because being a formal process is a legitimate thing. What cannot be accepted is the sense of injustice from the test of a vicious and opaque system that reproduces the worst diseases of the Greek public. There is no doubt that a restructuring of the organisational structure of the naturalisation services is needed, as the existing mechanism has stoved and is in the process of examining some fifty thousand requests. However, with these evaluation procedures to be adopted, it is true that some will not succeed. It is important that they do not go into the margin, but rather participate in the European way of life, in an open, pluralist and free society that ensures inclusiveness and exceptions to a peaceful and dignified living. Because the protection of the culture of the majority is essential for social cohesion, the harmonious coexistence of cultures and the acceptance of diversity in colour, language and traditions is equally important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u170	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u171	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. This must be done in order not to give room again as a society to the misanthropic theories of racism and xenophobia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u172	Mr Ypsilantis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, those who lived in the Greek Parliament in the breakthrough and in the face of democratic institutions, freedoms and parliamentaryism by the group that is now unequivocally and by decision of justice, were nothing but a criminal gang that managed to deceive our people and by fascist methods against human dignity and life to make its presence felt. And much more those of us who have reacted to this sad reality but also react to every attempt to break human values and violations of freedom and human dignity today feel justified and relieved. However, in no case is there any reassurance, because the way to cleansing the parasites and unimportant extremities is long and discomfortful. In any case, however, it must be permanently and irrevocably cleared, if we really want to have a real prospect and a true pretext. With regard to the legislation we are examining in plenary session, there has been criticism from the Officerial Representation that despite the legislative improvements brought by the Minister, there are conditions of exclusion of a large number of foreigners with income criteria and non-realistic requirements, especially for the time we are living. It was even claimed that our country should give the tone that it is a liberal state, a state of modern European with open horizons and that it cannot be difficult for naturalisation processes, citizenship processes. The naturalisation processes in no serious state are elastic or inexpensive, on the other hand serious, are also cost-effective. Our state and liberal are and is finally being modernised. The legislation under consideration provides for substantial improvements in the legislative framework for the acquisition of Greek citizenship by introducing provisions that remove uncertainties of the past, while modernising the institutions concerned. An important report on the development of this legislation was the assessment of the risks of corruption and fraud in the functions of a critical public policy area, the naturalisation of aliens and gay foreigners, handed over by the Commander of the National Transparency Authority, Angel Bini, the Interior Minister and the Secretary-General of citizenship. This study is an important part of the Greek public administration, since for the first time there is an integrated exercise to identify and evaluate risks of integrity and to submit targeted proposals to address these threats that jeopardise the transparency and effectiveness of the naturalisation process. The result of the cooperation of this National Transparency Authority with the Ministry of Interior is obviously based on good practice and adopts an innovative approach to the design of public policies on the basis of documented, evidence based policies, with the ultimate aim of selecting the most appropriate reform actions. The oral examinations shall be replaced with a pan-Hellenic type of written examination system open, on the basis of the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, topic bank. The legislative improvements tabled on Friday by the Secretary-General are in a positive direction. And basic innovation is the introduction of written language and knowledge examinations twice a year. With the provisions of the second chapter of the legislation we have today, once again the commitment of this government to upgrading and modernising the state is seen. With a view to transparency and merit and to multi-response to the constitutional equality requirement, a modern framework for the selection of public sector administrations is introduced, which is also in line with established international practices. It is a complement to the government's legislative initiative for the ultimate state. The decoupling, ladies and gentlemen of the government, by the administration through the recognition of key responsibilities to the Directors-General and the Ministerial Secretaries of the Ministries, is complemented by the provision of a worthwhile procedure for selecting the administrations of legal persons governed by public law and private law. This concludes the conditions for the institutional relaunch of public administration, which will help both to establish a new relationship of trust with the citizens and businesses and the economic development of the country. In conclusion, I too would like to welcome the removal of the population limit for island municipalities, the possibility of providing free feeding and housing to doctors, teachers, security officers and other officials, as well as Mr Minister, for the acceptance of the positions of the Greek network of local authorities of CLD/LEADER and the Dodecanese Development Company. With these thoughts, I declare that I am voting in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr Ypsilant, and the consistency in time. Mr. Loading from New Democracy has the floor. Mr. Paulakis will be followed by SYRIZA, Mr. Boutsikakis from New Democracy and Mr. Gikas from New Democracy as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the judiciary, let me begin by saying that violence is condemned wherever it comes from. We in urban democracy have the argument as a fist and not the overall fist as an argument. The essential administration of justice against the criminal and criminal activities of the Golden Dawn confirms our country's deep faith in democracy and gives a definitive end to one of the most traumatic chapters of our political history. Democracy defended itself. Respect for the principle of discrimination of powers is also a fundamental concept of the whole rule of law, but also of democracy. And I hope that the perpetrators and other related crimes, like Marfin, will also be tried. This is the only way that social peace will return from this very noisy era and I would say, very dark. But when we speak only of yesterday and do not learn from mistakes, this unfortunately does not serve tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the draft legislation being passed, I would like to congratulate the Ministry, but also the people who worked to prepare it, because it is a bill that gives solutions to long-term papers which made the entire state machine inoperative. In particular, as regards chapter 1 of the bill and the arrangements for citizenship, amendments are made to the applicable Code of Citizenship, transparency is strengthened, but also the speed of its acquisition processes, the whole process of naturalisation of foreigners is redesigned and any source of corruption is now being eliminated. The second chapter of this draft law establishes a modern, but also a worthwhile system for selecting government administrations in order to ensure that the constitutional principles of equality are respected, as well as of merit, in line with the best international practices. I am, of course, in the sixth chapter, which contains provisions on the development prospects and the proper functioning of the TAs. In particular, the Government considers it appropriate to assist the technical services of the municipalities, which are in difficulty of subsistence. For this reason, Article 30 adds to the work carried out by special consultants, as well as special scientific co-workers of mayors, and the preparation of studies and tenders for both the projects and the services of the municipality. I now come to Article 33, which rightly sets up arrangements for the legal persons of the LAGs, but also for the development agencies. As we have said in committee, following the legislative provision of Law No4674/2020, the Government of New Democracy is continuing the legislative initiative with unrelenting force. So the innovative institution of OTA development solves the problem of subsistence, works in the public interest, co-operates with OTAs and, finally, aims to implement the development policy in local, inter-university and regional as well as a wider area, depending on its statutes. The objective is therefore to develop infrastructure projects overall, but also to implement social cohesion, digital convergence and sustainable development policies. The same mission is now under the law of the TA networks, to which Article 3 of Law No.4674/2020 gives competence. In order to achieve the common development objective, therefore, I asked the Ministry and its leadership to have the same responsibilities, but also the same prerequisites for OTAs and networks. It was necessary to strengthen both types of institutions with the same capabilities, so that the common purpose is not undermined. For example, in the Aegean and also in the Cyclades Prefecture, the network "DAFNI", which supports local self-government of the islands, also strengthens a sustainable model of development in the island area. To date it has numbered over 50 members, of which forty are island municipalities. It therefore contributes to the balanced environmental, economic and social development of the region in order to achieve its development objectives with municipalities and regions. That is why I welcome the extension of the possibilities of staffing these networks to the same extent as the developmental TAA conditions. I also welcome Article 46 which gives the possibility of providing free food and housing to island municipalities with doctors, teachers, security bodies and other employees, in order to work, but also to offer their valuable services to the islands. This provision is extremely correct, as incentives are provided to various workers and island regions with mainly targeted policies to attract young people, but also to ensure the sustainability of those who live on our islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. In particular, the possibility is provided for free feeding and accommodation through local municipalities in order to facilitate their stay at the place of their own service. Once again it turns out in practice that our own government, the New Democracy Government, is standing alongside the islands. In other words, our aim is for the islands to reach a level of economic, logistical, energy, education, medical and cultural competence so that they can enter competitive conditions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are very vigilant and we are making every effort to upgrade the internal procedures and make use of the enormous productive potential of our country and of its people. The Government of the New Republic shall develop policies which facilitate the operation, but also the effectiveness of the TAs and with this draft law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u176	Mr Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA and Mr Boutsikakis and Mr Gikas will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. I will ask for your tolerance in advance, because there are also one or two amendments which have been tabled, and I would like to refer to them. I was in the committee yesterday, and I said that I hope justice will stand up to historical times. He's standing. Yesterday was a day of joy, a day of victory of democracy, which was not able to poison the dissolution of the concentration by the specific 'hotstagens', the remains within the MATs, Mr. Chrysochoidis, who said shameful, shameful lies about how and why the concentration was dispersed. There is video, which shows announcing the decision that characterises the Golden Dawn criminal organization, and in the forty seconds they leave smokers and drops of water on the police side, without any molotovs and nothing. And he dares and the liar, the Minister of Citizen Protection, comes out and says they were six hundred balls and they flew a hundred and fifty molotovs. Can you show them to us, too, or have dreamed about them? He's not poisoned by it. A moment ago, Mr. Ploris came out, which I challenged him to stay. He didn't stay. He might have done better for him. And he talked about history, the former member of the Golden Dawn, who participated in marches and the hanging of the bark cross in the Acropolis in 1996 and in the marches that followed. I repeat: the former member of the golden dawn, Thanasis Ploris, before going to LAOS and before he was translated, Samaras along with Voridis and Georgiadis from LAOS to New Democracy in 2012, will dare to speak about history! It's like pulling your head's hair! Well, listen. Yeah, we're all happy. Some people were less happy though. And they are the ones who say, no matter how much they pretend today, that I prefer my child to become a golden man instead of being a communist. Colleagues, I'm talking about Mr. Georgiadis. They're the ones who said it's an authentic Golden Dawn movement. Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Kamine. They are journalists, who, like Mr. Papademitriou, wanted the "serious Golden Dawn", or some other former journalists and current members of the Greek Parliament, who said they were "solute" the Magda Bridge. I'm talking about Bogdano. Well, listen. History has written and there is no family responsibility, of course, but there is the shameful continuity of crimes by some of today's criminals who are the descendants of some other criminals. Because the story, yes, has written that a member of the German-dressed security battalions was George Michaeliakos, father of Nikos Michaloliakos. The criminal was a member of the SS and a SS enunciator, Mr. Vassilis Zaroulias, the father of Eleni Zarulia, who persecuted wealthy Athenians during the Occupation and asked them for money to be released afterward, so that the Germans could release them. A bracelet with the government of the aprilians was Colonel Ilias Pappas, father of Christos Pappas, who was therefore graduated from the Greek army in 1975. They were criminals, relatives, Xiromeros Demosthenis Barbarousis, the torturer in Merlin Panagiotaros's dungeon, the chief torturer of the Makronissos Lagos. Criminals were also the insurers of the Maniatics of Piraeus Lucas and Dimitris Kashiaris, who, among other things, presented the captain of ELAS and the football player of Olympiacos Nikos Goda, who was executed in 1949. That's to keep an eye on who's in their mouths. We are now going to the other issue, which has become an incomprehensible subject in the morning, after the statements made by Kontonis. Well, listen. You said something here, Mr Levanie, in your position, which was different from Mr Theodorikos, who threw the ball up on the platform. Here we have them - we have together with the amendment we have tabled - the offences which, based on an addition to the electoral law, such as the Inter-Accessional Judicial Reform Committee of the Criminal Code, proposed and voted for many years, after many years of preparation, and said that in crimes, which we are looking for guilt, the issue of the deprivation of civil rights is an incident, which can be described in the legislation as a penalty in the Criminal Code, rather than as a penalty. Here we've got the crimes, we've packed them up, we've done the job. Look at the amendment, it is an addition to the electoral code, and if you think of something else, that you can be completed and you are right, that is, of course, complemented and as a couch for the election, election and election, people who have participated in criminal organisations and have been convicted. I'll say two words about the bill. I have said a lot to the committee. But in support of what I said, Mr Levanne, that you have changed everything that I said to all the agencies, that you have appointed pensioners, parties, such as fathers, to people without a degree, to musicians with a diploma in violincello in the NSR, I said it the day before, retired people, failed MPs, etc., and now you say that we will make a law that will be chosen by the members of the public administration, which you have abolished by your first law, the law that we have created and which we have respected, for example, in hospitals. I heard that Mr. Lulis - you remember Mr. Luli? - the Secretary-General of Tourism, Treasury and the Foundation "Metsotakis" etc., flour-making machine at Volos, who had also written a book that blessed the junta, etc., the one who made him a Secretary-General of Tourism and left because he proved to have no degree. Now, he says, man, I learned, he was appointed as an unpaid convict of Mr. Theocharis to offer, he says, his services - he wants, my child, man, passion to offer - and unpaid to tourism to draw up, he says, tourism programmes. Here, here, this is the recruitment of Luli Konstantinos as an unpaid postman at the private office of the Minister of Tourism. This is the state of the "use" of the best-beings and of the best-beings to pay for exchanges. What will Mr. Lulis do now as unpaid? He couldn't do it as a secretary-general, you brought him there right now to make the dressings. And secondly, for the service, for example, proof of what I said to the committee the other day. They informed me that you made a service for a hundred and thirty hospitals and for all the public sector, which is completely falsified. It's never gonna work. And I told you the day before yesterday in committee that what you will do is in the tactical of Kyriakos Mitsotakis as State Secretary for Administrative Reconstruction, who appointed in October 2014 by interim Heads, this story will continue now to build the mechanism that you want. For example, the day before yesterday, while your law on the service councils is passed, etc., Ms. Bourbudakis, the commander of the 7th Minister of Crete, banned the financial services director of the 7th Ministry of Finance and placed an employee with much less qualified qualifications, indeed much less qualified qualifications. How is that justified? Is this the application of 'purpose-use'? That's what you're gonna do. So what I said the other day, you do, that's what you're doing, and all the rest of the stuff you say is seaweed for silk ribbons, it's bullshit. You're building a hard clientele, thinking you're going to perpetuate your dominance. Nothing will perpetuate, nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u178	Please hang up, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u179	That's the phrase I'm closing. It is so intense that the perfect storm that comes in the next few months, for which you are consciously doing nothing, because you have chosen as government, from the previous social contract of society of 2/3, that is, 2/3, to live tolerable and 1/3 third, to be in pressure and poverty, to go to the society of 8/10 and 9/10, 8/10 or 9/10 in poverty and 1/10 in wealth. You've chosen it, so you don't support the small and medium-sized ones who came out in their name, so you don't support the low economic strata and you've left them in hunger and you say you've given 24 million, while you've given only 4.5 million to support the pandemic, so you don't support the ESS, so you're making such a hard class policy. But it's such a storm that's coming, that's gonna scan whatever effort you're doing this time to build a mechanism that you think will keep you in the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u180	Good. Mr Boutsikakis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u182	What's the staff, Mr. Pleari?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u183	Isn't it personal that he calls me a member of the Golden Dawn?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u184	You said it was a title of honor to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Pleari, listen to me. You are asking for the floor on staff. I didn't deny you that. You have to tell who the staff are. That is what you need to say at the outset to give you the floor to put yourself on this again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u186	The staff are that Mr. Paulakis was lying. He said I was a member of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u187	So you have the floor for a minute, please, to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Paulakis said that I was a member of the Golden Dawn, that I was up in the Acropolis swastika and that I was on my way along with chrysayites. In 1996, Mr. Polakis, at the age of 3, it's when the Imia became. Member of the Golden Dawn I've never been in my life. I've never lifted shit in my life. In 1996, the course you say - and I have already answered 'DOCUMENTO' was the path after the death of people in Imia and they were very involved. I was, too, but it wasn't a course of Golden Dawn. They were participating in goldygetes. Mr. Polakis, the phones that are sending you the messages about what you're going to say, you'll tell them. Now listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u189	I read them before. Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u190	I am the son of Costas Ploris. Kostas Ploris, as you well know, Mr Polakis and a national-socialist fan, is and has written books about national socialism and has written books about Nazism. If I wanted to be a national socialist or nazi, I didn't need a passport from anyone. Our difference is that I was given the opportunity to choose what I wanted to be. And while the easy way for me was his father's way of being recognized throughout the extreme right-wing national socialist space, I have the choice - that my father gave me, he never pushed me into what I'm going to be - to be a right-wing politician. You're lying. You said I've lifted a swastika. Show me a picture of my swastika. You said I was a member of the Golden Dawn. Bring over something I'm referring to as a member of the Golden Dawn. You will show the picture of the 'DOCUMENTO' that Mr Vaxvanis - and I am honoured to say it - as soon as he posted it, he called me, I gave my answer and Mr Vaxevanis has put it in total, which you did not read. So, go back to high school I'm in and say what I was, but I've made my choices. You, your choices are far from the urban space, it's to maintain a counter against it and call Mavroufs in 2020. That's our difference, Mr. Polakis. And your insults are an honor to me. Mr. Polakis - and I close - many have sued you and won your lawsuits. You know that. And Georgiadis won lawsuits with me and your Kourtakis has filed a lawsuit that he's won with me. I'll never have to do anything to you. Because from you, I'm only going to bring in one case: if you speak positively for me. This will be an insult to my honor. As long as you swear me, I think you're insulting them for what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u191	Good. All right, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I too would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u193	On personal grounds, Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u194	Because he calls me a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u195	Let's get a class...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u196	He's calling me a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u197	No, no, I'm sorry, there's not gonna be a ring. There are colleagues who are waiting to speak. You referred to Mr. Plori's face, putting three issues on the table. Strictly on these three issues, for which he himself has been put, you will be mentioned. You either have information on them or if you don't have to be undone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u198	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u199	You have the floor for one minute on these three issues to close the debate and move on to the debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u200	Because Mr. Ploris dares to tell me a liar, there is the video in which, in the course of the Golden Dawn, 50 persons are involved - not thousands - you are going out front - like the cock to say "I am here as well". It was fifty, not fifty thousand! How many members did Golden Dawn have in the 1990s?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u201	Is that how I'm a member? You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u202	You were a member of the Golden Dawn, too. You're the liar you're trying to throw off what you said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u203	Please, let us not forget the names on either side. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u204	There's the video, and if you want me to show it to you here, if you have men, which seems to be coming out in front of this course that's fifty. Secondly, he had no choice. You were a colt and you were half. The other two went first, Voridis and Georgiadis. You went down to the elections with the LAOS that your father hid you from there. Karatzaferis said that "we were tough on the right, but we became less right, so we put the son of Ploris and not the father, so he wouldn't blame us on the Israeli council." Karatzaferis has said that. Or am I lying? You didn't get out of the 2012 elections, and then you stuck in Samaras. Where are you going to tell me that you chose and did pumpkins with the oregano? Thirdly, for your ideas that you say - and it's your honor - you defended your father for this vomit book that he wrote and you dared and you went out and said two things in court and you used to work for them, "We didn't know there was anti-racist law". In the book you had the law, but no one had read your book from the judges. And you also go out and tell them, "But what does my father say? Be open to Auschwitz if he is in the future to reinstate other Jews. Is this a challenge and stimulation that he wants to kill someone'? No, they had them giving flowers to Auschwitz. They didn't make soap! You said that! You know, those crumbs you're finely offended to me. Not to me! Because I know a lot better story than you know and I don't forget that you're from the Guardian's lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like to speak for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u207	Let's close it here, warm request. I won't give the floor to either of you. We will continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u208	For thirty seconds, Mr. President. Mr. Paulakis from "You are a member of the Golden Dawn" here two times, now comes and says "After you're on the way, you're a member". That's the way you're doing it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u209	What were you then?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u210	I wasn't a member. I'm done school, Mr. Polakis. Secondly, I've never been Mr. Froze's lawyer. He has taken Mr. Tsipras too, because Mr. Tsipras has said so too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u211	I meant Maniadakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Polakis, I grew up in a country that yes, Mr. Polakis, disagreeing with my father when he was at a criminal audience I would defend him. If you're getting to the point where you're leaving a son...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u213	In what words did you defend him...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u214	Listen to your morale what it is! You're claiming a son of a lawyer who backed up his father for a criminal act. That's your spirit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u215	No, I call on the lawyer who defends Auschwitz.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u216	I'm pissing off! I'm pissing off!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u217	Good, Mr. Pleari. You've given the explanations. Mr. Butsikaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, we really see a controversy which Mr Polakis has started without substance, because we all know here in this Chamber that a party and a group of Members have done the offences of the Golden Dawn and its members. On one occasion, parliamentarians were the ones who were photographing with them right and left on their way to the remote islands. One party MPs are the ones who voted together and changed the electoral law. It is one of these Members who defended Mrs Thanos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u219	Say what he voted for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u220	Don't shout, please. Don't interrupt. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u221	It is a fact that it did not find a room for trial for two years. Aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u222	What are you talking about? You're in the House. Aren't you ashamed to say fairy tales?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u223	We have Mr. Condonne today to say that Tsipras did so on purpose that the Golden Dawn would fall softly. It's yours. I'll testify to it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christoforos - Emmanuel Boutsikakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's decision on the Golden Dawn is perhaps the most historic moment for the Hellenic Republic and for Greek justice. This decision demonstrates that democratic institutions have the potential to prevent any attempt to undermine them. It closes a circle, a titanic effort launched by the Government of New Democracy in 2013 when the then Minister of Public Order gathered a number of elements about the criminal activity of this nazi structure. It was thanks to these investigations, which were eventually filed with sixty-nine people and then all the Members of the Golden Dawn. This Nazi organization may have worn the political party's cloak may have exploited and defied the Greek people's vote so that it can enter here at the seat of the House, but it has never been able to hide its criminal character. That is why, before the judgment of justice, the wise Greek people extinguished them from the Chambers of Parliament gave their verdict. In the long-term democratic tradition of our country, the phenomena of extreme political violence have always been condemned wherever they came from. We have also seen it in the criminal activities of the left-wing terrorist organisations such as 17 November, ELA and so on. We saw it in Marfin's murders. We saw it in both the Golden Dawn attacks and murders. Democracy has our history, has institutions and has the power to face any threat. It fights and defeats terrorism wherever it comes. Everyone now knows that you were shutting down, as I said before, the eye on Golden Dawn. You have the courage now, with unequivocal hypocrisy, to ask for an amendment to deprive the political rights of those who have been abolished. I'm coming to today's bill. In the process of awarding Greek citizenship, New Democracy received fifty thousand requests for naturalization on hold. There are still requests from 2011 to understand. Large delays mainly in the naturalisation of foreigners. Thousands of demands from foreigners, who were born and studied in Greece as well. The existing system cannot function. Today's bill is another reform section. This is what we are strengthening the General Secretariat of Citizenship. We are recommending new regional addresses, and we are simplifying the procedure for minors. We redesign the process of naturalisation for the rapid and transparent award of Greek citizenship, we exclude those who pose a threat to public order and national security. We replace the interviews with a single system of written pan-Hellenic examinations before the Committees. Candidates will not only be examined in Greek but also in the knowledge of Greek history, geography and the institutions of Greek culture with examinations twice a year. The certificate of adequacy of knowledge will be able to submit the application for naturalisation. Finally, the process will be completed by a few minutes' interview by two members of the service to identify their social and economic integration. We are finally setting up an issue bank which will be electronically accessible to everyone. With these areas, we ensure objectivity, parity, transparency, deal with bureaucracy, reduce costs, speed up and dismantle the services. That is why we are also promoting the digitisation of all procedures. In addition, with today's bill, we are dealing with a number of other issues. We are introducing a valuable system for selecting administrations in the public sector. We are strong in the development perspective of the Ottawas. We are strengthening their rulership. We're settling staff issues. We prolong workers' contracts for the "Help at Home", so that we can give a hundred and twenty thousand fellow citizens the opportunity to continue enjoying the services of the program. In Greece for decades the state was the great patient. The distrust of citizens was justified both in terms of political leadership and in the public administration itself. Today we're changing it. We are creating a new public administration that will work quickly and effectively. A new Greece where the orderly functioning of the state is a prerequisite for prosperity and growth. Because by making the state we make Greece itself. For a better future for all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u224	Next speaker, Mr Gikas Stefanos, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate coincides with this historic decision by Greek justice in which the officials, politically and non-christianly, were convicted of the Golden Dawn as a criminal organization. This historic decision yesterday sends a clear message that in our democracy such practices and behaviours do not have a place. The populists, the extremist elements, fascists, the Nazis have no place, they are isolated and they are a foreign body. Of course, I cannot comment on Mr Polakis' speech a moment ago, who referred to officials of the Greek Police, called them, if I listened well, 'Chrysochoid'. I think that such expressions on this day, in this Chamber, should not be said. They're going through the wrong messages. These executives, if some have made a mistake or taken steps that are not right, of course to be punished. To make the jurors an administrative examination of the procedures of the Greek Police and give them responsibility. But we cannot generally and vaguely characterize these characterisations as members of the Greek Police. I now come to this bill. It is a comprehensive good reform because we all know all these years, how difficult it is to render Greek citizenship and what a hardship it has been for applicants. Phenomena of opacity, corruption, customer relations were phenomena that we often encountered densely. With this new legislative initiative, the Minister for the Interior, the Ministry of Interior, helps significantly in the faster awarding of citizenship, of naturalisation. In a proper way, in an innovative way, of the written examination, it gives a solution to an issue that has been afflicting our country. Thirty thousand pending cases only for interview. Eight thousand cases new each year. Now twice a year, these tests will be given in the form of pan-Hellenic examinations. Because, badly lies, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for anyone to want to acquire Greek citizenship if they do not know the elements of Greek history, if they do not know the geography of the country, elements of culture, but also, of course, knowing the institutions of the culture. I therefore think that this amendment is well under way, which will reduce suffering and improve the citizenship process. Of course, this bill does not only include citizenship. It has many useful and critical provisions for local government agencies to improve procedures for the development of municipalities. In fact, especially for small municipalities, innovative provisions are allowed to improve their technical services and procedures that technical services follow. I live in this, because my constituency consists of four municipalities, three of which are small municipalities and have no potential for technical services. So we now have the opportunity with inter-democratic cooperation to be able to implement programmes that are important. It is also possible for mayors’ partners, who have a degree in this regard, to conduct tendering studies and to proceed with procedures that have been in drawers for a long time. So there is an essential possibility for small towns too to proceed to projects that are important. I also consider Article 46 to be the following: Small municipalities, mountain and island municipalities, to allow uniform staff serving there, to substitute teachers, to auxiliary doctors serving in health centres, hospitals, feeding and housing. This is very important, Mr Minister, and this is a proposal which, please consider - especially small island towns - may not have the economic potential to offer free food and shelter to so many people. Perhaps you can include an extra help especially for the small island municipalities. This financial support is essential. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill reduces bureaucracy. It contains key provisions that improve the functioning of local government bodies. It makes it easier for the island municipalities, as well as the mountainous small towns. And of course, I invite you all to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u226	Now Mrs. Kafantaris Charas comes from SYRIZA, then Mr. Kegeroglou and Mr. Simopoulos. I'm announcing a first triad. Warm request to all keep the seven minute. Come on, Mrs. Kafantari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In fact, we have all spoken - and I shall refer to the historic importance of the court's decision yesterday on the condemnation of the Golden Dawn as a criminal organisation. I shall mention and say that it was clearly a victory for democracy and once again justice stood up to the circumstances. However, what I would like to note, ladies and gentlemen, in the Chamber, is that, from yesterday until today, we have been seeing a competition of statements condemning the Golden Dawn, using too intensely to condemn this political motto. Indeed, what I note is that I see this particularly among those who were interlocutors of the Golden Dawn, even from those who said 'I want a serious Golden Dawn', but also from those who saw Golden Dawn as an authentic movement. On this, I would even say the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis in 2017 in an interview at "POLITIKO" had said: "It is like there is no Golden Dawn. Violence comes exclusively from the Left. These are things that we do not forget. But from now on what must be done." Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Golden Dawn has been condemned, but the Nazis, the racists, the patriots' perceptions and ideas still circulate. This is a struggle that we all have to make, together with society, and I would say, starting from this Chamber, from the Chamber. Don't hear any more patriotous perceptions, racist and xenophobic from here. I now come to the draft law which we are discussing today. In fact, all the months of your government have been unfolding your plan, your vision, gentlemen of the government, for homeland. At first we said that you only wanted to serve some of your friends, friends, etc. Or you're avenger against SYRIZA. But, ultimately, your plan is revealed every day. It's the logic of displaying and unfolding over the well-known face of the Right. It hides behind supposed environmental ideas, development, etc. The state of the right is being established and meditated. Dissolve whatever positive legislation has been passed by SYRIZA. You even took advantage of the pandemic, which is something very serious, in too many areas. Apart from the fact that you are sowing fear to the Greek people, at the same time you are not taking the necessary measures. The teachers, nurses, the doctors you invited us to applaud, today we see that even at their gatherings you beat them. Not to say about yesterday's incident, which took place at the big gathering outside the courthouse, where citizens peacefully protested and expressed their joy at the outcome and we had this inviting attack. Of course, the bill you bring is a "sweep" bill, I would say. Beyond the nationality, where my colleagues from the SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance have been very placed, I will stand on two issues: local government and the functioning of the state, the administration of the public, About twenty-fifths of articles concerning self-government continue to deteriorate regional municipal councils. Economic committees decide on all the main issues and, if they want, they can put these on the regional or municipal councils, which from 1974 to 2019, councils decided to be a matter for committees, had to be discussed in the Council. This is all about violating the European charter of local autonomy and self-government. A number of OTA actions are privatised. There is a delegation to their programme development organisations, a contractor of decision-making powers, which according to the Constitution must be permanent members of local government. It seeks, in other words, to have a parallel body of private law with contractors to the vast majority, who will deal with everything. Gentlemen of the Government, it is good that you withdrew Article 47 for the RES fee for the return to the local compensatory communities. First of all, let us say that it is positive. We hope - and we believe - that you do not bring it back. This is very serious. I shall, however, go to another matter relating to local government and it is about Amendment No 501, which was tabled today and which concerns the PGIs. By the "CLITHENHY" law, there were some arrangements, Law 4555/2018. With the recent law on the final state, with Law 4625/2019 you are making such an amendment. We had then commented on it as procedures, criteria for the number of VOCs. Last year, with FEK on October 30, 2019, you are making a new amendment that you delete a text with retroactive effect from 1 January 2019. And you come today for the third time and you make modifications and add retroactive effect 1 January 2019 for the non-application of a provision of Article 245 concerning a maximum number of VHSDs per region. So you, as a government, constantly undo your self-determination. Legislative. You come back and relegate these and correct what you have already legislated. But where do they refer? Simple logic says they don't serve all our own, those we want to serve, whenever photographically we do some reforms. Mr President, I come to the official office of the State and say that the colonisation attempted by SYRIZA and the Law on the Staff Register was passed, you abolished it by Law 4622/2019. You're the well-known right. You are trying to reinstate the traditional and anachronistic practices of a favorable and customer-friendly character in the service of executive central positions in the public sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President. At this point I would like to say that, in the composition of a five-member selection committee, of the five members are governmental - Secretary-General of the Ministries, President of the ECHR - and there are no relevant experts. Furthermore, this provision on the staffing of the five-member committee is a characteristic of the dominance of the political sub-system towards the administrative body, which is also one of the main dimensions of the pathogenesity of the Greek public administration. I just want to say one more word. You underestimate the National School of Public Administration through the moleculation process in the selection of executives. This is something very serious. Gentlemen of the government, you reveal every day. You reveal the ultimate state of excellence, which shares positions and money to others, privatizes services to citizens, changes institutions, beats rights, puts his people in the public for the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u228	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u229	I shall say, therefore, that we have a government which is constantly self-determination by the legislative process, not by ignorance, but by the aim of implementing interests. And I would also like to say from this step forward that all of this is going to be changed. We're going to get rid of them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's day and the national consensus expressed by the placement of all the political parties, but above all by the Greek people's resentment, the next day came. As is well known, victory is something that everyone claims, while defeat is an orphan. And that's why we watched what we watched this morning with intercategories and stuff. But let us remember the story a little bit. Of course, we must bear in mind that the fight for democracy, the fight against fascism and racism is continuous. It is, of course, about justice, but above all about education policy. In 2001, the Government of PASOK with Minister of Justice, Mr Stavopoulos, introduced the crime of the criminal organization under Article 1 of Law 2928. He said this morning in an interview with the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulus, and I looked into the debate and the minutes. It was interesting. The law was only passed by PASOK and the New Democracy. The JRC voted against. The coalition left, denounced. If the views of the coalition have prevailed since then, it is understood that we would have had a problem and a gap from then on in the criminal organisation. The 2019 amendment of the Criminal Code by SYRIZA undoubtedly - they admit it themselves - removed the opportunity of the court to decide to deprive civil rights. No one denies this regardless of reasons and excuses. So SYRIZA has huge responsibilities. The two of the three Justice Ministers are denouncing Mr. Tsipras for this choice. Only the one who arranged this arrangement, Mr. Kaloger has not denounced him. Of course, it matters, and who was found defending him. I'll tell the end of the story for the defender. But this is not an alibi for you, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You brought amendments to the Criminal Code in 2019 and you could have reinstated the provision. Of course it could not apply to this case of Golden Dawn, but it would have been restored to what SYRIZA did and would have involved all the other cases that might happen. So for the treatment of this void and, in particular, for what justice has lost, the possibility of removing civil rights, the Change Movement was responsiblely and documentedly placed this morning and said that it needed a serious treatment to see how we will do so. And if we're not today, we'll see when we do it. We're ready today. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And we are ready not on the side, but in fact with an amendment that has two provisions and concerns both the faces and the parties. And persons should not have the right to participate in elections by extending the obstacles to Articles 32 and 34 of Presidential Decree 26 of 2012, but also to Articles 34 and 35 for parties and parties combinations. I will read it self-confidence: "Counts, parties combinations or parties coalitions, in which persons are involved, condemned for a felony against the democratic culture or public order, as well as a combination of parties or parties coalitions from the statutes, the declaration of principles, the operation and the action of which are shown to be invasive or threatening the free functioning of the democratic constitution are not declared. This provision concerning its consequences shall apply from the exercise of criminal prosecution against those who have been sentenced and irrespective of the time during which the decision was adopted.’ That means, quite simply, that when the prosecution was carried out, in the time since the prosecution was carried out and then there were elections. And, on the basis of these elections, there is now parliamentary representation, which is not the decision by the convict only the person and he will leave the alternate, but the party as a whole. And we want all parties to be placed here. I have also seen SYRIZA's amendment and there is nothing for the parties. He only says about the faces. This is what I think is another mistake in the context of the 'wrong' that has been committed in the previous period. This morning, Mr. Raguss tried to justify unjustified. What's to justify? Since he had no credibility. He's an unreliable politician. He has denounced many of Mr Tsipras for untrustworthiness, delinquency, imprisonment, raw intervention and strife and much more. I do not want to mention them, but I shall submit them to the Minutes because they are documented by an interview. And I would like to see it distributed to him for him to know what he was saying. [[At this point, the Member of the Movement of Change, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And he comes today to defend something he blamed yesterday. If that's possible! Unreliable people cannot, of course, support unreliable policies or eventually no one else was found to do so. Mr Tsipras must choose if he is with Mr Tsakalotou's serious position yesterday, with today's picture that Mr Ragoussi has shown, or with what Mr Kontonis and Mr Paradafopoulos said. Let's pick and get. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I conclude with an amendment on 'Help to Home Help'. Minister, the amendment is not complete. From the basic law on programming contracts, you know that very well, a programme contract must be concluded so that it can be concluded for a certain period of validity. With the provision you are bringing us, you are not telling us what time the programme is prolonging. It's undetermined. That's wrong. It will not be possible to conclude the contract. It will not be approved by the Court of Auditors. I'm telling you, I'm sure. If you'd like me to present a piece of work for you on these matters. There must be a specific deadline. I have therefore tabled an amendment which I say that the programme contract for the extension of the programme as it works today is up to 31-12-2021. In this period, all workers' contracts other than those which under the ongoing AACC procedure are automatically extended and their contract is settled on the day of appointment. This means that this amendment ensures that the programme will not be in the middle, there will be no gap. Furthermore, those who are not hired by this notice, which may be 20% or 30%, will have the opportunity to use them until 31-12-2021 in order for the programme to be implemented in an uninterrupted manner. If you do not make this extension as I say and end the programming contract, and then you will come to say: 'Ah, I have some workers, who have to put them for a while', you will not be able to do so because the relationship they have had for the last 15 years will have been solved. For 15 years, "Help to Home" has been providing services for the disabled, for the disabled and the chronic sufferers with a specific occupational status and worker. Do not break this chain until the program is completed with the new structure, which is obviously a development and upgrade of the program. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. I was thinking at the time of writing the amendment to mention the name Manolis Skoulakis, who had the idea and the first initiative to create the 'Help at Home' programme, which is so successful it is with workers who are well aware of their work and can support, in particular, in these critical cases, weak people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Efstratios Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in a completely institutional manner with the decision of justice, the Greek state, in full matching the vast majority of the Greek people, has shown that in our country they cannot thrive on phenomena like those of the Golden Dawn. Since yesterday, however, we have been witnessing a very great attempt to communicate this decision mainly on behalf of the Vice-President. They even reached the point today, in an attempt to eliminate their clear responsibilities for what seems to be possible reduced penalties, which will also be inappropriate for the leaders of the Golden Dawn not to have political rights, to submit an amendment, an amendment which has proved not to be in the constitutional context, and I am sure the Greek Government will consider the whole framework within the logic of the current government, a logic that has brought this fact into full democracy, to have started and completed the process of judicial investigation. Today I was pleased to hear the speech of the former President of the House, Mr Voutsi, in his sober manner, actually apologies. He actually made an apology. It reminded me of Socrates' apology. I would call it: According to SYRIZA's apology for the matter of the Golden Dawn, or rather for the way it dealt with the matter of the Golden Dawn Parliament. Word - word apology, sober and practically. I now come to the famous theory of both ends. Again Mr Voutsis spoke and said he condemned the radicalisation of the extreme right. Yes, but he did not say that there is a similar phenomenon from the extreme left. There is. Are you condemning it? The next you will say: 'Yes, we condemn the radicalisation of the extreme left.' This part of this phenomenon has had victims. Say it! You don't say it or say it with halves or some people don't say it at all. Some of you might call it. In all this, there is also a bill that basically meets what we call aristotle impediment. I heard a side of the House saying that he's putting enormous obstacles. I heard another side say that it actually makes the country a clear vineyard in the administration of citizenship. What's the truth? I was convinced by these two different voices that the bill, yes, is in the right direction. Are you talking about dignity? Yeah, it's a step in this bill. The specific article on the administrative boards of public bodies is in the right direction. And what's the problem, Mr. Polakis, is there being an unpaid minister? Are you used to SYRIZA being all middle-aged? Let's come and answer. He's an unpaid counselor. I wish we could have unpaid consultants at the ministries. Did you ever do it? I wish you did. I now come to another matter. On the question of development agencies and on the way in which this bill, like others, enables them to make projects and studies. The Recovery Fund's coming. We have the Antonis Tritsis programme. It'll take municipal studies and they don't have the staff. It therefore makes it easier for the government in a certain way to make local government agencies effectively able to do so in a way outsourcing these services, because we will at a certain point get to the point where there are funds and the municipalities will not have the funds ready. Another very important point, in this bill, is the Cylindus article. You know that there are thousands throughout Greece of schools and, of course, there are also the other canisters managed by the municipalities. So there is a regulation that enables them to pay up to 40% less than they give now, because the pandemic has hit them and the upset which exists in the programme continues to hit them. I propose to the Ministers - of course it is not just about themselves - that the school meal programme should go to the school committees and to school cans. This is not how we will have the huge problem of constant tensions. It is also a matter of other ministries. It's my proposal, which has been in place for a long time. Finally, let us all understand, not even the governments - not the specific ones - that reform is taking place when we slowly reform various points. Visual reforms are good, but often visions remain. This bill on specific issues, which I have raised, is a reformist. That is how many reforms we want, so that we can finally have the big picture and move on to reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos, for keeping time. That's how I want us to go so we can all make it. I will give the floor to the Greek parliamentary representative, Mr Constantine Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, thank you very much. I will be as brief as I can, while respecting colleagues, because it is a long process until night. With regard to the Golden Dawn we talked about it yesterday and this morning. The president said so. I don't want to say anything more, because we made detailed statements. I will make two small comments on the citizenship bill and all that has been heard. One comment is on what Mr Varoufakis said. At some point I am really surprised to hear words of the style "the ones that come and will be naturalized Greeks and we will give them citizenship will be the new Greeks, the new ambassadors of Greece". Mercy! Secondly, Mr Kaminis - I address you because you referred to the Greek Solution and Antonis Mylonakis - you wondered what Mr Mylonakis proposes and it was probably a misunderstanding of what he proposed and said by Mr Mylonakis. We did and do everything, Mr Kamine, not to be in the next few decades, Greece, a minority part of this new Muslim empire.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u236	I'm sorry, Mr. Heta. I would ask that we dismantle the gamble because my colleague is speaking. You wanted to ask a question, but you gathered around the minister and that's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u237	So we do not want to be a minority part of the new Muslim empire that threatens to expand throughout Europe by suppressing Greece first. Yes, Mr. Kamine. Do you know what we're suggesting? To support the Greeks, to keep our children here, to motivate the Greek to give birth. It is not a solution to give citizenship, as we are giving today to new Greeks, such as the new Greeks said by Mr Varoufakis. I don't want to go any further. I want to run and I want to say that we have really seen sad images today. It is a black day for Greece, because the Turks, ladies and gentlemen, today - and the images are already on the Internet - opened the coastal front of Famagusta. And at the same time that the Turks open the coastal front of Famagusta, Mr. Dendias sits at the same table and talks with Mr. Tsavosoglu about the start of talks and says that he was in a good climate. Timering is completely wrong. Today, the Turks drone - and I have pictures that I will present in the Minutes - are really terrible images for Greeks and Greeks - and celebrate with Turkish flags in Famagusta today, now a little while ago. What do we do? We're having a dialogue. These things can't be done. It's sad pictures. It is a shame for the Cypriots who experienced the pain of the uprooting to feel this again today. After forty-six years the Turks are sadly hurting Cyprus again. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the European Union summit four days ago made reference to the United Nations Security Council resolution of 550 which - it says - extending the UN peacekeeping force to Warsaw. Four days later, what's the Turk doing? He's invading the Varchosias. He writes everyone in his old shoes. Four days later, we invade the Varchosias, and unfortunately, we are inferior to the circumstances. We are proposing to stop every individual dialogue now, take tough measures and boycotts on all Turkish products, close borders. What Turkey are we going to talk to? He has invaded Syria, Iraq, Libya, supports and equips ISIS, supports the Muslim status, has invaded Cyprus, invaded the Eastern Mediterranean, threatens Greece, Cyprus, France, Egypt, Armenia, Israel. Are we going to have dialogue and conversation with them? With those who support and are basically behind the attack on Armenia along with Azerbaijan? We have expressed our full support for the Armenians from the first moment. The President spoke openly on this matter. We were the ones who, on our initiative and at the suggestion of our President, overturned the parliamentary procedure in cooperation with Azerbaijan. Today, we are once again calling for and we have tabled a motion for a resolution from the House of Parliament expressing the support and solidarity of the Greek people to the Brother Armenian people. And since we are in this climate, I would like, Mr President, to pass it on to the Bureau, and I would like to inform the House that on Tuesday, October 13th - we are telling you now to withdraw it - a memorandum is being ratified in the field of sport with Qatar. To withdraw now, because Qatar is an enemy, as did the ratification of the Azerbaijan agreement. It has to be done now. Turkey and Qatar have become brothers and sisters, they go to joint ventures for illegal financing, they support fanatical Islam. Turkey placed three thousand land troops at its base in Qatar and we're going to make a deal with them? Qatar has committed - and I am closing with this for Qatar - to invest billions of dollars in Turkish banks, while Turkey's national currency is falling apart, and it gives a pillow to the Turks. There is no reason to proceed with this ratification. Mr President, I would like to ask the House very much, and all of us, to convey it to the President, too, to withdraw it. On Tuesday, this agreement must not come for ratification. Mr Theodorikos, Mr Lebanon, I would like to speak for a moment, Mr President. You're gonna tell me this might not be a discussion today. It is, however, a very important issue and I would like to take this into account. I will speak of my personal experience, of my own sensitivities, on the occasion of events that have seen the light of publicity in the last 24 hours. And these sensations are likely to have too many in here, as is our President very friendly. I shall therefore refer to these animals that are abused of animals and killing animals. Mr President, the abuse and killing of animals is a phenomenon that is continuing and now taking uncontrolled form. That's not good enough. He has to be stricter. When one commits acts concerning the physical integrity of a living creature, a living creature that strikes his heart, at least this man is a evildoer, not to say he is a cannibal. There's a lot of complaints. I think you're also taking such complaints and we're working all the time on existing law. That's not good enough. As easily as possible, Ministers, a beast abuses an animal or kills an animal, it takes away its life, it can do so against people. They're cannibals, they're not human. So we are asking, today that you are both here to tighten up the law, to become a felony, but at the same time to help everyone involved in the huge and sensitive issue of stray animals. To put a line in the municipalities, control the municipalities, but that the money that the state gives them for sterilization, give them for vaccination, give them food, and do not do anything else. There must be a strict framework, because this country must finally be civilised at this level too. Please, I appeal on the occasion of the cannibal of the previous event to tighten up the law and see it very seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Heta. You're absolutely right. On the last issue, most municipalities do not apply the law, Mr Theodorikos. And we're going from Thessaloniki to Fthiotida. Mr Themistoklis Himaras has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was the second response of democracy to fascism. The second one, because the first answer was last July, the Greek people' s deafening response to this motif, these fascists. With today's bill, the government updates the Code of Greek citizenship. Through innovative processes, it introduces democracy and speed into another area of public life. In particular, the first chapter of the draft law establishes the examination procedures for the performance of citizenship. Questions: Was there a framework for the provision of Greek citizenship? There was. Was the delays in the naturalization committees too long? Yeah, so there are delays between three and six years...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u240	Please, Mr. Pafile! When you talk, you fix. My colleague's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u241	Always make this point to your own people!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u242	Please, I always do when I'm in the Chair, I always do. So, the gauze, it's over! Let my colleague speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u243	Were the interviewees being dealt with with with some subjectivity in the interview committees? Yeah. There were cases of foreigners who paid the EUR 550 paradox, although in the interview they did not convince that they had the required knowledge and, of course, were rejected. It was therefore imperative that the system should be reformed, that it should become transparent, objective and effective more quickly. That is exactly the reform we are introducing today. The bill abolishes the naturalization committees, establishes all-Greek-type tests twice a year, so that foreigners can obtain the Civilization Knowledge Certificate. It reduces the administrative burden of services. All this introduces a new, modern and fair administrative culture in public. I come to the provisions of the public sector and self-government funds aimed at their fastest and most efficient functions. We all know that the Ottawas have been responsible for disproportionate obligations, without having the staff required and the relevant know-how. Thus, following a series of legislation for a well-ordered and final state, the Government of New Democracy is now completing a few more loopholes in legislation. Benefitful and useful provisions regulating economic and administrative issues of multiple ATTs are introduced. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that our country, following a tough negotiation with the European Commission, has the possibility of using European funding that exceeds EUR 70 billion. In a few months' time the new programming period begins, the NRP of the period 2021-2027, structured in sectoral and regional programmes. Additional resources of more than EUR 30 billion from the Recovery Fund will be available from the beginning of 2021. Undoubtedly, self-government has a leading role in the exploitation and absorption of European resources. The Ministry of Interior has long been listening to the problems identified in the OTAs, focusing on strengthening the management capacity of self-government. As a former self-government I have lived in my mind what it means to drown an ambitious work within the sea of bureaucracy. I am first aware of the enormous delays that have occurred over time in the use of European funds. I know, of course, firsthand and the terminology used, the alchemys applied over time in relation to the fictitious uptake of European funds, the stress of the managing authorities to present even a fictitiously high absorption rate, the transfer of projects implemented with national resources to the co-financed section of the Public Investment Programme, so that we can be consistent with the Community. Calls for proposals are issued from the measures of sectoral and regional operational programmes, through which final beneficiaries are invited to submit proposals for inclusion, and most - in many cases - the results are poor, particularly with regard to small Ottawas, which are subordinated and do not have the potential to mature - and to be honest - and also to carry out large-scale co-financed projects. They do not have the resources, nor do they entrust the preparation of studies to third parties, so that they are unable to make use of the available financial instruments. This is a timeless picture. That is the question I raise, Minister, from day one to day to all the co-legislative ministers. And thankfully it seems that your Ministry, you, have seen it from the very beginning and you are adopting specific policies to deal with it. It is worth mentioning, ladies and gentlemen, the significant support that the Ministry of Interior has guaranteed since last July through the Hellenic Society of Local Development and Government. More than two thousand private engineers will be involved in the preparation of studies and the development of projects of municipalities and regions. This is a policy that makes a decisive contribution to balanced development and therefore to the social cohesion of the country. It contributes, because it enables even the smallest municipalities to exploit the resources of the NRP to implement significant development projects. In the same direction, the Ministry of Interior today, through the provisions of Article 30, allows special scientific associates of OTAs to draw up studies and competition issues. Article 32 gives the same opportunity to develop the TBRs in order to complete tenders quickly and to comply with projects. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the unprecedented social and economic challenges created by pandemic, we must at last learn to prepare ourselves properly and in good time. We can make this crisis a golden opportunity for real development, provided we make rapid use of all available financial instruments. The first bet, which was demanding more European funds for the next period, the government and Mr Mitsotakis personally won it. The second bet, which these resources are to transform the country's productive model, is in front of us. I invite you all to work together to win this, because that is what society really needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Himara. Question to the Members of Parliament: Should we take the time in five minutes - go to seven - why are we in the nineteenth speaker and 50 have been written?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u245	Do not start with me, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u246	No, I will not start from you, do not worry - you will speak six minutes - I will start from the next one, because the Minister has not yet spoken, not enough Members have spoken. Do we agree, Mr. Kamine?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u247	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u248	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u249	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much. Because I gave my word to Mr Santorinios, from the next speaker who is Dimitris Kouvelas. Now he's gonna tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u251	Do it from the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u252	There you go. And so that we don't have the phenomenon of becoming bad, the mask doesn't help us, and you talk loudly, so the one speaking from Stepma is bothered. The Minister is forced to answer what you're going to ask. Here, Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was really yesterday's historic day for democracy. Greek justice stood at the height of the circumstances, worked as one of the pillars of democracy and showed this truth that we all saw, that this neo-nazi motto dressed the political party's lion to have the privileges of the political party, but it was a criminal organization that must be punished. We're talking about this truth that some people didn't see, some who wanted a Golden Dawn more seriously, to participate in a governmental formation, some who felt compassion for Rupadia, some who considered it an authentic movement. That's what we heard! That's how the Golden Dawn was unleashed. Even today we hear theories that rinse on Golden Dawn, washing out neonaziism, such as the unscrupulous theory of both ends. I heard before Mr. Simopoulos. But we're talking about nazis, we're talking about criminals, we're talking about killers. No netting can be done and we can hear these unscrupulous theories of both ends. Of course, we also heard the Prime Minister at 'POLITICO', where he had interviewed and said that there is no violence from the Golden Dawn, mainly violence comes from the far side. That's what Mr. Mitsotakis told us then. Now what does he have to say? Steady proclamations. Of course, we hear the other, that Golden Dawn was in the squares of the "indignant". The Golden Dawn was never found in the squares of the "indignant". Stop rinsing them. The squares of the "indignant" were squares that were against the memoranda, against specific policies and did not feature in violence. And that's exactly why, as Cassidy himself said, he didn't go to them because they were struggling with the system. So stop lying! But they were there making troubles next to you in the Prespes protests. And there she was with you and you were taking pictures together. And these pictures you can't hide. And since we are talking about lies, let this Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, stop justifies everything. Let's tell the truth, let's say the police attack was unprovoked and it's been done for forty seconds since the result was announced. If there really were a hundred and fifty molotovs, the websites and channels you have fed with the Petsa list, they would have no topic today from the photos and videos of these attacks. There's not one! Stop lying and tell the truth! Say you wanted to dismantle this party of democracy. I don't know why, but you did. As for what is being heard about the old and new Criminal Code, I would like to remind you that yes, the old Criminal Code may have been longer, twenty years, and now it is fifteen. But the reality is that the penalties were nominal. Today, however, there is more time for someone to perform imprisonment in order to be released. So the time left inside the prison is the same, perhaps more on the basis of the new Criminal Code. As for the deprivation of civil rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u254	So, you're telling us how long they're staying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u255	I don't know, the court will decide. Well, the sentence was one-third, and now it's two-five. So the time has increased, Mr Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u256	Don't have a dialogue, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Santorinier, let's go a little bit to the bill, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Buga, look at it, please! As regards the deprivation of civil rights - to go to both the bill and the amendment we tabled - it was a decision of the Special Legislative Committee. The Special Legislative Committee considered that the matter was obsolete and that the courts should not deal with it, that it should be self-evident that the deprivation of civil rights, the election and the election should be justified and that this should be in the special electoral law. That is exactly what we are telling you in the amendment that we have brought forward. The deprivation of civil rights would have been for ten years, while the amendment we are bringing is forever. Vote it, then! Make the corrections, but vote for it! Today we all have the opportunity to give a signal to the Greek society that they will never again have the possibility of 'election' and 'elected'. So, to pass through the bill, I would like to say that it is obvious that you do not want to make it easier, you do not want to speed up the performance of citizenship, but to limit the ability of citizenship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. And this amendment that you have made, Minister, I think it is even worse, because by Ministerial decision it will be decided how much the minimum income the person who asks for citizenship will have to show us so that he has the right to take it. And if another Minister comes in - I'm not saying you - and ask for 100,000 euros, then what will we give, Golden Visa? I don't understand. It's completely vague what you're doing. However, what I wanted to say above all is that you have a huge allergy towards the election result and the compositions of regional and municipal councils. It doesn't explain any other way. You have effectively abolished both municipal and regional councils, made them advisory bodies and transferred everything to the Economic Committee and the Quality of Life. Stop this curse at last, stop dismantling the municipal and regional councils. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] With regard to the staffing of the municipalities and the fact that you are entrusting special partners or the development agencies of the OTAs with the opportunity to draw up and consider studies, I would like to tell you that the drafting and visa of studies is a very serious issue that can only be implemented by someone who is a permanent employee and has taken an oath during his recruitment. Anyone can't manage public money and do public money management studies. There is obviously a problem with the staff of the municipalities and regions. But stop and help municipalities and regions get more staff. Stop turning the development agencies into parallel private administration agencies. And I come to something last, and I close with that, Mr President. After the law on the final state abolished the register of executives we had legislated, after you filled the state and public bodies with "blue" children, after you hired three thousand posters - record number! - in public administration - and inviting us - you come today to configure the landscape for the next positions, not for the "blue" children you have appointed - these are all well-burned - but in order that no mistake can be made and you cannot help anyone. So you put the interview that counts the same as the formal qualifications in a committee that three fifths of its members define.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u258	Please, please, Mr. Santorinier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u259	Also, in order to avoid a mistake again, do you have little qualifications, such as the five-year pre-service without specifying where, the very good knowledge of a foreign language - really, where did your excellency go? - and the A.I.I.A. or T.I. without a postgraduate degree. Really, so low qualifications are those "blue" kids you want to appoint? Is that where you've arrived? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, too. Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas has the floor from Thessaloniki. Since I got up to the descent, three Thessalonians have spoken! Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, guilty of hatred, violence, intolerance, as they are accused of, without any lightening, Greek justice a year after the verdict of Greek citizens in the polls. Today's draft law lays the foundations for a more objective system for obtaining Greek citizenship for those who naturally want it. Because there has been a lot of discussion on this, good legislature means that the Minister should convene constructively with the opposition parties during the debate on the bills, but above all have the political courage to accept their comments, where this is useful and crucial. This has been done by the head of the Ministry of Interior and by this bill, and you deserve congratulations, Minister, for that. So today we are setting the rules that make the process of naturalisation more objective, more equitable. And because I have heard it said several times in this Chamber that you are born, you are not, you will allow me to say that what ultimately matters is to be Greek, that is to prove in practice your love for our country and not for words or only for reasons of economic interest. The Greek society cannot tolerate experimentation with the citizens who wish to join it and with a word to be considered Greek. We must therefore organize better strong rules of naturalization, which will not threaten the social cohesion of our country, but will incorporate people who have real knowledge and love for Greek culture, pride when they are called Greek and awe for the customs of our country, Greece. It is therefore not a simple procedure, and that is why we must be extremely careful and what we are saying and what we are voting on. You said to SYRIZA colleagues in the committee - and I read from the official minutes of the House - "On our own government, on the government of SYRIZA, a law was created, a modern law, which came to deal with the part of citizenship in a spirit of liberalism and humanism". How amazing for one more time! We know your great ideological buttock on many issues in recent years, but that you have also been liberal, that I confess that I did not know and, of course, I would not believe it if I hadn't heard it with my own ears. You also say that your law has put order on this issue, which you have seen humanitarian matters and made progress and all these important things that you are accustomed to us. What class are you talking about, colleagues? We received over fifty thousand requests in an examination procedure. The administrative structure that deals with them was relatively small and about thirty thousand were the applications they expected to interview. What are you talking about when the unfinished requests have been in drawers for at least five years? What kind of humanism are you talking about? Are the tails to decentralised administrative services? Is it the people who are afflicted with cold or heat outside the buildings? At least as a lawyer, I have this experience from Thessaloniki and the relevant agency. Are you talking about humanity of suffering, as the naturalisation process can last for up to six years? It is characteristic that there are currently some twenty thousand requests for naturalization of foreigners who were born in Greece and who have studied in our educational system. They, although they are exempted from the interview stage due to the high integration they already have in our society and their certified knowledge, are still pending. With the establishment of the two new thematic regional addresses in Athens and Thessaloniki, the long-term problem of these delays is resolved. It is the Government of the New Democracy that gives a solution to this question, and the previous government has remained in the talk. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, respecting the newest time limit...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u262	Keep going, Mr. Kouvela.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u263	...I'll talk about the prerequisites very quickly. I do not think one of us disagrees that they should be sufficiently aware of the Greek language, Greek culture, geography, the way in which the Greek culture and our institutions operate and be able to participate actively in the political life of our country, respecting the principles and institutions that govern it. That's self-evident. They must, of course, have been properly integrated into Greece's economic and social life. I think there's no disagreement. Nor should there be any disagreement on another extremely critical issue, in my view, namely that suspects may not pose a risk to our public order and national security, especially at a time of critical geopolitical developments in the region, not to enter a very powerful microscope. So there must be transparency, speed, objectivity, such as the examinations that will be given with the type of pan-Hellenic examinations twice a year and with the topic bank. All this modernises the system and makes it more transparent. The financial self-sufficiency of local government bodies and their financial independence are also strengthened by this draft law. Of course, the "Antonis Tritsis" financial instrument comes to give a breath of hundreds of millions of euros for the coming years to the local government agencies. Finally, it is worth mentioning the retrospective extension of workers' contracts to the 'House Help' programme. It is about a hundred and twenty thousand workers in a very critical area of Greek society. The services they have provided in recent years are very important, and until the end of the year they continue to provide them, thus breathing to reflection and municipal authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on a bill which comes to do the self-evident thing both in the system of physicalization and in the other issues that are introduced. It comes to give transparency, parity, merit and, above all, speed. This is what Greek citizens are constantly asking for. They're judging us already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Couvela. Mr. Ioannis Mousalas is called in Stepma by SYRIZA and the B3' South Athens Sector. Here, Mr Muzala, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that Turkey's aggressive move in Cyprus in Varhosia. It must not escape our attention. It is a very important issue. It involves both Cypriots and us in new problems. We in the SYRIZA confirm the enormous effort we have made to convince you - in vain - to take measures from the European Union for sanctions. You didn't. The way you put our issues raises doubts about how to claim them. We'll see and we'll be judged and you along the way. Yesterday a court ruling was made, which is a recognition of the common feeling of law with the rule of law. Institutions and the common sense of law agreed that Golden Dawn is a criminal organization. They're Nazis, they're fascists. That's what all the parties of the democratic arch found together. There is, of course, a huge effort on the part of the New Democracy to help us forget that for too long, for too many years, it has been silent in front of the Nazi movements and actions of the Golden Dawn. Mr. Samaras gave the signal on Golden Dawn to recapture the cities and start crimes. There was an attempt to help to forget that dozens of crimes were committed, but also murders, before Physsa was murdered and that the New Democracy was found with sixty two procedural documents in the Minister's drawer and was silent. Few of the New Democracy actively resisted this, and unfortunately there were a lot of them - there is no point, nor do I have time to mention - which have undermined the moves of the New Democracy. You're lying, gentlemen. You lie in a way that scares and makes no sense. Do you know at one time I hear something and I say 'were you not ashamed?' It's clear. You're not ashamed. You have an opinion. You lie and then you pick up the lies through a press, who's probably succumbing to the measures you've taken and transmit control of what you want to transmit. I shall refer to three lies. First of all, I note that historically all the extreme right-wing, fascist, Nazi gangs emerged through the right-wing party and were re-hidden within the right-wing party, from Venizelos yet. I'm not saying the right party is Nazi. I'm not saying the right party sells our country. I'm saying that within the right-hand side these moves go in, hide, come out, make their crime and go back in. And at this stage we are now. You are lying that the loss of civil rights was something that SYRIZA voted for along with the Golden Dawn. It was a code, worked ten years, unanimously accepted the judicial associations, prosecutor associations, legal associations throughout the country, universities throughout the country and was voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u266	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u267	You won't have time for the bill. That's why I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u268	There was a gap in civil rights through this. We have brought a proposal with Mr Ragosi. I think it was a very positive move, and I think this can be married to the tweet that Mr Kastanides has done, which reveals our own truth - in his honesty one deserves to mention - but also what Mr Lebanese said. There could be an organised response from the House so that this disadvantage can be dealt with. That's where we'll see if you want to be burned or if you just want to see who exposes who. Dissolve the course. We had an excellent court ruling and we had a grand anti-fascist course. You lied again. In forty seconds, you've dismantled the course. Whatever you say, whatever you do, the videos exist and there are two questions against which, through Mr Chrysochide, your government and the Prime Minister are accountable: either the police rebelled or there was a political mandate - Mr Chrysochide is their political leader - to do this. Solve it which one it was. But give an answer. In forty seconds this has happened. We're coming to the bill. I'll only talk about citizenship. Citizenship is an institution established by the American Revolution, their constitution begins with the words "we, the people", "we, the people", and the word "citizen" and "culturalisation" in the French Revolution and has continued since then. It reflects the history of each state how it is used and the process of forming the state. Mr Kamines has given an excellent analysis - not to mention this - of how this has evolved in the Greek state. We always have all political forces, all political events pressing on citizenship either way. But we have their exceptions too. I must say that in 1978, in a very difficult climate, the New Democracy passed promotional and exceptional provisions, unlike a very large proportion of the party itself and unlike the relevant ministries. In 2010, the PASOK passed amendments concerning children and which were extremely positive amendments. And then there were very strong reactions, mostly from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u269	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u270	In 2015, SYRIZA extended these things and I want to remind you that there were reactions from ANELs within our own government block. Citizenship therefore goes ahead and every time it has its exceptions. The bill you bring is a reactionary bill, it is a bill that goes behind the laws on citizenship from now on: Make it deliberately in my view - not only you, but also colleagues from other parties and from my party - a mistake between rigour and eternity. Being a state strict in the conditions under which citizenship is granted is legitimate, although my view is in favour of leniency, because through citizenship in modern society a state benefits, it gives rights, but it also gives tens of thousands of people a commitment. The problem with your bill is not rigour. It is a lack of transparency, a lack of rule of law, a lack of rules. You put systems, you move away from the French and German model, which has started the PASOK to bring them into our country - we have also done a great deal of work and have helped - and you are moving away from this model and making it a prey to the administration, to the political opinion and to the political system, without the rules being clear and those who are clear are rules that help not because of rigour, but because of the lack of transparency in the administration of citizenship.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u271	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u272	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u273	You told me twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u274	I'll tell him one more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u275	Don't tell me another one. Please don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u276	I'm done. So intensify opacity, intensify ambiguity, take subjective and political criteria which are far from legal, abstain from the rule of law, and that is what you are trying to handle citizenship in a way that you are subjectively judging. In Europe, however, this is not the case in the rule of law. At the same time you have subscribed the mechanism. We found him undersubscribed. We handed him over to you. That's true. But you're lying. It was said before 'We found 30,000 applications'. Prior to this colleague who said this, another colleague of yours said that 30,000 applications have been pending since 2011. They don't need to lie. It's a very serious matter. We can only vote against it, not because it is strict, but because it is unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr Muzala. I'll say it one more time and I'll be a nigger. You don't punish me by stealing five more minutes or anything. Most speakers towards the end are SYRIZA, and it is a shame not to speak. Also, punish all those people who are out of the Chamber and support the cops, the canteens, the restaurant. Think about it. You're very capable and you can say it in five minutes. I accept that there is timeliness, I accept the Member speaking. The world cannot be burned out and the Member cannot say a word here. But you have devoted five minutes to the news. Say what you want, say about the bill. It's easy, it's easy. Mr George Amanatidis has the floor from Kozani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too welcome my voice and my voice with everyone's voices for the decision of the court that characterises the Golden Dawn terrorist organization, with systemic action against democracy, society and internal security of the country. Today's draft law is an important draft law for which I will analyse the issues that I know to a large extent. I'll just say he has three pillars. The first relates to Greek citizenship, where fixed issues are solved which have caused delays and are applied innovative procedures for the performance of citizenship for the implementation with the second pillar of the aptitude system of choice in the administrations of the public sector institutions, and this cannot be called into question by anyone. I shall mention - and I shall then develop it - nr.4674. This law strengthens the development perspective of LAGs with innovative provisions on development agencies, where issues are regulated for their economic and administrative function, recast certain legal provisions, but also issues relating to the economic committees of the municipalities and regions. I am opposed, as I have said, to previous issues, and I am starting with Article 30, with an opportunity for advisors and experts and scientific associates of the mayors, in addition to the services they provide, which are necessary, because as far as time goes, the issues are becoming more complex and require an interdisciplinary approach, so the contribution of these special partners, in addition to their classic services, is very important, since it is also reflected in the preparation of studies and tenders for tenders. Article 31 increases the powers of the Economic Commission of the municipalities and regions. I repeat here for those who did not notice that the powers of the Economic Commission of the municipalities are exclusive. Why? Because it is extremely necessary for the municipalities to be given speed in taking decisions, because on many issues, with more time-consuming issues of flood disasters, it was necessary - and we have seen it - to make rapid decisions. Of course - and this has not been said by those who condemned this regulation - the possibility of transferring powers from the Economic Commission to the City Council whenever the Economic Commission deems it appropriate, i.e. on important issues and vice versa there is a possibility of transferring new powers from the City Council to the Economic Committee. So where is the issue? I, ladies and gentlemen, imagine the municipal and regional councils as an instrument to discuss the issues of the municipality's or regional perspective, envisioning the region, setting targets, trying to find investment outlets and not to approve the conditions for the implementation of a project that is explicitly provided for in legislation. This is the essential role of local government and the bodies with which it is commanded rather than save and well if some of the responsibilities are transferred to the Economic Committee, as I said earlier. Article 32 regulates the issues of the development of projects and the acceleration of the absorption of resources. All mechanisms are the means to achieve the goal. Where the aim is to promote regional and local development, it is only natural that the means to be used should serve this objective. Therefore, development agencies can draw up studies to help local government in its development work, because local government is now a producer of development rather than a mere manager of everyday issues. With Article 33 and with the new addition of the collective expressions of society, the economy, culture and the environment, corporate Plenary Assembly is being improved, that is to say, the institutions that exist in a region, because development issues are not just infrastructural issues, but they are therefore all issues of sustainability and that is why all those shareholders have an important role and we should capture it. In any case, as shown in the amending addition made, there is the veto limit. These bodies cannot exceed 3%, so it makes sense that they cannot influence the fates of this body and are therefore in line with the directives. In closing - because I have no time - I will say that the payroll arrangements in schools are very important. Very important is also the latest legislative regulation for a 40% reduction in fees in the canteens of primary schools and high schools. I shall say, however, here, on the basis of what the Secretary-General has said, but also what we have said in our debate, that what I understood is that the 40% figure is additional to the 40% already voted on by Article 1 of Law 4683, as is the case with Article 4 of Law 4690. Therefore, in order to avoid misunderstandings, I propose, after the expression of 40%, as finalised by the legislative arrangement, that this be added to the already reduced 40% rent, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 1 of Law 4683. My second proposal concerns something that is well formulated, but it could be even better formulated. What? The fact that contractors in development agencies or in municipality networks can now also carry out a free profession in the market. Why is that? Because - firstly - through this improve their capacity, which will be reflected in the assistance of the development agency or the municipality network, and - secondly - it will not be possible to support a contract lease of work that its relationship with the development agency was a dependency relationship, so it will not be able to connect its existence to a relationship that was so close that it could claim to join the company's normal organisational plan. I conclude by saying that of course I am voting in favour of this draft law and I call on many sides of Parliament, from which different opinions have been heard, but not many times haunted, to do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country, society, the government, the political system, we are all going to a very difficult time between the unprecedented threat and the crisis of the coronary pandemic and significant developments in the Eastern Mediterranean. The effects of both these components are decisive, very large and the challenges continue. It is our duty to do all we can with the greatest possible unity and a solid and essential strategy. In such a difficult and peculiar landscape, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is moving on its own organized project and is implementing important reforms, self-evident reforms representing the majority of citizens, the majority of measure and logic, overcoming traditional separatist lines that have kept the country behind for a long time. This is the necessity for both the country and the citizens, and we have no right to stay back. The more consensual these reforms are made - and this concerns all of us - the better for the country. We must therefore be united. Yesterday's day was a democratic celebration and unity of the Greeks with the condemnation of the Golden Dawn by independent Greek justice. It is all our responsibility that this day should not be a parentheses, especially because we are in such a difficult political period. Finally, what matters - to stay a little longer - is the Greek people themselves firmly and permanently leave to the margins of those who represent fascist, Nazi, extremes. That is the important thing and the decisive one. Of course, today there has been a debate on the part of the Officerial Response which I would like to call a significant paradoxical. I understand that your colleague, Mr Kontonis, has put you in a difficult position with his statements. I would say that the more SYRIZA accuses the New Democracy of relations with Golden Dawn or the more you obviously put forward unconstitutional proposals the more, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, you are confirming the unreliability that the party that is today in the Anti-Secretary. So I think you should think about it again. There's the next day, and not all of them are played in the impressions of half a minute. The next day - I repeat - requires serious reforms and requires that, beyond the presence of the government, with an organised reform plan, which is in existence and implemented, there also requires that anti-Civilisation, in particular, should take place, which in a credible way will also choose to take part in its own positive way in the implementation of this process. The Ministry of Interior is taking the lead in implementing important reforms. Today's law comes following major changes, modalities and reforms that we have done in the past 15 months, the vote of Greeks abroad, the implementation of changes in the cybernicality of self-government, the creation and safeguarding of the development programme of "Antonis Tritsis", with secured resources of 2,5 billion euros, signed on 19 March by the Minister of Interior and the President of the Ministry of Interior, the contribution of the Ministry of Interior, through the State Registry, the digitisation of the state, the implementation of a large digital reform in the Coronovirus period, the strengthening of the social institutions of self-government, with particular high and high priority the 'Helps at Home" programme, which - I am sure we have fully ensured from an economic point of view, but also from the point of view of workers with the legislative intervention that we are doing today. And, of course, I consider it of particular value the top rules on undeclared squares, which solved a long-term pending gap between millions of households, changing a relationship of guilt, which has existed so far, in a relationship of trust between the citizens and the state. And, of course, in front of us, we very soon have the modernisation and upgrading of the IASC, the implementation of sovereignty, multi-level governance, the strengthening of self-government and the clearing of its responsibilities and, of course, the new Code of Government, which will simplify things and further modernise the image of local government. Our aim is to create a public sector that operates by exploiting every potential that new technologies give, but also the skills of human resources. One is the main objective: better, faster, more objective and fairer service for citizens. We want the Greek state to be modern, European, productive, non-corruption and clientele relations, support rather than trekking on any healthy private initiative and entrepreneurship. A state that has a sincere and sensitive attitude toward the citizen, strengthening the relationship of trust with society and a strong local government, an autonomous pillar of development and social cohesion. In this context, the important reform that the Greek Parliament will be voting on today relates to the process of naturalisation. The process of naturalisation, internationally, is a sovereign prerogative of a state. It is therefore important for our country to convey the image of a modern, householded democratic state in this field. The reimbursement of these rights must be done in terms of transparency, objectivity, universality and validity. Ladies and gentlemen, naturalisation concerns three categories. First, the Greek expatriates, for whom this government and this ministry since last March has established the section of expatriates in the General Secretariat of Citizenship, that is, what had been abolished over SYRIZA, to speed up the process of the relatives. Afterwards, they are the children of immigrants who were born in our country and have studied in our educational system, all of them, that is, who feel our country as their country and long to become Greek citizens. For them, in this bill, this government and this Ministry of Interior provide for the creation of two new addresses in Attica and Macedonia to deal with these cases much faster, in a direct and effective way. In Parliament, but also in everyday life there have been too many cases that have been called upon to deal with huge delays in the process of naturalisation, as well as issues of corruption. Since the first time we took responsibility for this ministry, the scale of the problem has been clear and it has been huge. The delays are found in the third category, mainly in the naturalisation of foreigners, people seeking to become Greek citizens on the basis of Article 5 of the Code of Nationality. At the moment we are talking about thirty thousand requests of this category, some of which have been tabled ten years ago. According to the legislation so far, foreigners who have been asked to become Greeks are invited at the final stage to give an interview to a committee that sees the good knowledge and use of our language, as well as the knowledge they possess in Greek history, culture, political institutions, etc. These committees - today, nineteen throughout the country - have proved to be extremely dysfunctional, because they usually meet twice a month. Often, the meetings are postponed, as staff from various departments are involved and these delays coincide with all requests, since officials themselves are invited to assess all these requests. From the first moment we called on the National Transparency Authority to study the problem and to submit its own proposals. We have been the first body to cooperate with the National Transparency Authority since November 2019 and since the beginning of May 2020 we have had its findings, which indicated the malfunctions, but also the risks of corruption in the area we are discussing. As we were committed at the time, the conclusions of this investigation have guided our legislative initiative. As this finding pointed out, favourable conditions are created for the development of customer practices and cases of opacity and corruption. At the same time, we cannot overlook the fact that there is a relative disparity between the questions they are addressing, usually the committees to the people who are taking the interviews. It is no coincidence that one in five of the committees examined by the committees rejected raises objections to the verdict of the committee, appealing to the Ministry's board of citizenship, and the maximum size of interviews that has taken place over all these years in the upper case reached four thousand. During the remaining years, interviews have moved around three thousand, while the corresponding demands that are submitted each year are about six to eight thousand. It is obvious, then, that there is a huge problem. The current system of interviews by committees is incomplete, perpetuates the problem and creates additional huge problems. That is why we are moving forward to this legislative initiative, with the aim of making the naturalisation of foreigners much more objective, transparent. Really, where's my colleague, Mr. Muzalas? He left me with the question: What is the opacity of the system we are proposing? We are also aiming at the quickest return of Greek citizenship to those who meet the legitimate conditions and the elimination of customer relations and corruption. That is what I imagine you cannot deny, gentlemen, that there have been decades. We are coming to put a definitive end to clientele relations and corruption. That is why we are establishing the replacement of interviews by the committees with a single, pan-Hellenic type examination system, such as the pan-Hellenic examinations given by every child, every high school student, to enter the university of such prestige, with the aim of obtaining a certificate of competence for naturalisation. The examination relates to the knowledge of Greek languages at the level of the B1, knowledge of history, geography, culture and political institutions. In other words, the knowledge deemed necessary for equal and independent participation in the public will be fairly and objectively certified. One cannot obviously participate in Greece's commons unless one has demonstrated his knowledge at all these levels. I would also like to point out that, with regard to people belonging to the special classes of learning, for example: dyslexic, elderly from 62 years old and older, an oral examination by a special committee is possible. I imagine that there can be no objection to that. The acquisition of the certificate will be an essential condition for the submission of an application for naturalisation from now on and at the end of the process a very, very short interview will be concluded to three members of the service with the sole aim of verifying the elements of identity and its economic and social integration. I therefore believe that no one can question the objectivity, equivalence, universality and transparency of the whole process. I would also like to make it quite clear that these examinations will be carried out on a constant basis twice a year for those who want to become Greeks. A table of subjects is planned in both Greek and other cognitive subjects. This bank will be electronically accessible to anyone. So there is absolute transparency that cannot be exceeded. And I think we have made the necessary clarifications on the issue of the income situation, where the objections said earlier obviously do not apply. There must be a minimum economic base, because otherwise how does a man live in our country? But this must be defined by ministerial decisions, because we must take account of economic developments in the economic situation, the logic that exists in every person's lives. So the logic is that I think it is powerful. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] I would also like to stress that the Directorate-General for Citizenship of the Ministry of the Interior is being established for the fuller supervision and evaluation of individual organic units and, in conjunction with the independent supervisory and evaluation department that we have set up with a previous legislative initiative, we ensure the level of control of all stages of the process. Forty-two new organic positions in citizenship are created here, which will be fully covered through the mobility system, calling on experienced civil servants to participate in this new effort, which is a very important reform. I count to a great extent on the support that will be given by the civil servants. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I will conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u281	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u282	We also have procedures for electronicisation, digitisation of services and procedures. It is a direct priority, which will contribute to the effective implementation of this reform. In conclusion, I would like to say that in our law a number of regulations are laid down which are useful and essential. We resolve important workers' issues. I referred to the 'Help at home' before. We further strengthen the possibility for municipalities for a percentage of project leased workers to be even more effective in the cleanliness of schools, which is a key priority in any case. We facilitate mothers with childbirth leave to legal persons under private law. This is a very important intervention, as well as the mobility system for chambers between them and the State to chambers, which contribute decisively to improving the services provided, but also to improving the possibilities of the citizens themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must all judge the truth and the reality. And when we are making our opposition, we must also be tempered in our words. I have heard here during this debate two - three opinions which sincerely outweigh me. It was said by colleagues who had written the speech before my morning intervention that it is too big a limit that we put on the income limit so that people can become Greeks, I am referring to the eight thousand. If anything else one must correct the speech he has prepared some days ago to express the party line. We must have an open and effective dialogue here. Also, dear colleague of the Change Movement, Mrs Liikali, I don't think we're any other worlds. And I think that you're doing in here is not with any other 'other world'. We are all Greek women and Greek citizens, we represent the Greek people and with the voice of measure and logic we can go our homeland very ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u283	Thank you too, Minister. What did I get out of here? Wait a minute. Pick up and be nipples, Mr. Ragosi, today. Mr Ioannis Ragus, SYRIZA's parliamentary representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u285	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u286	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin this speech by saying... Please pay attention, Mr Theodorikos, because I will address you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u287	I'm sorry. Keep going, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u288	I was going to start speaking with a question, although, of course, indirectly but clearly, I got the answer with something you said before. I am going to make it very clear to me and to my colleagues what exactly the government intends to do on what subject? On the issue of citizenship for immigrant children who were either born in Greece or went to school in Greece. The question I have to ask you, and please if you will answer it now: Is there a will that the government intends to amend provisions concerning the procedures for the performance of Greek citizenship to these children of legal immigrants who were born or studied in Greek schools? Would you like to answer me, Mr. Theodorikos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u289	Listen to all your speech and I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u290	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u291	No, that's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u292	I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u293	Keep going, Mr. Ragossi, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u294	No, my speech on this side is combined with what will be your answer. I'll say if you say you're going to change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u295	Yes, but, Mr Ragosi, don't have a dialogue. He told you he would answer you later in his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u296	It's not bad, Mr. President, if he wants to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u297	Are we going to get him now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u298	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u299	That is what concerns me more. So, you don't know or you don't want to say what you're going to do with the kids?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, there will be no dialogue here! You have reduced the Members' time for everyone to speak. No, let's have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u301	Please. That's what we said. And Mr. Ragossi's, I've got him two minutes. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u302	Mr. Theodorikos, you said before, and I am obliged, therefore, since you refuse to answer, which may mean things...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u303	But I'll answer you, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u304	Okay. Good, why don't you answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u305	Mr Ragossi, we have one minute that is what we want to solve. Please! We can't force him to stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u306	Well, obviously we can't force him. But the fact that Mr Theodorikos here beforehand proud that there are provisions in the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u307	Since this morning, Mr. Raguss, all... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u308	But please! Have a seat! Have a seat! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u309	Are you sure Mr. Theodorikos wants you as an attorney? If it's up, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u310	Mercy! Dialogue do you want, Mr. Ragosi? Let go of the terrain!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u311	Please, Mr. Ragosi. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Theodorikos, then, you have proudly said that you are setting up two addresses that will speed up the performance of citizenship to children who were born or went to school here. From that it comes together - I may be wrong after you refuse to answer - that you do not intend to change these provisions and that if you were intended you would have brought them in or suggested them in this bill. But do you know what these provisions are, ladies and gentlemen? It is precisely these provisions that, when they were introduced in 2010, caused this incomprehensible and unacceptable extreme right-wing wave of rage on the basis of the motto that Greek is born and you are not born, which was adopted by the New Democracy party, made it a central political reference and strategy, saying that we will not deliver Greece to the illegal immigrants of Law 3838, and that is when the foundations for strengthening this criminal structure of the Golden Dawn came in. This is the historical truth of how it was strengthened and went geometrically in the first few years the election force of the Golden Dawn. Today, New Democracy comes here as another Prespecies Agreement actually to tell the Greek people that, the one who said it was a disaster for the Greek nation, the return of citizenship to these children, leaves these provisions untouched. Not only that, but it's proud that with new addresses it will create will be attributed more quickly to these children. That is, today, the New Democracy also says, after he has done so much harm by deceiving Greek citizens and fueling the dynamics of the Golden Dawn that began by Law38 and not by the squares, that you are born and born and born. But that's what he said with the Prespecies Agreement. That it's finally a historic deal. At the committee meetings, but also today by our rapporteur, Mr Hatzigiannakis, the picture of the draft law you are proposing is very clear. So I will not repeat that our view is substantiated that you have been placed on making the process of naturalisation really an insurmountable obstacle to legal immigrants who have been working in this place for years, some of them for decades. The aim, of course, is to satisfy the individual right-wing reflexes of those who hear you say and hear that you are at last stricter in the regime. However, the debate on Greek citizenship and its performance is not a debate on immigrants. It is a debate on the rule of law in Greece. It is not the debate on the performance of citizenship, a debate which is taking place in terms of an entirely opportune - and often extreme right-wing - approach. Where does the rule of law go today, then, after these arrangements, once they become the law of the state? Where was it - why do we have to say this - before Law 3838 and the 2015 law that healed unconstitutionalism in the majority of the Council of State of Law 3838? Where was the Greek state in the hands of your own party? It was where it was - as valuable as citizenship - a state vastly Rusfetti. A state in which phenomenality was flattered. Do you want just one example? In 2008, the naturalization committee wrote about someone who wanted to take citizenship. He was married to a Greek national. He didn't have children. He has a Muslim religion. It speaks moderately the Greek language. He did not answer any of the questions of geography and history raised to him. He does not know the country's geographical departments, national anniversaries, religious festivities. He did not mention the number of elected representatives of the electorate of the Greek Parliament. He doesn't know the country's city. He could not speak of the types of elections and does not know our national anthem. More generally, the Committee on naturalisation "no contact was found with the current Greek political and social reality". The committee, as is normal after these, recommends negatively for its physicalisation. After a few days of decision of the State Secretary for the Interior: “We accept the request for the naturalisation of the foreigner for the acquisition of Greek nationality.” Such cases cannot be imagined how many there are. That's where Greece was. He went to Law 3838. He went to the law of 2015. Where's he going today? Is it going one step ahead? The answer is no. It does not go one step forward, and let us speak on heavy terms: great reform, truth, transparency and dignity. What, basically, is coming back to the country today? The plausibility, inexperience, non-objectivity and, of course, the corruption that arises from opacity in all the institutions you institutionalize with this law is restored. All organs. The Commission for the Interview. Commission for exams. The Commission for the Organisation of the naturalisation process. They shall be nominated solely by the Secretary-General of citizenship by the majority in all these institutions. It is the largest joke in this bill, the reference that has been made to the alleged introduction of pan-Hellenic examinations. Today it didn't happen so often. But is this the pan-Hellenic exam? This is where you're building a business bank. You actually put the amorophobe - which Greeks too can't pass these tests - and you know what you're saying to him? "Find a side way to learn the issues from the committee." That's actually the system you're organizing. An opacity system that leads to mathematical accuracy in corruption. Is that the pan-Hellenics? We're building a committee and we're doing written examinations? Let us know, Mr. Theodorikos, how the pan-Hellenic examinations take place. Will you hide the names of those who will answer the written tests? Of course, that's not all. There's another side that's even more serious. Under the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination ‘any discrimination, restriction or preference based on race, colour, origin or ethnic origin intended or resulting in the elimination or restriction of recognition, pleasure or exercise on an equal basis of human rights and fundamental freedoms in political, economic, social, cultural or any other area of life’, what is it? It's racial discrimination. You know, then, that it's racial discrimination of karabinatis, by definition, the prediction of your bill that these immigrants should get through the tests 70%. 70%? In what school unit, what Greek citizen needs 70% to go forward rather than 50%? If it's not racist, what is it? When one enters college even if one writes two, you come in and say that to get the "yes", move from the written exams, you have to get 70%? And isn't it racial discrimination based on this conception of the far right? But of course you are, such legislations are introduced. I shall close, Mr President, with two references. There are some provisions for self-government. Great, he says, reforms. Who can we remember? Reforms for masks? The masks you shared and took the CEDC? You broke into CEDEFOP and self-government to share masks with children. But beyond that, my colleague had said to the committees, but I think Mr Zachariadis too has come the draft budget. What can anyone talk about the self-government that leads her to bankruptcy? The revenues of self-government, like the revenues of the state, because of the recession due to your policies first and then the pandemic, have collapsed. And here you come and explain these provisions on the same day, on the same days that the draft budget removes resources from the government. As small and limited as it is your own contribution to this downward attempt of self-government to bankruptcy and you do the same when you get the proceeds from the churches. You want to take them because you promised the Archbishop or the Holy Synod? Compensate for them. Give the equivalent of what the municipalities lose. You made a correction today for the canisters. Let me make a little point. You need to see the case of kiosks and kiosks. It cannot be that those who rent kiosks from the municipalities are outside such policies that are currently being conducted horizontally, throughout the entire Greek society and throughout the Greek real economy. Of course, again without a loss of revenue from the municipalities. I saw a complaint today from the CEDEFOP, because you went, it says, and you took them some millions, you gave them to the EBRD, without them agreeing and complaining to you. Well, last report is for all those provisions related to the definition of administrations. There, if it's pheasantness in all her majesty. And good, if you want to make party, racist choices in the administrations of public bodies, why do you now go here and challenge anyone who reads that administration choices will be made by an institution in which the majority of the three members will be appointed by the government? Who are you kidding? Who can be persuaded? And you speak in the name of dignity, and it doesn't fit in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u313	Can I give you all six minutes of your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u314	Yes, give it to me, Mr President. And the worst of all, Mr. Theodorikos, is that not only are you organizing this method, which you have done science of undividedness and pheasyness in the selection of administrations, but you also benefit the ASP. Convert it into a "candle on the cake", a decorative element. You are putting the head of this committee that you - on the basis of party criteria, he says, the President or the Vice-President of the AACC. Is there greater simplicity than that for this independent authority? You're on your feet and you haven't left anything up. You're all degrading. Reforms you say, dignity you say, "ASP" you say, "Hellenic" you say. But the pan-Hellenics, I told you before, it's only a joke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u315	You're done?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u316	No, I have something to say about the amendment, Mr President. Well, we, as we said this morning, gave you the opportunity to prove whether you really have a sincere will on such issues as those related to the condemnation of the Golden Dawn, to have another political ethos, another political culture, another political culture in the management of these issues. In fact, we came here and did not bring you a ready amendment. We told you to fix it yourself. Make it up, let's get together, let's get together. And what did you do? In fact, you have taken the responsibility of denying what we have proposed. It turned out to be the sole competence of the Ministry of Interior to take this legislative initiative. And no matter how much today you have tried to avoid, for reasons of political egoism, which does not go hand in hand with political seriousness or political responsibility, adopting such an amendment, what will happen? What's the result? You'll come here. You will bring an order to the electoral law, in which you will include the offences, the offences, which will certainly include the offence of setting up and managing and participating in a criminal organisation, and the deprivation of civil rights to members of the Golden Dawn criminal organisation will proceed. That's gonna be one day. Unless you decide not to even establish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u317	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u318	I'm done, Mr. President. We have tabled a specific amendment. And those in the morning who reacted, some of those who reacted, such an amendment of this kind, direction and such a legislative amendment tabled only for the Golden Dawn. An amendment that anyone who really wants to stand up to the problem at the moment understands one thing: that, with the amendment we have tabled, the political death of this criminal organisation is achieved, because it lacks and will be deprived of political rights, which, of course, we have put into the crisis - now we can no longer do differently - of the Minister. Of course, it is already in the crisis of Greek society, which we are sure will welcome this initiative very positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u320	It is an entirely conscious choice not only from Mr Ragosi but from the standpoint of the leadership of the political party of officer opposition, the continuing polarization, the operation of artificial separatist lines. And in this struggle, obviously, Mr. Raguss takes the lead by building his own parallel world. He lives with his memories, lives with his past. He remembered in 2008, to tell us something about citizenship and to tell us at the end of the day that there can be no total exams for foreigners, so that in a fair, objective and equitable way 2021 can be Greeks who deserve it. Amazing argument, Mr. Ragosi. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u321	You know what a pan-Hellenic exam means.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u322	He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u323	I think you've managed to be Mr. Polakis' twin. Honestly, you're going well. With regard to the question you asked me, I would like to say that, as you know, the law currently in force for foreign children is 4332/2015. If I remember correctly, Minister for the Interior was Mr. Voutsi. We do not intend to change the criteria. I have one question: why didn't the SYRIZA government have four years of addressing the General Secretariat of Citizenship in order to make it easier for immigrant children to pass more quickly and normally? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Your sensitivity wasn't as good as four and a half years? Didn't you make it, Mr. Ragossi? Not you personally, SYRIZA's party, which ruled the country. That is what you have asked me about. And because I see you insist so much on Golden Dawn, first of all in my speech I told you that what is important is that the Greek people is systematically isolated and always anyone who expresses and represents extreme fascist, nazi perceptions and behaviours. Anybody, sir. We can't rest. After death, after the murder of this son of a bitch, Paul Bryssa, the Golden Dawn took five hundred thousand votes, sir. That should concern us all and not clean up with easy intercategories. So if anyone leaves, for example, a criminal organization outside, all the other fascists who leave them out of Parliament? The Greek people with their vote. And this is a job for all of us, gentlemen. That is why I am telling you: you are talking about another New Democracy. She was described and I doubt there was ever the way you described her. You are not talking about the New Democracy of Mr. Mitsotakis. And I want to tell you something. I want to tell you that, sir. I want to tell you. This faction has very solid roots, because in times that many have said not to enter Europe, its leader, Constantine Karamanlis, took a wise decision and led the country to safe waters and a sustainable and serious perspective. The one we all recognize today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u324	Close, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u325	I'm closing, Mr. President. I use my next year too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u326	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u327	It'll be over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u328	Wait a minute, Mr. President. So this party has solid roots, because in strategic matters it made the right choices too early. He has another advantage. She knows how to walk together, to broaden her powers, to renew her ideas and to adapt to developments. I do not see that many others in this Chamber have it, and this is the secret of the success of the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u329	The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece has asked for the floor. However, in order to proceed with the process, he agreed to give the floor first to Mr.Zesis Ghikalaya from New Democracy and the beautiful Kastoria, which at this time is very beautiful for anyone who visits it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to avoid it, but I cannot then have the previous parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA, not to mention the morning sitting I have been attending and to make two points. Today, SYRIZA, through his parliamentary representative, was characterised by hypocritical and paradoxical tactics, as the Minister of Interior rightly said. We cannot lose one and a half hours of parliamentary time to be spoken by the Members. Strange things have been said. We as a New Democracy feel like custodians of the constitutional order for the separation of powers. Justice is free and independent. And yesterday, he was justly awarded. I cannot, however, testify to the pride we feel, because the Prime Minister, the first reason New Democracy had guarded the criminals, as proved by yesterday's final decision, and also by Prime Minister and Government of New Democracy, we led to the final decision of condemning the criminals. Secondly, I cannot fail to point out that, in the morning thereafter, the rapporteur for Officerial Vice-President asked, in essence, yesterday, for the great day to be seen as a national celebration. I think, however, that the definition of a national holiday is a celebration that unites the entire Greek nation. All right, well, let's wait a while longer for the trials on criminals who killed three people - and one of the three was pregnant - at the Marfin Bank ten years ago, and then perhaps we can discuss a holiday. I was saying, Minister, since my students' years of study that we as a liberal centre-right party feel like we are equated from black and red fascism. I would like to say to this that today's ripe I say that I feel abhorrent from the aberrations that cause the spectrum that is in the black on the one hand, but on the other, that spectrum that totalitarian, fascist, has some shades of red. I come on today's agenda, which is really a very important bill. He's dealing with a lot of issues. However, we cannot focus on the fact that its main issue, Mr Secretary-General of citizenship, is the amendment of the Code of Greek citizenship. It deals with the draft law on the merits of selecting officials in the public sector, as well as with regulations leading to the proper functioning of local authorities. If we want to give a word, modernization will now characterise the Code of the Hellenic Nationality and the process from now on, deserve more in the selection of administrations and support for local self-government. The Code of Nationality has been told about the three categories of those involved. I focus more on those children of immigrants who either came too young or were born in Greece and studied in the educational system. Let me remind you that all these years there has been a great deal of trouble. Every year we had more than four thousand applications. We had six years of delays, paradoxical, and after a long time they took the answer from the nineteen committees operating across the country that they cannot proceed. The General Secretariat of Citizenship of this Government took advantage of the study by the National Transparency Authority and resulted in a legislation characterised by transparency, objectivity, equivalence and speed. The main feature is the abolition of the naturalization committees and the introduction to them twice a year of pan-Hellenic examinations with a certificate of physicalisation knowledge. It is true that they know Greek 2' Gymnasium, geography, history and culture of the country. It goes without saying that there will be scrutiny - and I stress it - of all of them having a white penal record. Special care is taken for special population groups, elderly, disabled, dyslexic. I should like to say that for the children of migrants, it goes without saying that once they have studied the Greek educational system, this certificate does not need to be issued that they can be Greek citizens, since they have been involved in the educational system for all the years, as Isocrates says. So we have a redesign of the naturalisation process to eliminate the sources of corruption and customer policies. What we are introducing in the second chapter, with criteria and molecules in the selection of management executives, is a key complement to the legislative initiative that our Government has - and was one of the first - for the final state. Because many people say to us: 'You voted for it'. They went through this great piece of legislation we had at the time. We knew it's not that easy to get over the strangles and bureaucratic processes. This piece of legislation is a course ahead and on it. We have an institutional relaunch of public administration. We are ensuring mobility in the emergency staff of the LAG. We are faced with ensuring adequate staffing, emergency, seasonal and temporary needs. It is important, Minister, that you establish the interoperability of the Information System of the Ministry of the Interior with the Register of Human Resources Greek State on the one hand and, on the other, with the "ERGANI" of the Ministry of Labour. It is important that we should have an update of the human resources records in the public sector. We know very well from our course of policy that too many agencies, heads of service, often did not know how many employees each had and where they were. So that's gonna get an end. We have other issues, such as arrangements for service councils...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u331	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u332	I shall conclude, Mr President. I understand that time is short. It is very important that we are giving a solution by extending the contracts to 'Help at Home'. Some time ago, there was the transparent competition through ASP for the recruitment of permanent staff. However, until the end of the proceedings, we are prolonging the contracts of those who are already in place. So this piece of legislation is an important one, because through it the image of the modern Greek state is projected and renewed, an image that unites yesterday with today, respecting every history that is delivered and inherited to us. On the other hand, we embrace everything innovatory, since we filter it and evaluate it. I would like to say, therefore, that in this modernisation and progress we are giving today, we are adapting to the new data that the times are taking on board. We are proud to be representatives of this place and of this party that, by voting on this bill, we welcome transparency and add another boost seal to the refinery modernisation of our society and public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr. Jekalaya. Mr Theodorikos has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two legislative improvements. To be written in the Minutes, please very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u335	Of course, they'll share.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u336	The following Parliamentary amendments are accepted: H, with a general number of 499 and a special number of 55, the general number of 489 and a special 48, as amended for legislative reasons. H by a general number of 507 and a specialist 63, in particular the second and third Articles. The first article is tabled as legislative, as I said before and a general number 510 and a special 66. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Pafile, you will make another concession for Mr. Constantinople from the Change Movement, because then he has to replace me. Mr Odysseus Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u339	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here to discuss the Ministry of the Interior bill. I would like to begin with an issue that concerns, Minister, the establishment of development agencies, that is to say, the possibility of developing companies having a local contribution to development agencies. After many things, you have changed too much, but I would like to raise two issues, which, in my view, are very important. The first is: How can a municipality be a shareholder in ten development projects and have all a seat in Athens? I don't understand that. And if you don't want to hear from us, listen to your district managers. So, will they be municipalities that will be in fifteen development together and have a seat in Athens? All right, then what do we want from the periphery? Minister? Do not make procedures from the back door that I think you do not want to allow them to be done and you understand that they should not be done. Listen to Mr. Amanatidis, if you don't want me, whoever's an expert on this. And in any case, let me tell you something. Here is the following: SYRIZA has come to speak of specific development, one of which is in the Peloponnese, in which everything has contributed. Some time ago the immigrant programmes, refugees, were running behind them. Now revenge! Let's target them! What is not controlled by us is whether we are in the opposition or are in the government. Don't let that happen. Do not allow there to be a conflict where a municipality will be a shareholder in ten companies, just as you did not allow it for the FVO. Ladies and gentlemen, I could not, however, just stay in this process. Today is a historic day for all of us who started on the very difficult course of 2009, but also for dozens of colleagues who did not choose the easy solution, take their chair and take it elsewhere. We have many experiences of sharing for the judicial result, but also what has happened in recent years. We've experienced all our lives and our families. We survived the violence. We have seen what happened in the past few years. Yes, there were reactions and there were spontaneous reactions from people who, in an unprecedented situation, had difficulties in his life. But, gentlemen, it wasn't all spontaneous. They were organized, and I do not want to smack political parties at all, but I will smack policies that they used in the same way. And I'm explaining. Why violence and Golden Dawn? Because our society and the political groups, the parties, have played an important role. They stopped treating the bottle as illegal in politicians, yogurt, beating the university, the immigrant. They thought the strongest one could cheer him up. And so the Golden Dawn came to St. Panteleimon to take the grandmothers. And then the memos came. And there, ladies and gentlemen, some people in the House today, along with the golden people, made hangers for the MPs and said: 'By burning and burning the House'. And then in the square there were too many together. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But they didn't stay there. One of the moments when the country's history was blackened is the events that took place in Thessaloniki, when the parade stopped. And then there were two groups that stopped the parade. On the one hand, it was the Golden Globe team and on the other hand Mr. Karanika's team, later strategic advisor, who was caught by the police because he participated with SYRIZA officials. What did Mr Katrugalos reply to the question: 'I have the right to come to your university and to express my views in favour of the existing policy carried out by the government of the country?' "Of course you have the right. You may be prospered as you come, after all, whoever is exposed to politics should be praised, when he needs it, of the dead and even of the hatter, as you deserve, Mr. Pangale." After two years he couldn't go talk to Kalamata. And as Charilaos Florakis said: "Whoever runs into the sea finds it in salt." Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in recent years is not to happen again, but the political forces of the country, which have participated in various ways, must apologize publicly - not from us - for the hatred and civil climate that they have created in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you something that has nothing to do with the criminal code. They told them who was gonna say it. Some people have a continuity and a course. In 2001, Article 187 was added to the Criminal Code, currently tried by the criminal Golden Dawn. The PASOK government brought it. The PASOK and the New Democracy voted for it. New Democracy in the last few days forgets to talk about 2013 those who spoke about the Golden Dawn were Vangelis Venizelos and PASOK. I understand they want to get the price. But that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. You should know that we first talked about it and then the reports said that we were very aggressive. I understand the SYRIZA colleagues who have often spoken about what happened at the symphony and all that. We have denounced and are not going to get into this process. We weren't either with the "reconstructed" and the water and when the "reconstructed" SYRIZA ANELs sent Dimitris Konstantopoulos to the hospital, nor did the rest of the teams do it with the rally. I'm ending up with something that I think is prophetic. There will be a day when Mr. Tsipras will wake up and will not be able to withstand the results of the misery with which he has been dealing all these years. Wherever you catch him, you can't justify him. "It is a good opportunism, good privatization, good selfish approach to politics, but the results come to the end and the end will be bad." I did not say that today, the man who represents Mr Tsipras in the Chamber, Mr Yiannis Ragus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr Vice President. The parliamentary spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis. I would like to inform you, Mr Pafile, that we have made a small 'cut' of time and I believe you will respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u342	Everyone's spoken for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u343	You have 12, but I'll put your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u344	Now did you find the time to say it? If you want, stop me. This isn't the first time you've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u345	You've never shown respect to me, and I have complaints, but it's okay. I appreciate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u346	I say, therefore, that it is impossible today not to start, even though the debate took place this morning on the matter of the Golden Dawn. I will repeat some things, because repetition is the mother of learning, not for the Chamber, but mainly for the outside and those who may see us. We would say first of all that the attempt - let me say it as you say, although we do not agree - to capitalise on the right decision of the court that characterises the Golden Dawn criminal organisation, much more so that no sign, Minister, has been heard of self-criticism from the other parties. No one came out, no one had the boo and the courage to say: “Yes, we were wrong. We underestimated or whatever. Nobody said that about the attitude of the other parties towards the Golden Dawn. As far as we are concerned, because it is true that the court tried, truths say, from the very beginning, we were placed in positions of principle, characterizing Nazi, fascist, criminal organization the Golden Dawn, both within the House and outside the House. And you must remember all of you, those of you and those of you who were not, the treatment we had from the President of the Parliament. And because the JRC happened on behalf of me to be the one who made this petition in this House, it brought me back to stop the designations. Of course the opposite happened. I said it louder. All major controversies and conflicts of the JRC must remember that fascist monsters are not invited to events, which are part of other parties - with exceptions, of course - they did not do so and do not do so, like all governments. I'm also addressing the SYRIZA who lifted the flag up. When I said to Mr Vitsa: 'Why are you calling the golden people in Kastelorizo?', he said: 'Why is it an institutional party? That was the answer. And you and the golden ones went. The same happened in municipalities, in mass bodies, everywhere. The same happened to the municipality these days - and I will say it out loud these days - when the Mayor of Perama - SYRIZA says it is so - he put up and erased slogans against the Golden Dawn. Arrested a municipal councillor of ours in Artemis. Of course the Ministry intervened, to be honest, and was released immediately, because he went and erased emetic gold slogans outside the school. So what I am saying is not very important, nor are we talking about just to be justified. We don't need to. But it is important that the controversies on the part of the JRC, which, from first positions and without playing political games, played all of them, except for the urban parties, was opposed and hard, in fact, with the Golden Dawn not only within Parliament, but mainly outside the House - and especially outside the House - when the others were silent, when the members of you were enthusiastic and summoning them at all events. I'll say below. So we ask: Really, you who go out on the tiles did not know what it is and what Golden Dawn stands for, regardless of whether the Greek people voted for it? Didn't you read their paperwork? Didn't you ever read that Hitler was headlines that had all the fascist killers and praised them on the anniversary of their deaths and so forth? Didn't you know their ideology? You didn't see, did you hear the speeches of their officers? I'm addressing you all. Didn't you hear Michaloliaco pushing the spear on the sidewalk, saying "we're the generation of the defeats of 1945"? Didn't you know all this? Didn't you literally know about the rupture? Didn't you see how they worked? They went into popular markets, blocked Saint Panteleimon, blackmailed the Pakistani and pimped them money, or "we'll burn you", beat them, stabbed them. The TVs showed it all. What did you do, and now you're going out on the tiles? I mean, you too. Don't give up on that. So I'm saying you knew all that. Did you know what they were doing both in Athens and across Greece? Why this frustration? Aren't you going to ask for an apology? Aren't you going to say you were wrong? All governments. We were left to be the black sheep, as you were saying. Fortunately, we had lifted a flag and said it was a big case and should not be underestimated. You want, therefore, because you are scratching on the cup of tsapani, with this squeeze - get off the reed - to read you statements by members of all parties about the Golden Dawn - and, indeed, by journalists who are on your side - what did they say about the Golden Dawn then? Should I read you or tell you or go to Youtube and find them, why are there many prominent journalists, tops, who invited the golden people to interview? And why did this story stop? I'll see you around for the Greek people to know. Because we refused to take part in a debate that will be attended by a representative of the Golden Dawn and followed us - that is positive - and the other parties then disappeared. Only the state ERT, Mr Ragosi and gentlemen of SYRIZA and gentlemen of the New Democracy, said: "I can't. I have to give them the speeches, I have to present them, because they are an institutional party, elected to Parliament." Yes or no? Is it true what we're talking about? Is it true, Mr. Chiara, or not? But no one can talk about all this today. And today you have all appeared to be familiar with the fight against fascism. I won't say shame. I will say: 'Kritton the slow'. And better is the self-criticism towards the Greek people. I could talk a lot of time. We do not like to start the nomenclature, who said what, where, nor do we gossip, political criticism. She's tough, not real. Other issues, Minister, I shall mention. The great success of the New Democracy and the other parties in the process is to join the European Union. I really ask you and all of you: do you not know what the European Union's attitude is, not in words, but in practice, against fascism? Do you not know - and don't say no - the distortion, the forgery of his story in World War II, actually acquitting fascists? I'll say something positive. When the first resolution came in 2005, almost all the Greek MEPs but two signed a text that we made, condemning this effort. Is that enough? You do not know that Germany, - the European Union, do you? - The one with a law, chasing the Nazis, gave pensions to SS criminals convicted of crimes? If you don't know, then everyone goes home. Don't you know that in Latvia the Waffen SS painted them heroes, those who an extreme thing were that they were taking blood every morning from seven thousand children who died and sent them to the German camps? You don't know? We asked questions within the European Parliament at the time. The European Union's response was: 'We are not involved'. Don't you know that 200 German generals of SS and Vermah were serving in NATO after 1960, who were doomed to war crimes? Do you not know the Munich Agreement - nobody spoke - that gave Hitler Czechoslovakia and smuggled him to hit the Soviet Union? You don't know them? You don't know Katine's forgery? Aren't you aware of so much has happened since 1990 at a vulgar, skeptical, disrespectful point? Twenty million dead in the Soviet Union, the one who defeated fascism and took them to identify with the SS Hitlers? Full silence, distortion of Hitler's rise. You don't know who put Hitler up - and you talk about populism and stuff like that - in power? You are not aware of the meeting - we have said it - and the German industrialists' decision - I will say it again that youth can hear it because it cannot find it elsewhere. "KRUPP", "THYSSEN", "BOSCH" and other giant German companies met the day before and decided to surrender power to Hitler. The following day, bankers, all Deutsche Bank and others in Germany decided to surrender power to Hitler. Why? Because they believed they could carry out this murderous, inhuman war that cost fifty million dead to redeal the pie and Germany that had lost in World War I to return. Don't you know all this? Don't you know about the second Nuremberg court? The first one was for war criminals. The second was for those who financially supported Hitler. You don't know or never read that this trial was stopped at the request of the Americans, because Ford had adorned Hitler because the American industrialists were powering with steel and other metals Hitler until 1944, early 1945, mediator, i.e., at a critical point in the war. You don't know all that, really, and you're talking about what fascism is? Where are these taught, Mr. Theodorikos and gentlemen of the Government and SYRIZA? Do they ever tell any school? They never say that. Nothing! The story of fascism is not taught and you wonder why youth has been misled. Because youth is another generation, it does not have the living experiences, which we are proud to have. Why isn't that all done? Because fascism is genuine and naturalized, a declared child of the capitalist system, the capitalist system itself. Let go of these, some theories! We hear things, about black, red fascism, and so on, about crazy things, about sandy people. Another criticism you can make. We hear things that are unbelievable. Why? Has the big capital affected the fascist regime? But since these interests have served. They couldn't with urban democracy and went to fascism. That's what's going on and that's not what's going on. And you're coming here now and you're competitioning - not to say a pageant - anti-fascism. Who won Golden Dawn? People’s uprising, this defeated it, that the world took the lead of communists and other anti-fascists. We're not saying we were on our own. An anti-fascist current was created and the murder of the Paul Bridge was the drop that caused the glass to overflow. But we have history. It is the story - secondly - that brought about the collapse of the Golden Dawn, the anti-fascist story written when their ancestors - but not only of them, but also of others - were friends of Hitler when they were the ones who executed patriots, when they were the ones who had hoods, when they were the ones who were vowed before, but also after the Civil War and they ruled some of Greece and they took credit as heroes, the ones who handed over rebel heads to the fascists. Yeah, that's what they won, and we're not reassuring. We keep going, because the snake didn't die, it barely has many eggs and in many areas. This system, therefore, if it is not overturned, will again be fascism and such regimes because it is unfair, because it is inhuman, because 1% of world wealth has 90% of world wealth, 60%, 70%, because millions of people are dying of hunger, when others spend what others do not make in ten lives in one night, because this system prevents humanity from progress. And socialism - communism will come back, drawing conclusions from its positive and negative ones along the way. I now talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u347	And with her, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u348	This is where a fight started. You know, it takes a little - I won't say shame, because it's a heavy word - restraint. Are you the SYRIZA who amended the Criminal Code, yes or no? Yeah. Did you go out and say "we were wrong"? Oh, no. You're the New Democracy's one who went out on the tiles? And you did well. We had come out, too, and we even warned. We have talked more clearly of all of you that goldguns will fall softly. Are you the ones who haven't changed him for so long? You changed him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u349	We changed him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u350	What have you changed? You didn't change anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u351	No dialogue, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u352	No, you kept him. Well, then, low-flight and not too high because there are lightnings many of them, and some fall after the reeds when they break, you know what's going on, to talk a little more popular. So you both have responsibilities. We have pointed this out and because they also criticised us for the 187 that we did not vote on, 187 is not just that. 187 is the most famous 'terrorist' that you, when you had some other principles, were opposed, and SYRIZA voted against him and was opposed and when it became a government, not only did it apply it, but it brought another one, more so because it is the European Union's checks. And you know, now we don't have any illusions about where these laws are targeting, but you know that by the laws, social revolutions are not inhibited, no matter what you do. When he shines the river, when the people decide, it doesn't stop. However, for this one we are tabling an amendment, and we also call on the government and the other parties to accept it. We do not agree with the SYRIZA amendment, because it has put half the Criminal Code in place and half the Criminal Code can wrap us all up on paper tomorrow because it will deprive us of the right to vote and stand for election. You've put in fifteen, twenty articles. May I read it? I've got two minutes. The amendment says: "Amendment to Article 5 to deny the right to vote and stand for election in all elections, national and local and European elections, those who have even been convicted, since it does not refer to the final or irrevocable decision on the crimes referred to in paragraphs 1" - in electoral law we say - "Constitution and inclusion in a criminal organisation" and 2 “Address”. Secondly, a self-righteous discount from the post of municipal ruler with direct application of whoever has been sentenced for crimes 1 and 2 of the Criminal Code, b. respectively, self-righteous discount from the post of a hereditary regional administration with direct applicability and an equitable discount from his post if even a first sentence for crimes 1 and 2 was convicted." We think it's clear. Here's Rhodes! And let everyone take their responsibilities! We have already raised a matter in both primary and regional, and everywhere, for the fascists elected to leave because they were and are criminals. We're waiting for an answer. Finally, for the bill two words: Greek citizenship. Our opinion is that the government is trying to balance between the pressures and the so-called 'badness of blood' that Mr Velopoulos told us today, like those who worked with Hitler, those who betrayed Greece did not have Greek blood. They had Greek blood! While there were others who didn't have - blood I mean - and fought and killed both in the front line and in Albania and in the Resistance and everywhere. Now these blood justice and other things are to collect votes, and they are darkness. The government is trying to balance between this and pressures that it can also accept in a more modern perspective and positive in general, that citizenship must be attributed to people who have lived for years in Greece. Now, we have kids in school, they hang out with Albanians, they hang out with Iraqi people, they hang out with others and they come home and you don't understand where they are, they literally have that perception. Our opinion - not our opinion - is that it is changing to the worst, Minister. It does not make it easier for citizenship to be given, it makes it even more difficult. How does it make it hard? First of all, economics. The criteria you make about how much income they must have don't have Greeks. Second, the paradoxes. Seven hundred? How much is it? Synthrakis said it in detail. And third, it's the tests. You know, I'll say it and take it down the river. Don't you do such tests to the Greeks? Make such a sample and bring them to give such exams to go to 70% of the lessons you say, history, institutions and so on. How many will pass? Remember what they wrote? "Who downloaded the flag from the Acropolis?", "Gletzos". Do you remember them? “What happened on 28 October?”, “The Revolution of 1821”. You have this education, this education - ingrainedness! If you put such criteria here with pan-Hellenic, etc., all right, in another situation where there would be special care for immigrants, for their children, etc., to learn to integrate, etc., one could see it, of course, in a more relaxed form. But with these, now what are you going to do? But if you can ask 70%! Get out and have a gulop with questions. Take off two, three workshops to ask the world, Greeks I mean "Adam Papadam". That's what we're saying. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Finally, Mr President, thank you very much - I will say one word: what is the objective for the officials of the public administration, etc., which is achieved first of all by the escalation of the interview? We understand that. It wants the government - and not only this one - to build a state mechanism, not a party - which is the tricks you say, they hide the reality - to build staff not only to serve the public administration, who believe in this policy, namely privatisation, the private initiative, the privileges of capital, in order to be integrated. That's why any government is doing this. The issue is who they serve, which state they want to build: the state that serves the citizen or the state that serves the interests of capital? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Mr Tsiaras has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor because three amendments have been tabled concerning interventions either in electoral law or in the interests of election. I think that at such a critical moment, in fact on the next day of a development which, more or less all of the political system, all the political parties welcomed as a victory for democracy, we should at least be seriously serious and not simply attempt to put forward proposed amendments, which not only have ground, not only do they really regulate this issue, but unfortunately there are many problems, because there are also legal problems, but also, I would say, problematic, I would say, provisions. The SYRIZA amendment is truly amazing. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I move forward to your ability to change yourself at this speed and to transfer yourself to a reality that you yourself have changed. I don't know if it was Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Paradisepoulou, two former justice ministers of the previous government, but I will tell you that at least those of you who had the opportunity to see, despite the fact that we are actually talking about intervention in electoral law and not in the Criminal Code, could easily see - Mr. Xanthopoulou, why didn't you sign it? - that on the basis of Article 51(3) of the Constitution, where there is no irrevocable criminal conviction, no such issue arises. So, to understand, what amendment have you tabled? As far as KINAL is concerned, I imagine that he has tried to follow developments and tabled another amendment, which talks about the exclusion of parties and candidates, and this is to be judged by the Marios Ice. Ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, you know that we are not in the debate judging by the Marios Ice the possibility of candidates, whether parties or even individuals. In any case, I would like you to bear in mind that no elections will be held tomorrow. There is a commitment from the Prime Minister that the elections will be held at the end of the government term. So there's no such matter. As far as your amendment is concerned, there is, of course, the same subject as Article 51 of the Constitution, according to which, once again, if there is no irreversible criminal conviction, there cannot be the coma. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I'm going back to you. It is truly impressive that even in the proposed amendment - and this really is something I cannot understand - you are putting the burden on the failure to complete the work and the framework that would allow the institution to continue in the new form. Well, do you write these? We were not the ones we complained about, why one day before the Greek Parliament closed down, did you vote for a Criminal Code that should have the consent of all political parties? We have not told you all of this, that there are consequences and, of course, there is a call for the better law that will apply no matter what happens? Do you understand why I am talking about pretexts and not real amendments? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But what I want to say to you is that for us it has been a very important issue that has concerned us from the start. And I'm going to answer Mr. Paphie for asking why we didn't do it when we made some changes to the Criminal Code. Those were urgent changes with which we had to regulate and deal with the issues of terrorism, the issues of penalties for people who have to stay in prison for a long time. From there, however, you should remember that we set up the Monitoring Committee on the Criminal Code and one of the first topics we have raised was whether or not it should be a serious penalty or a criminal organisation to continue with the deprivation of civil rights. And I assure you that in my communication with several members of the committee, with excellent joint acceptance scientists, everyone has told me that in their discussions it is in favour of reintroducing these arrangements, on the basis of what was the case in the previous Criminal Code. Who, therefore, was raped and who created data in Greek society by voting in an unjustified way and also by applying an unjustified new Criminal Code, I think it is in the Greek citizens' judgment, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. One would expect at least seriously and responsibly on a crucial issue which has been of concern to all of us, the whole political system, the entire democratic arc of the Greek Parliament, to be able to stand with the same seriousness and responsibility. But it seems that this remains a mere wish. Obviously, as you can see, these amendments cannot be incorporated into such a logic. A comprehensive, sound regulation will come through the proposal made by the Monitoring Committee for the Criminal Code, along with other arrangements in a relatively short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u356	Mr Ragossi, I will give you the floor, but you should know that you have also taken the time of your tritology. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u357	For one, two minutes, Mr. President. First, Minister of Justice, you do not know what you are reading. So next time you will be referring to written texts, please, be much more careful. The amendment we have tabled is obviously tabled in combination with Article 51(3) of the Constitution and obviously any provision chosen and voted on by the Greek Parliament does not mention the provision of the Constitution to which it falls at any time. That's the one. So all that reasoning you have said, at least as far as our amendment is concerned, is nowhere to be founded. Secondly, don't say that. We realized that since the morning the government has become a different position, the Minister, another position of the State Secretary, another position you tonight. You've become above it. So do not go on with some unacceptable arguments. You're a Minister of Justice. You have been against this new Criminal Code several times too. You have brought in two changes to this Criminal Code and you have not brought in on this matter. But to get his property back, the Guardian, Minister of Justice, brought a change in the new Criminal Code. That's why for the Golden Dawn you didn't know how to bring!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u359	I shall conclude, Mr President. And I come to something last and maybe more serious. Take note of what the Minister for Justice announced, dear colleagues, a moment ago. He announced that the deprivation of civil rights for the Golden Dawn criminals, according to the verdict of the Greek court, will be done by means of an amendment to the Criminal Code. That's what he said a moment ago. If that is the case, Minister, then it will mean that it does not include the gold-gold criminals, because there cannot be retrospective power in the criminal law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u360	Luckily, you understood it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u361	That is why three parties, with the first of us, when the rest of us were shouting, said that there is now one way to change electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u362	Please, Mr Ragosi, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u363	Finally, because I see that you have taken the time to speak, I warn you about one thing: do not go further, because by modifying the Criminal Code and reintroducing the earlier provision, the golden people will not be deprived of their political rights. This can only happen with such amendments that change the electoral law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u366	You, Mr. Kegeroglu, as what do you want to talk about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u367	As a movement of change, Mr President. I'll get you the replacement paper if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u368	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u369	This is the first time, of course, that the government has come to argue against amendments which it does not accept. This is the first time in 15 months. It will therefore be good to see that for all the amendments tabled at least from now on, that is to say, to hear the reason for the rejection. Minister, it is true that the amendment to the Criminal Code - and neither does SYRIZA - have any doubts about this - is the reason why the court could not decide to remove civil rights. That is foreseeable, and they themselves admit it. The question is that in the amendment you brought to the Criminal Code and once you say that it is not about electoral law, you should have restored it, regardless of the fact that it would not apply in the case of Golden Dawn because, as Mr Theodorikos quite rightly said, the phenomenon of fascism, Nazism, racism and all crimes is not just Golden Dawn. Maybe we've got more phenomena. So don't say again that we didn't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u371	And I close with this, Mr President. Our amendment has a substantial difference in relation to the amendments tabled by the other parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u372	I know her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u373	In the core relative to faces, most of all everyone is a general care. The parties don't mention anything! The parties, which, gentlemen, are involved in criminal organisations that have been suffering criminal organisations, will be able to participate in elections? I didn't see you say anything about it. Place yourself, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Please bring me the replacement paper. The Minister has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u375	It is really worth wondering how the SYRIZA's party continues to support such a argument. Mr Ragosi, do you not know that even if we changed this provision with the changes we made in November in the Criminal Code, would the law still apply? You don't know that? Who are you kidding? When I say that your attitude is hypocritical and you force me to raise tons, this is proven not by common sense, but by anyone who knows the procedure. So what are we talking about, so I can understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u376	What if you change her now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u377	Listen. If at some point we are not serious in this Chamber, so that we can support the reality that exists in its full dimension, and we are simply mocking ourselves to demonstrate our sensitivity backwards, we obviously have neither responsibility nor serve Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u378	That is the answer to what you said earlier. You said you were going to change the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u379	I didn't interrupt you. I have listened with great patience to all that you have said, despite the fact that I have been totally opposed. I have the impression that at least the proper parliamentary function must impose the same attitude on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u380	Please, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u381	In order to finish this, however, you are the ones who, by changing the Penal Code, gave this 'window'. You are the ones who, despite being in the position of the defendant of all the political parties at the time, did nothing to hear our warnings and you are the ones who are again being hypocritically supposed to suggest something that you know that even now happens, is not the case because the most favourable law is in force and there is a conflict with Article 51 of the Constitution. So you know very well that whatever we are talking about at the moment is about impressions and not about the substance. I say this because I repeat to you that we have been serious and responsible since the first moment on this issue with the establishment of the Criminal Code Monitoring Committee. Look, all these excuses that it is actually about electoral law should be dismantled, because you know very well - at least the lawyers in this Chamber know this very well - that they are engaged with many criminal provisions. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] So we need to know what we're talking about. It's nothing that can stand alone. I say this because I repeat once again that it is very easy for the representatives of the parties to be in Parliament's Chamber and in a very simple way to come and propose any regulation. If this regulation actually conflicts with an article in the Constitution or with the logic of the better law, you understand that it is only for impressions rather than for substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u382	Mr. Synthrakis has asked for the floor, and he will bring me the replacement paper. Please, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor. You will also be responsible for a little bit of a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u383	Mr President, we have tabled an amendment which is very specific and clear. We accept what you said in relation to Article 51 of the Constitution for irrevocableness. However, I would like to raise another point. As far as the discount is concerned, there is no constitutional part. Therefore, what is the reason why you should not accept what we have set out in both the second and third paragraphs? And we ask you to put yourself on this. If, therefore, there is no constitutional emblem, then there is no reason why you should not accept it. So take a seat for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u384	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u385	Mr Colleagues, I said something earlier that I do not know whether it was understood. I guess I need to say it many times, because replay helps. One is that we have a conflict with Article 51 of the Constitution, which also relates to your amendment. The second is that even if we consider that we are going to take part in the electoral law in the 'Administrative' - in introductory terms - in law, this intervention is to know that many articles in the Criminal Code also have to be changed. It's not that simple. There is work that has been done systematically and persistently for months and on this matter. I repeat it's not that simple. That is why I would say that we must at least show seriousness and responsibility for the next day, which has proved a great deal. I think we should be united in keeping with the democratic arc of the parties that are in the Greek Parliament so that it can build the next day in terms and rules of real security, real transparency. We have our ideological differences, which I think are respected, but from there on there there are some things that we should naturally all agree on. Last day was a great lesson for all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Ioannis Bougas from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u387	I would just like to say a few words. I would like to go on to say the following: First of all, the amendment of the Movement of Change with the amendment of the SYRIZA cannot be judged in the same way in constitutional terms. They have differences. I think that what we need to keep is the will of the government, as expressed by the relevant Minister a moment ago, to resolve this issue. This is a distortion, but I will not repeat how and under whose responsibility it was created. However, it is the government's will to provide a solution. And a solution will be found, but with a study and a legislative intervention, which will remain constitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u388	This is Mr. Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u389	Mr. Ragossi, you have either not understood or understood and you do not understand. The amendment you bring is not a simple complement to the electoral legislation. It is obviously an amendment which is manifestly unconstitutional, because it is contrary to the spirit, but above all to the letter of Article 51(3). And the question is this: did you know it and bring it in or ignore the constitutional arrangements, and to create impressions, you have submitted it today and while they have convinced you - why do I think you are convinced - of the unconstitutionality of your intervention - you continue to support it? Correcting the error with an obsession with the mistake, this, if you'll excuse me, is unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u390	The procedure is completed. Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor. Unfortunately, we will also be patient with the MPs now. Parliamentary Representatives and Ministers will be patient for MPs as well. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr President. I would like your tolerance for two minutes to refer to the amendment I tabled. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in 2013 the New Democracy Government, with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, and with the contribution of the then Minister for the Protection of Citizens of Nikos Dendias, gathered and sent to the public prosecutor the pleas that were initiated by the lawsuits and finally led, in the New Democracy Government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in yesterday's historic decision of justice, a decision - victory of the entire constitutional arch. I welcome this decision and I hope that democracy will always have the means to isolate and eliminate everything that threatens it. It is good to be united today and let SYRIZA try to divide and blur water, because he knows well that at his own risk today, the provisions on depriving political parties and stricter penalties cannot be applied to the condemned of Golden Dawn. As far as the draft law we are discussing today is concerned, it introduces procedures for transparency, objectivity, isopoliticalism and isopoliticalism in the processes of naturalisation. The yield of Greek citizenship cannot be lightly made of the heart. It must be ensured that anyone who wants to be called "Greek" must, in practice, prove that he wants it and that he deserves it. He must embrace the principles and values built by the Greek nation, adopt political and legal culture, culture, customs and culture. All these conditions are set and controlled by this bill through written Panelladic type examinations in the language, history, geography and other basic principles that haunt Greekness. At the same time, it shall be checked whether the candidate participates smoothly and regularly in political, social and economic life. Of course, all of this presupposes that the candidate has all the necessary supporting documents, which the state is asking for anyway. So we have a double profit. There are safeguards as to who is entitled to be called Greek, but at the same time, basic functions of the state are also being improved to put an end to long delays. So far, nineteen committees have been considering - at best - three and a half to four thousand per year. That is how we arrived in 2019 to receive fifty thousand applications in total pending for all three categories mentioned earlier by the Minister. Among these applications there are applications from people who deserve Greek citizenship while staying in Greece and who have been committed to Greek society. For these cases, including children born here and in Greek schools, two new addresses are being set up, one in Attica and one in Macedonia, and for these children in particular, naturalisation processes are being further simplified. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a special reference to the provision of Article 29 for the extension of the three thousand, about, workers in the 'House Help' programme. These people have been serving for seventeen to eighteen years for twenty - twenty thousand of our fellow humans, and their services have proved to be overpriced in the pandemic. Our Government, guaranteeing the continuation of the "Help at Home" programme, gives a definitive end to the anxiety of these workers and the thousands of beneficiaries. It extends, and even with retroactive effect from 1 October, its contracts until the final lists of nominations of the nominations of the nominations of 4K/2020 are published. The most important thing, however, is in itself the notice of the normal, definitive recruitment of workers to the posts they have been serving for so many years. I would also like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Health, which compresses the times of the last notice for the recruitment of permanent doctors. This way Lefkada will also get the doctors who have been announced much earlier in order to gradually begin to meet the many and great needs that exist at the General Hospital of Lefkada. I would also like to refer to some of the provisions concerning local government agencies. The provisions codifying the powers of the economic committees of the municipalities restore governance to the municipalities. The uninterrupted implementation of the mere analogues threatened to dismantle many municipalities and regions. We're fixing that. We are clear about the role of the Economic Committee and the Committee on Quality of Life, and we are basically restoring the functionality and effectiveness of local government. Substantial support for municipalities is also the possibility for mayors’ advisers and scientific associates to draw up studies or tender documents for municipal projects. This will be beneficial, especially in small municipalities that do not have technical services. I would also like to dwell on Article 46, which enables, among other things, regions and island municipalities to provide free accommodation and feeding to medical, paramedical and nursing staff, security bodies and assistant teachers and teachers who provide service in their areas of jurisdiction. I would like to thank and congratulate the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, but also Mr Livanios, for accepting my request to withdraw the original population restriction of the eighteen thousand inhabitants and to open this possibility for Lefkada as well as for other islands. I would like to say a few words about the amendment I tabled with a special number of 63 and a general number of 507. It concerns development agencies and networks of municipalities and regions whose role in promoting development is upgraded to enable them to participate in the development policies and programmes of the Public Investment Programme, State aid and co-financed programmes. Cities can now become partners in the LAG, with the aim of assisting local government's work and improving the absorption of all resources that will flow into our country over the next few years. It will of course be a condition for them to be registered. In view of the 72 billion of the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF, we want to mobilise as many forces as possible so that this money is not lost. We are all very well aware of the difficulties in absorbing previous NSRPs. A large part of these difficulties is caused by strangles which do not allow operators such as the networks of municipalities and regions to participate in the preparation of studies and in the implementation of projects in general. In conclusion, I would like to say that this obstacle is lifted by the amendment that I tabled and paves the way for major projects in the Greek region, which so much needs infrastructure, growth and jobs. Please, Minister, make it acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u393	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we lived a historic moment yesterday, the institutional condemnation of neonazism, the victory of democracy, respect for justice. It has therefore been shown that the institutions are guardians of democracy. But fascism, ladies and gentlemen, does not end. History has shown that it can and can be regenerated. The far right will exist. And let us not laugh, the extremist voices, the supranationalist ideas that fight the different will continue to exist with or without the Golden Dawn. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for the world community, Orban and Bolsonar are developing new rhetoric hatreds in our societies. In the face of all these people yesterday, Greek democracy stood up. Yesterday, all the citizens of the democratic arch as a fist were waiting for the verdict of justice so that democracy would have won. And that's what happened. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are all still in debt and I would say to the Greek Parliament that the temple of democracy, the Greek Parliament, will no longer live in such cases and we will not see the scope of a criminal organization in the Greek Parliament again. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the Change Movement, the PASOK, were neither in the squares nor in the streets with the Golden Dawn. We in the period 2009-2011 were fighting for democracy within the Parliament to keep the country up, so that Greece would not go bankrupt and Greece would be today when the other political parties were in the Constitution as an anti-immemorandum voices. Of course, they then found the way to realism and followed us. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, why all the truths should be told that the SYRIZA - ANEL government in 2019, when it voted for the Penal Codes, was the government that changed the sentences regarding the establishment and establishment of a criminal organisation. He changed the sentences from ten to twenty years in five to fifteen, at the same time abolishing the provision of deprivation of civil rights. The SYRIZA - ANEL government had the opportunity to root out the enclaves of fascism. He didn't do it. Let the fascism egg incubate. That's it for us not to forget. In fact today Mr. Kontonis, former Minister of Justice, is leaving the Central Committee of SYRIZA by denouncing. The conclusions, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are yours. I'm coming over to the bill. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 4604/2019 in that matter has never been applied. The change of government continued to apply the law of PASOK 3838/2010, as was the case before the law of SYRIZA. However, the Committees on naturalisation have been failing. Instead of addressing these weaknesses, the government has preferred to put a new system of naturalization to the vote, which will apply even since April 2021, with thirty thousand outstanding applications on its back. It is a system that neither simplifies nor naturally combats bureaucracy. In this context, we, the Change Movement, tabled a package of fifteen points aimed at speeding up the processing of outstanding applications. The aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to create a legal framework in the spirit of Law 3838/2010, even more functional and modern, but with real quality and transparency guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, we must make it clear that with the bill, speeding up the process of naturalisation is referred to the bells, since the services after 1 April 2021 are suspended until further notice. At the same time, income criteria are introduced and each candidate must have an annual income of at least equal to the annual earnings of the unskilled worker. These criteria, Mr Minister, exclude a large number of candidates and affect many who have already applied. Let me note that thirty thousand applications will be judged with the new system that will take effect from April 2021. I come to the second chapter of the draft law on the selection of administrations in the public sector. They are constantly reducing, Minister, the qualifications required so that one can be chosen to be responsible in the public sector. You're always pulling down the bar, I'd say. The requirement of being a graduate was abolished so that a retired person could become director of a Minister's office. I would remind you that the required qualifications for the SPS commander have been reduced so that the party proposal can easily pass through. And now you're reducing the qualifications that one needs to have to be chosen in a public body position. You are therefore subject to five years' experience in the public or private sectors. Here, Minister, should be expected to hold grade I or II, i.e. the rating rather than the pre-service. We say: Transparency, clarity, merit everywhere. We also disagree with the new possibilities that you give the posters. It is not possible, Minister, for post-mortem officials to replace public services. I come to the amendment on sports clubs. You first allow municipalities to grant and take over the costs of traveling sports clubs and clubs, but up to 30 June 2021. A question arises here: Why so narrow time margins and even in the midst of a crisis? Also, following on from the last Sports Bill, it is foreseen that sports clubs which do not have a special athletic recognition and are not registered in the General Secretariat of Sports register will not be able to use local self-government sports facilities. They will also not be able to conclude programme contracts with public bodies. Our position is clear. The register of sports operators should be open and should not be used as a criterion for exclusion from antiquities, as well as for the use of sports facilities. Besides, I would say that this is a reasonable question: How will the clubs be active in order to get the special athletic recognition if they do not have time to train? Sporting clubs need support and immediately to subsidise and grant them. To conclude, I will say that we have tabled an amendment specifically concerning the extension of the "Help at Home" programme and workers' contracts until 31 December 2021, with the exception of those recruited until then through the ADP. Minister, you must make it acceptable. I close with the amendment that we tabled to exclude from electoral procedures those who were convicted as members of a criminal organisation and of crimes against the democratic culture. We, ladies and gentlemen, are of course not only talking about persons, but also about parties associated with criminal organisations. It is not possible for parties that are urging criminals to come to a verdict. Since we have seen the controversy of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, it would be a good thing, Mr Ministers who are absent at the moment, to adopt our amendment. Our amendment must be adopted because it is also a common belief from everyone. So let us learn from the mistakes of the past and let us leave the enemies of democracy definitively on the sidelines. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to close, since I am from an ideological cause and have served this area with consistency and stability, to say: I cannot see, Mr Ragossi, your cynicism, as I saw in the morning, so I would like to remind you of this in connection with the credibility: "STAR" of Central Greece, September 2017, Yiannis Ragosis: "Tsipras and SYRIZA are responsible for sitting in the memoranda". "Tsipras, however, made speeches in favour of the interlocutory". "Tsipras cannot negotiate. He needs another leadership." "Those who go from PASOK to SYRIZA do it for seven thousand." "If Tsipras had values, he would not make the extreme right-wing Kammenos partner." "Tsipras is an opportunistic, self-helpful and self-interested opportunist." Ladies and gentlemen, take your conclusions on credibility and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u394	Thank you. Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President. It is very important that the Minister for Justice has given adequate answers to the amendment of the Officerial Response. However, what we could reasonably ask ourselves is why, in the last few months, two relevant bills have been discussed in the House, one for the Criminal Code and one for the electoral law, because SYRIZA did not then submit a relevant proposal, a relevant amendment, in order to follow a careful, serious consultation. The answers are self-evident. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a very important bill from the Ministry of the Interior, which includes a series of interventions aimed, on the one hand, at strengthening the effectiveness and impartiality of the process of naturalisation and, on the other, at strengthening the development prospects of local societies and, on the other, at alleviating the adverse effects of the koruna pandemic. I'm focusing on specific themes. With the proposed bill, the government dares to introduce major changes in the top process of naturalisation, with as its main concern ensuring transparency, quality and efficiency, even if the Civic Opposition is trying to create impressions. What I want to point out is that the arrangements were based on the report of the National Transparency Authority. The main innovation is that interviews are replaced and written examinations are established in their place. Candidates will be examined in Greek, Greek, history, geography, culture and institutions of our culture in order to obtain the relevant certificate of adequacy of knowledge, which will be a prerequisite for the submission of the application for naturalisation. In other words, an objective and imprecise evaluation system is being adopted, which is sure to speed up the examination of applications for naturalisation which could have been up to six years. Then I will focus on the fundamental provision of Article 29 of the fifth chapter, which extends the duration of the "Home Help" programme. The deposit by the Ministry of Legislative Improvement, which extends the duration of the contracts until the final tables of the relevant notice are published, but also the retroactive effect of the provision as from 1 October 2020, ensures that the employees will normally continue to offer their services to our fellow citizens who need them, to our citizens in the remote areas, and that there will be no gaps for even one day. Also, very important for the support of the Greek region is the provision of Article 46, which enables mountain and island municipalities, their legal persons and regions to provide free feeding and accommodation to medical, paramedical and nursing staff of the health centres of the public hospitals, the staff of the EKAB, the staff of the Greek Police, the Port Authority, the Firehouse, the assistants of primary and secondary education, and the staff seconded to these services. This provision, on the one hand, gives workers an important incentive, in particular that of free accommodation, in order to choose to work in remote areas and, on the other, enables them to serve their basic services other than education, health, public policy and security. Here the deposit of the relevant legislative improvement is crucial, as it abolished the population limit on island municipalities and included the regions, so that they could benefit even more regions in the country that need it. Such legislative initiatives are really essential, as they give solutions to one of the most important problems faced by our country, the desertification of the Greek region, and they must be a guide to such legislation, so that our young people, the most dynamic part of our society, in the province, in the Greek region, in particular. In conclusion, Mr Ministers, I would like to congratulate the Ministry's leadership on the amendment concerning renting of buildings in the local government and school canteens. The incorporation of the undertakings concerned into the provisions for the payment of reduced rents responds to a legitimate request from the persons affected. Also, in the same positive direction is the arrangement for the possibility of partial payment of any rent due. These provisions will give a significant breath to the owners of the canteens who have suffered enormous damage from the pandemic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. At this point, however, Mr Ministers, may I point out that it is not expressly stated in the second paragraph of the amendment if the 40% reduction in school-bed rent is in addition to the 40% of the first paragraph. It is not expressly specified in the provision. Also, with the provision you give the discretion to the municipal councils to decide on a 40% reduction. Yes, but on the other hand, we realise that the self-government of the municipalities must also be taken into account, but on the other hand, one municipality may appear in one county, in a regional section, to approve a 40% reduction and the other may not approve. Perhaps it would be right to provide that, if there is a negative decision of a municipal council, it should bear a special statement of reasons. In addition, the arrangement to prolong leases as an arrest is a fair idea. However, as is the case with the provision, it favours the rentals of school beds which expired on 30-6-2020. Not all cases are treated as such on equal terms. For reasons of equality, you should perhaps consider extending all contracts, irrespective of the period of expiry of each of them. Finally, Mr Ministers, and because I know that you will see this with the same sensitivity and in the same context, and given that the CFP is perhaps the only companies throughout the country that have remained and still remain completely closed today because of the pandemic, it will be fair to have relevant legislative care to get rid of the obligation to pay rents. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis himself, the leadership of the Ministry of Interior, is in constant dialogue with society and the institutional representatives of local government, particularly in view of the unprecedented conditions due to the pandemic and are constantly seeking effective solutions, which aim, on the one hand, to the development prospects of local government, which is the key to the revitalization of local communities, but also to solutions to the daily problems of our fellow citizens and, on the other, to the current draft law, which I am voting in favour of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u396	Now Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u397	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law which should normally have drawn up the lights of publicity, especially after yesterday's historic decision to condemn the Golden Dawn, one year after the verdict of the Greek people, who threw the neo-nazis out of Parliament. Greek justice, Greek democracy, showed their strength. Golden Dawn has been thrown into the basket of history and its protagonists will be found where they are fit in prison. However, the fight against fascism and neo-naziism is lasting, and what we all have to understand is that, where populism, division, hate rhetoric, where the political system fails to resolve, then these extreme voices are oxygenated. Going now to today's, in this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, the way in which Greek citizenship is awarded to foreigners is a very serious, very important issue. We live together with our migrant fellow citizens, which is an integral part of our society. At the end of 2009, in difficult times for the country, PASOK dared. It has changed the philosophy of citizenship. He put it in the light, brought rules. The concentration, the opacity that existed before they retreated before the rule of law. I think we all remember very well. It was then that the slogans "you will never be Greek" or "Greek you are born, you cannot be" dominated by the right-wing party. Extremely reasonable, rhetoric from all the then "right building" were very intense. But then we have endured and today I can say that we have won. Much of what we were saying at the time today is self-evident and that is a very big profit. Nobody dares to hurt the second generation kids anymore. Everyone thinks and say that a system is needed, on the principles of the rule of law, for the performance of citizenship to those who want it and want to try to do so. But unfortunately, with today's bill, we have a setback. The rhetoric, of course, even the New Democracy's logic in nothing reminds us in 2010, but the draft law that we are discussing today on the side road, through the administrative road, essentially breaks down what we have built with effort. And of course, it's worth reference that SYRIZA also helped you. I'm explaining. The plan of the current leadership of the Ministry is a different version of Law4604 that SYRIZA voted for in 2019. We had disagreed on that. We had voted against it, making two main objections. One concerned the degradation of the spirit of Law 3838/2010, which essentially transformed the whole system into a procedure for examinations and the other concerned the administrative preparedness of the Ministry to implement the new system. We said that everything that was anticipated could not be implemented quickly, since the transition from one administrative procedure to another is in no way easy. SYRIZA then believed that it was enough to legislate on a law to implement it. The question, however, is how to implement a law when you do not have adequate staffed services. How can you expect this when instead of simplifying procedures, you increase the administrative burden? The New Democracy then, of course, had a loose counterpopulation, did not strongly disagree and showed that it was basically in agreement. What for? Because very simply these changes were in a conservative direction. The main issue that should concern governments that have managed citizenship is just one, ladies and gentlemen, and it is delays. The Minister told the committee that there are requests from citizens via the clientele at the ministerial offices, at the parliamentary offices for the award of citizenship. We all know that and we agree. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. But what the Minister has not told us is what these people are usually called for. The Minister told us there's corruption around citizenship. On what exactly, though? Well, to say things the way they are, the main source of customer logic and corruption is the delays of management. The inconceivable is that the political leadership is whistling indifferently and charging the delays and corruption to officials, who are literally spitting blood to keep the services upright and, on the other hand, concealing their own responsibilities. A characteristic example of delay I will tell you from my own constituency, the western Athens, but also, if you like, the old second district of Athens. At the moment, 2019, you know which date requests were being examined? As of 2014. I wonder, Minister, today that has arrived in a process? Have you been in 2015? We need a simple question - an answer so that we can understand exactly where we are. The law, ladies and gentlemen, essentially concerns people who live on average 15 years in the country, and these people despite the fact that they pay in return paradoxically that they are actually trying to take part in this process, have no respect and no return to services. So the solution is simple, it is very simple, essentially more committees of naturalisation to correspond to the number of candidates. What you are doing, however, Minister, is, in fact, changing the same procedure with regard to simply who will do the job, transfer it to the officials of the Secretariat-General who are recommended and you want to show us that this is supposedly indivisible, or that is allegedly transparent. However, the papers will continue to go to ministerial and parliamentary offices and, unfortunately, to people who will be waiting for a decade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In closing, Minister, you still have time to change critical elements of your proposal and make it more effective and sustainable. Bring in a system that you want, unless your political strategy is the collapse of the citizenship process to suspend this function for a long time and return by the side road to his logically "you will never be Greek". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u398	Now Mr. Vernardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u399	Well, because the time has passed, and I think we are all tired of attending this interesting meeting, I will put three points to the debate. Unfortunately, they relate to the presence of the two Ministers. I feel they're not touching too much, even though they're in the bill. Let's start with the first one. I read a phrase that I liked a moment ago: "Comparing to the invisible hundred and fifty molotovs sabotage in Evros of 1965 was a brilliant discovery". This, of course, refers to the dear Minister of Citizen Protection, who yesterday, despite the fact that we have an unnecessarily attack - forty seconds after the announcement of the Golden Dawn ruling as a criminal organisation - of MATs at the anti-fascist gathering that is outside the courts. Or there is a political order, which I cannot honestly believe, or the Minister does not control the deep state within the police. But in both cases there is enormous political responsibility. And, of course, at the moment, the request which exists, which is growing and heard, is the request for his resignation. Extreme maybe, but that's the way it is right now. But what makes it even worse is the fact that he invents the answer of a hundred fifty molotovs who cause the attack of the MATs. I think we're lost in the translation of the state of service. Like losers in the translation of the state of staff, it is the second point I want to tell you. I'm going to read something to you and tell me how it relates, Minister and Minister, dear, to your bill. ‘The organisation and functioning of the bodies of central government and of legal persons supervised by them under public law, other than independent authorities, shall be determined by bodies established, replaced or amended by a Ministerial Decree, etc.’. Does that remind you of anything? It's Article 20 of the Final State Act. And for once, we are here in the difficult process of legislating, not only you, we need to recognize other ministries, the Ministry of Immigration, the Ministry of Culture, all the Ministries and the Ministry of Interior, of course, for the many years, it legislates for: the establishment of the Directorate-General for Citizenship and the underlying organic units. Structure of a General Secretariat of Citizenship and a stand-alone Departments of Monitoring and Evaluation of Organic Units. Establishment of new Regional Directorates and so on. So why does not all this go through from a modernization of the organisation and from the constitutional control that is necessary and which is clearly defined by the law on the final state? We are here, too, lost in the translation of the state of service, it is obvious. And at some point, we have said this on several occasions, and we hope that Mr Gerapetti will come and explain exactly what is happening with this state of affairs. And get to the third point and I'll finish. The question of the selection of public administration officials. I do not know whether or not you, as ministers and as Minister and State Secretary, have the primary legislative initiative or has it by the Minister of State. I don't know that. However, I would like to point out to you that we have made many steps behind the objective of modernising and dismantling public administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] First of all, only the heads of legal persons governed by public law, bodies or boards? Law No.4369, our law of the colonisation of the public administration said "all the board of directors", which is why it set up the Register of Executive Officers as a pool of public sector officials in principle so that it can draw the high-qualified civil servants there in order to choose that structure. What do we got here? We only have a choice for the heads. The remaining members of the boards of directors, which are often also on a small payroll, are chosen without conditions, without qualifications and without procedures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, a very serious issue, for which we are going back. Conflict of interest. You also have the choice of private sector workers. But here we may have a problem of conflict of interest. It's a rhetorical question I'm going to ask you. Why would a member of a multinational pharmaceutical company be interested in running the Pharmacos Agency, for example? And if he was interested, shouldn't the public interest be making these filters before and after, as is happening all over the world? The law on 'due to conflicts of interest' abolished it in full by the law of the executive state. And while today you are reintroducing this process of choice from the private sector, this dimension you have forgotten. Third matter. At the time of the posts, Mr.4369 said: 'There is an agreement on commitments to the action programme established with quantitative and qualitative objectives, with a breakdown after the end of the term, with economic and social and environmental evaluations and so on'. In other words, there was a kind of contract between the State and the administration, which was undertaken to run this public undertaking, the public body. That goes beyond here. There is no provision, no commitment to this issue. I think we're going back, so. I do not know if you are concerned with this matter, or if Mr Gerapitris is again in charge of this piece of legislation, which we believe is a bad piece of legislation. And, of course, I hope that when - as he has announced and when he comes here to the House to bring us the new law on the final state - we have the opportunity to discuss it more thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u400	Thank you. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u402	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u403	Just one second, Mr. Mulkiotis. Because Mrs Lykoulis made a comment on the amendment to the Change Movement, which was accepted by the Minister, corrects the word "People with Special Needs" to "People with Disabilities", for the standard. It is the amendment accepted by the Minister for Precision and Claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u404	Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u405	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was a special day for our country. It was a day when Greek justice gave a clear message not only in the country, not only in Europe, but throughout the world. The judiciary judgement on the character of the Golden Dawn was clearly expressed. The institutions have proved to have the potential to support democracy at all times. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is another concrete demonstration of the way in which the New Democracy is dealing with its own, clear direction towards maintenance. If any element is completely missing from the provisions of the Legislation on citizenship, I have the opinion that it is empathy. I do not know if there is any plan in the minds of the legislators that I cannot fully understand. Or better I don't want to believe. With the provisions you bring, you create problems that are essentially problems of credibility of the Greek state. We are discussing something very important that has gone too far in the media. We have not seen a particular article and we have not seen any particular public debates. It wasn't even discussed in society. There were no tensions like in the past when we discussed citizenship in the Greek Parliament. This bill, Minister, is a step on what the SYRIZA - ANEL government voted for in spring 2019. You guys keep going the same way. With the system you propose, you are blocking the road to many of our fellow immigrants who would like to become Greek citizens. I'll reduce the number of people applying from now on. It will initially be reduced because no one today knows what to do to gain Greek citizenship. But this is the transitional stage. The worst thing that happens with the proposed provisions is that the conditions for obtaining Greek citizenship for tens of thousands of people who have submitted their applications for years and exclusively under the responsibility of the state have not yet been examined. Employers who in recent years have been finding less work. They're fired for a number of reasons that hit them like the pandemic. Working with a bachelor, people who retired. These will not all get citizenship under the income and labour conditions set by the Ministry's proposal, of course. You're changing the rules in the middle of the game. After the Greek State received a paradox of 550 or 700 euros, you lead them to automatic rejection by a three-line law. How can we say that, Minister? Because there's definitely a continuity of the narrative. It's not you. Some of them. You don't legislate in the blank. There is continuity for the commander and the commander must trust the state. Unfortunately, this is not the case in our case. You understand the issues you are creating. The time will come when the applicants migrants will well understand the injustice that is now being created. What will you say, Minister, to a worker from the affected 'January' regions who has to fight the catastrophic consequences? What will you say, Minister, in the midst of a pandemic to those who lost their job? What will you say, Minister, to women raising children? Some of them are also Greek citizens' wives. Over forty thousand foreigners are Greek wives. They raise children who are Greeks since birth. In my county, Boeotia, there are over three hundred such cases. There's a very serious issue. How is it done and why do you legislate? What's going on in this process? Why is there that void? We are talking today about citizenship which is the end of a long journey towards people living in our country for a long time, for decades. From the government's point of view, this has not been understood. She has in mind these newly invaded people in our country who are seeking asylum. In fact, the Minister, with horrors some time ago, hastened to change the legislation on the minimum period of previous residence required for recognizing refugees to lodge an application. It was three years and we went to seven. They met reactions from international organisations. But that has not affected anyone because it is obviously the opinion of the legislative proposal at conservative hearings. That is to say that every three or so years they talk about the Hellenisms of the parties, foreigners who alter the electorate and all that we all know very well. It's a clear propaganda of all that's incubated and the snake's egg. I'm pointing it out. We must take care of these things very much. Not twice the same mistake. One question that exists, Minister, is the statistics which are available in your services. Before changing the three years in seven years, how many recognised refugees had applied for naturalisation? And what was their average stay in our country? I know that although you are constantly talking about transparency, citizenship statistics are a seven-sealed secret to all of us. If you were to give this information, it would prove that you left the ready - to - do citizenship system that the previous government gave to collapse, probably. So, can I tell you what he's like? No new refugee is one of those who entered our country in 2014 and 2015. No one has applied. Nobody's getting citizenship. Meanwhile, one million foreigners in Germany have been through a six-hour integration programme for the past five years. For many of them, it was free of charge. The rest cost 2 euros. Why did Germany do this, ladies and gentlemen? We all understand why. The interest is two-sided. Why doesn't the Greek Government do it? Why don't you, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA when they were running money from the European Union for the refugee problem? But why doesn't your government do it today, Minister? Because both the previous government and you legislate the global originality of examinations on a subject in which there is no corresponding training programme. We must be serious about this. Language courses in foreigners in our country have been taking place since 2014. And we legislate other things. For the near future nothing has been announced yet. We put it as a precondition. It is certainly not a revolution we are asking for. It is what all the serious European states do regardless of what government they have. To this end, I hope that you will help us really to return to the tracks of seriousness that we all want. In this context, then, Minister, we ask you to take a first step in the amendment we tabled on 'Help at Home'. Mr Kegeroglu spoke in detail about the matter. Complete the step you've taken. Please accept completely the amendment to the Change Movement on this matter. Mr President, I would also like to conclude by referring to Amendment No 508 and to Amendment No 64, which refers to the blockades of election.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u406	Mr. Mulkiotis, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u407	I'm done. I say in particular, Mr President, that the amendment to the Change Movement has nothing to do with the other amendments. It is an amendment that refers to electoral law. It has nothing to do with the Criminal Code. To accept this amendment concerning electoral law in relation to the facilitation of persons convicted of participation in or an address of criminal organization and a ban on the proclamation of a party involving persons convicted of a felony against the democratic culture and public order. So let us do this, Mr Minister, and then amend the Criminal Code. It is not necessary to accept and amend electoral legislation because we need to change the Criminal Code well. We should change him later. But today it will also be a sign of writing to accept this amendment. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u408	I have the honour to announce number one. Page 128 11426/7810, from 8 October 2020, decision of the President of the Parliament on the creation of the Permanent Committees of the Parliament. This decision has been posted to Parliament's Transparency and will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the court's judgment in cases relating to the criminal activity of the Golden Dawn is historic. This is the condemnation of a criminal organization, which, with the cloak of a political party, a fascist party, committed crime. This conviction was made on the basis of concrete evidence of facts. This decision concerns not only the past year, but also the present and the future. It is a message for the activation of the whole society to address the ideas and practices of everyday fascism and, secondly, for the formation of an anti-fascist conscience and for strengthening the anti-fascist current that exists, as proved by yesterday's very large gathering outside the Court of Appeal which issued the decision. Because the fight against fascism is lasting. Let's come to the bill now. This is a multi-project. The fact that there is no central idea - starting with the bill is that there is no report on the principle. Another sign of misrepresentation by the perfect government of excellence. In addition, the consultation was introduced with much fewer articles than what was eventually submitted to the House. There is an important gap in the question of extending workers' contracts to the Home Aid Programme which expired on 30 September. You have delayed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, despite the fact that there was a ready institutional framework, and that the SYRIZA Government's notice is ready to recruit three thousand permanent staff, by way of derogation from the Memorandum of Recruitment Order, with care for increased moleculosis of the pre-service in order to ensure that staff who are already working in this programme are employed. I shall refer, for example, to four issues relating to the bill. The process of rendering citizenship is being modified, unfortunately, without dialogue with civil society, even with organisations which have been in serious trouble in this area for many years and which have not been included in the bodies that have been invited to be heard. In any case, there is a shift in the performance of Greek citizenship, since it becomes a privilege for a few people and people are excluded from the social and economic life of the country, as further obstacles are created in the process of naturalisation and some of the essential conditions to be met by foreigners in order to be naturalised. One of the criteria is income. You corrected it, you amended it, Minister. The income criterion is established as a presumption. However, the amount shall be fixed by decision of the Secretary-General responsible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The same applies, that is, to strengthen the criteria, to the benefit of a few and to increase the testometer, which is added to the paradox of naturalization, to make the process even more expensive and therefore problematic for those who have not. Now with regard to the changes envisaged in the process of selecting administrations in the public sector, I would say that it is the epitome of hypocrisy by the government. You are supposed to have provisions to be worthy while you have abolished the Register of Staff and, having arbitrarily and completely party-styledly placed administrations in many bodies in the public sector, who have not even had any minimum conditions. Within one year we have the full partyisation of the state and the restoration of the worst customer logic in the functioning of the public administration. So while integration is foreseen, the full term for all those who have appointed, a selection procedure is introduced with this bill, which will of course be applied in future. We'll see when. Which is hypocrisy! As time is limited, I would also like to refer to issues relating to self-government. In the regulations for self-government you continue, systemify and complete the institutional coup that started with the cancellation of the people's vote and as a result of the results of the regional and municipal elections on May 26, 2019, because their will, the will of the electorate did not coincide with the will of the New Democracy, under the guise of government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u412	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are therefore giving an absolute majority of the remit of the regional and mayor to the Economic Committee, which is supported by additional powers. The policy of the Government of New Democracy leads to extreme deterioration of regional and municipal councils, to the privatization of the actions of the EBRD, either through the delegation of all their programmes to the development agencies or through the delegation of contractual decision-making powers, which the Constitution must be permanent members of local government. Even the Scientific Service of this House calls for the provision to be supplemented, although the wording proposed, in my opinion, does not make it absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u413	Please, Mr. Comrade. You've reached eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u414	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just like the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u415	No, no one's been through eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u416	In particular, therefore, the economic committees of the municipalities and regions are granted the planning of recruitment of staff, the main competence of the municipal and regional councils and the objectives of the development agencies set up in February 2020 as legal entities of private law, to help the OTAs in their development activities and technical projects, and to provide general support for OTAs in the implementation of self-government powers are added. Finally, there is the provision for transferring decisive powers to contractors - I said it beforehand - of a certain amount of time, special co-operating poster, etc., even though decisions of the Council of State consider such powers illegal as contrary to Article 103 of the Constitution. You are abolishing the regional and municipal councils because it seems, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you are abstaining towards democracy and representativeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u417	Just, ladies and gentlemen, the next one will invoke the previous one on time, as you can see now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u418	There are not so many speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u419	Today we'll be done. Whatever happens, we'll be done today. Mrs Zetta Makri from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position today on the bill under discussion, I too would like to endorse what Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said in his public position yesterday on the Golden Dawn judicial decision. I'm completely covered in what he said. And I am very proud that the prosecution began at the Government of Samaras with the Minister of State, Mr. Treasury, and was completed with the Mitsotakis Government, even though in the interim some political groups played a delay in their own political interests, they were trying to postpone meetings to vote for the confiscated Members of the Golden Dawn. Later, they stated that all votes are the same and have no smell. I would also like to stress that it is the Act of Paradise which allows for the most favourable criminal treatment of the condemned. They will not even be punished as an incidental penalty for deprivation of civil rights, nor even for depriving them of office - one of course - only when the decision is irrevocable. The resounding resignation Near with reason and explanation is the best answer to the late democrats. The admission of Paradise that the arrangements are problematic and inappropriate is abstract for those who are stricken today attacking the New Democracy and its executives. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Interior raises an extremely serious and important issue concerning the hard core of our statehood: the question of the reform of the institutional framework for the administration of citizenship, particularly to foreigners, but also the issue of the need to redesign the process of naturalisation. This reform aims to put order and logic, as Mr Theodorikos rightly pointed out during the debate of the bill in the committee responsible, to modernise the existing institutional framework, to contribute to the objective, transparent and rapid administration of Greek citizenship to those who fulfil the legitimate conditions, to eliminate any sources of corruption, but also to neutralise customer relations. Before I place myself on the basic arrangements of the bill, I would commend the Ministry for introducing provisions that meet the conditions for the institutional relaunch of public administration, as well as for the development prospects and the proper functioning of local government, so that projects in the area of responsibility can finally be completed and the absorption of development funds strengthened. Equally important is the care for different professional groups, for example, the owners and workers in the canteens, particularly schools, who have been particularly affected by the effects of the health crisis. They also deserve interest in the employees of the “Help at Home” programme who, during self-determination, provided their services. The acceptance of almost all of the requests of the owners of the school canteens who requested arrangements to limit the impact of the pandemic on their activities is particularly honoured by the Ministry of Interior. It also shows that what is justified and substantiated is the Mitsotakis Government and is working on it and satisfying it. Ladies and gentlemen, the status of a person as a citizen is determined by nationality, that is to say by the legal bond between the citizen and the state in which he belongs. It is a very dynamic and at the same time negotiating concept. It is clear that it is not the right of the foreigner who is interested in naturalisation, but the sovereign competence of the state. It is therefore a privilege. It is its exclusive jurisdiction and is governed by its domestic law. In other words, the formation of citizenship legislation depends on the will of each state on the Sunday. It is up to the sovereign State to decide when and under which conditions foreigners living in that country will also acquire its nationality. The Greek state has dealt with the issues of citizenship as a result of the migration phenomenon, mainly in recent years. That is why, Mr Ministers, right, prudent and fair, you incorporate in your new legislative initiative the necessary arrangements, taking into account the critical moment we are debiting, the geographical area in which we live and the suggestions of the conclusion of the National Transparency Authority. In particular, a single universal-type system of written examinations with a bank of topics is being established. A certificate of competence for naturalisation is required. The option is to select an interview or written examination for the pending applications. The citizenship procedures shall be simplified and digitised. Two new regional thematic addresses are being established. Restructure the General Secretariat of Citizenship. So like all civilized peoples, we Greeks have traditions, history, institutions, structures, culture and a united bond between individuals and the state. This unified bond must also exist to those who are nationals of the state. It is, in other words, a link between the person and a particular state and the status of a person to be a member of the people of a particular state. The spirit of the legislative initiative that we are considering today is to address the serious problem of illegal immigration, but also to regulate the rights of a significant number of immigrants already living in the country. Human rights, demographic stagnation, social stability and security require this initiative so that there is a social balance in the country. The bill no doubt moves in this direction, serving the interests of society as a whole and building reliable relationships of trust between the state and the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u421	Thank you for the time too. Time must be maintained, as you understand. Try to be all in time. We're giving a short one-minute extension. Mr. Psychoeuu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it was indeed a very important day for democracy with the historic decision of the Court of Appeal uncovering the criminal organisation, the Nazi gang that had clothed the cloak of a political party, a decision that comes and stands in the bosom of the history of the Greek people with the national resistance, with the anti-diplomatic struggle, with the anti-fascist movement and its grand presence yesterday, despite the fact that it was blackened and shaded and deliberately dispersed with the disproportionate and mass use of violence, at the bosom of Magdas and the lawyers of political lawsuits and all those who supported them, in the bosom of democracy and the institutions that have deep roots in our country, in the bosom of all those who have taken a public place and have not hidden or washed the Golden Dawn, in the bourgeoisie of the people against his baries, who has not been vaccined against Phos. But, as other colleagues have said, the fight against fascism is everyday and is still going on in and out of the House for the prevalence of social justice, solidarity and human emancipation in the face of statements of hatred, fear or even targeting social groups, which unfortunately even today are heard by some parties and some Members of Parliament and within the National Representation Hall. However, because things have been heard since the morning, I want to take a stand and answer this vulgar attempt to distort reality from the New Democracy and dedicate the lyrics of the poet, Manolis Anagnostakis, from his poem "I fear" published in 1983: "I fear the people who are now struggling with the nest to find stains in yours". Ladies and gentlemen, when you address these issues on the Left and SYRIZA, you must be more careful and when you move the finger. For our officials and our MPs have fought decades of terrible battles within and outside Parliament against fascism and Nazism with attacks they have taken, with a daily fight to defend the weakest, present and witness to the Golden Dawn trial. I didn't see any of you. We were stable there. Of course, with a story full of exiles, torture and executions against the monster of fascism and Nazism. So I'm a little dreadful when you refer to SYRIZA on the left on these issues. Of course, a party - not to mention examples - its own leader said that Golden Dawn is as if it were not there and violence originated almost exclusively on the Left in recent years or Members who spoke of serious Golden Dawn or those who were hand in hand, in the directions against the Ambassadors' Agreement with the Nazis or at xenophobic gatherings against refugees, should not make major attacks - I think - on SYRIZA. Of course, I should like to close this report and remind you of something that Thanasis Kabayannis made public today on a television show: "We found messages from the leaders of the Golden Dawn, where systematic cooperation had arisen with the Secretary General of the then Government of New Democracy to the homicide of Physsa, when the government cut off the umbilical cord that was attached to it." Eighty-two pleadings had come to the House and you had not dealt with any of them and are now making a bid that you brought them before justice? Did the Bridge have to be killed to be? The trial has accelerated with our own interventions. There was no room in 2015. The Chamber of Appeal was given to speed up the process. The demands of the civil action were accepted and implemented by the SYRIZA government for the sole involvement of the judges in this case. Fifteen in a month, and the lawyers themselves have recognized it. Also, the new Criminal Code regulates penalties that extend and not denominations and large ones that are never implemented. It's a Penal Code that you've changed. You have not made any speeches but the abolition of social welfare or the dismantling of bankers, and it is enough to intervene in electoral legislation, because there is a constitutional requirement for the irrevocable decision on the deprivation of civil rights, for which you have not done anything for a year and a half. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to the bill too soon, Mr. President. Minister, I think you have discredited the bill because you did not have the presence to the committees. You made an initial intervention - an admonition to the MPs and then we never saw you again. It is a good thing that we are going to the question process and the system is being objective, but something we have created, instead of applying it in a sufficient and effective way, you are dismantling it by excluding thousands of people and you are being told, and those who have been invited, because critical factors have not taken the floor. You are putting very significant obstacles to a person who has decades in the country enjoying the right to citizenship, either with the paradox that you are disproportionately increasing, or with the social and economic criteria that fall within the competence of each minister entirely arbitrarily, or with 70% in examinations where there will be no preparation. And, of course, this does not respond to the many needs and condemns all of them to go into obscurity, to the margin, to gray zones and to be exploited again. And it is not in line with the spirit of what yesterday's decision says that we are going to open and democratic societies with rights and obligations for all. So I close, and say that it is a closed and fearful reform that excludes people who feel Greece as their only homeland. It reminds us of what our compatriots have been through in Australia, Canada, America and elsewhere. And it goes hand in hand with your general policy, which is supposed to be law and order, supposedly order and reasonable, supposedly serious, but in essence is conservativeization, stereotypes, engraving of right-wing reflexes and returning that the Greek society and especially the Greek youth will not accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u423	Now Mr Spankis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis proves in practice that it continues with a sound and rich legislative work with specific and clear directions. Direction first: speeding up procedures. Adopted by the Commission on 16 December. Three: respect for ordinary citizens. Headquarters: respect for the ordinary employee. Address Thursday: the creation of a modern, European public administration. That is what we have promised, and that is what we are doing today with the provisions that are being voted on. But today, in addition to the main provisions of the bill concerning the amendment of the Code of Greek citizenship and the new framework for selecting administrations in the public sector, as well as issues relating to the heart of local government, we also have major amendments that I think, Mr Ministers, that you need to accept, such as the amendment to sports clubs, the authorisation of special purpose to parents with disabilities and a number of others. As under the provision of Article 3 of the amendment of the Ministry of Interior, measures are taken for all civil servants in the event of an attack on an official in the performance of his duties. As an employee I was also in the Ministry of Finance, and indeed in the tax field, which is often under control, and there are few times when I have been attacked, I am particularly sensitive to this issue. So I cannot help but express my satisfaction, because we often tend to forget easily. The current regulation follows on from a similar amendment tabled in the summer following the brutal attack on officials of the DU Kozani and with which immediate measures were put in place for victims and stricter sanctions for offenders and following the Minister's reply to the relevant question that I had tabled, which the Government stated it intended that they should bring in appropriate arrangements for all public services and civil servants. That is what is happening today. On the reform of the Code of Greek citizenship, which is being attempted by the current draft law, we must all agree, ladies and gentlemen, that the process of granting Greek citizenship has a lot of scope for improvement both in the process and in the various stages of it, but we must improve, above all, the working times. Cases run in the drawers of the relevant departments. In fact, more than twenty thousand of them, at the moment we are discussing, concern requests from people who were born or who have studied in the Greek educational system. These people have proved to be high in integration into Greek society. This cannot go on. It is easy to understand how many problems are created for both Greek citizenship applicants themselves and for Greek society and the Greek economy by extension and of course we need to take important steps to keep transparency and speed in the process. The draft law we are debating today, which in its first part includes the arrangements for citizenship, is a product of very serious work which is done for the first time. The Ministry of Interior in excellent cooperation with the National Transparency Authority, which delivered the evaluation report to the Minister, brought the necessary reforms to the parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, the Authority's finding has shown that this process creates serious room for the development of corruption and opacity practices. So what did this report say to us, Mr President? That these procedures are extremely dangerous. You will allow me here to congratulate the Governor of the National Transparency Authority, Mr Angelos Bini, on the way in which the National Transparency Authority is operating, which is approaching and overcoming European data. And I wish all legislative improvements and legislative initiatives were based on such reports as the one drawn up by the National Transparency Authority, drafted by Greek civil servants and that is the truth. The most serious problems and delays are identified during the interview. That's why our government is moving on to an important section. We replace oral examinations that create a sense of subjectivity and opacity with a system of written examinations of the pan-Hellenic type. And you know very well that exams like pan-Hellenics never questioned them. We are finally entering a process to bring transparency. The examination will be carried out on a constant basis twice a year. The authors will be corrected in the same way as in the pan-Hellenic. An issue bank will be set up. While there is special care for people with learning difficulties. So, is there anyone who disagrees with this? Is there anything in these regulations that does not ensure transparency in the process? Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we do not hesitate to shed light on the administration of citizenship, on the functioning of NGOs, everywhere light, with respect even to the last euro of the Greek taxpayer, because we are reformers, because we believe in the qualifications of civil servants, because we want the real upgrading of public administration, because we want to fly to the garbagehouse phenomena in public administration that turns us back decades. With a vehicle, the state finally brings substantial improvements to the day-to-day operation of the state. Mr President - and I thank you for your tolerance - I will waste some time on the draft law, because I would like to refer to another regulation on the right to raise the child of civil servants of private law with regard to IAS. It restores inequality and, for the first time, gives the OAED’s special maternity protection and the maternal staff of the legal persons governed by private law who have no employment for an indefinite period. It should be noted, in fact, that this category of staff did not have the right to either the OAED or the special facilities applicable to civil servants. I would like to say a few words about the second chapter of the draft law on the selection of administrations in the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Spankee, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u426	Wait a minute, Mr. President. We are bringing in a key reform here, with which we are achieving the decoupling of the government from the administration. The Executive Director shall be selected by a five-member committee, whose members shall be appointed by a decision of the President of the AACC. The composition of the committee ensures that there will be pluralism in the views, while the process of pre-selecting and moleculation converging to the best final selection of executives, which will actually give value to their work. The interconnection of the Human Resources Registry with the "ERGANI" system ensures better monitoring of staff management and job development issues without additional administrative burden. In conclusion, I would like to say that from the very important provisions of the bill, it is also the extension of the contracts of employees under the 'Help at Home' programme, ensuring that over a hundred and twenty thousand beneficiaries do not stay in the air until the competitive process for the implementation of the programme with permanent staff is completed, while the arrangements for local government agencies will help to increase to the greatest possible extent the absorption of European funds, which means a real prospect of growth and will bring investment and substance projects in our local communities. That is why I call on all sides to vote in favour of this bill, a bill which brings reform to public administration with respect to the citizen, the employee, the Greek taxpayer's money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u427	Mrs Katerina Papakosta - Palioura from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 7 October 2020 will henceforth be a historic moment for democracy and a historic milestone for Greek justice, as the neo-nazi structure of the Golden Dawn was condemned as a criminal organisation. As soon as the international press yesterday stated on his headlines that Greek justice was quick to close the wounds that the Golden Dawn had opened in Greek society, condemning fascism in every version of it. However, one wonders why, for two weeks now, the international community itself, while calling for the ceasefire in Nagorno-Karabakh, has been at the same time unreservedly following the provocativeness of Turkey and the President of Erdogan, who is glad to say that he will support the Azerbaijans against the Armenians in every possible way, a president who does not even recognize the crime of the Armenian genocide, a crime against humanity, as our Prime Minister himself has said a few months ago, a crime that will always be a lesson to the rejection of hatred, racism and blind violence, because the solution to evil is the right to its repetition. One thing is certain: Tolerance on the criminal activities promoted and supported by Turkey, as in the violations of international law, is certainly not an obstacle to its reform and expansion. I now come to this draft legislation. During the discussions there has been a rhetoric that is in no way consistent with our capacity in this Chamber, a rhetoric of the type: "Greek you are born, you are not, so why to acquire Greek citizenship". Ladies and gentlemen, there are born Greeks who, despite this, managed to betray national ideals in the past, support and support rhetoric hatred and xenophobia, are unspeakable, unspeakable and often deceive Greek classical education and our roots. There are, of course, also people throughout the whole range of history who loved Greece, who have given personal struggles to support it in difficult historical times, who have emigrated here with their families and created inseparable ties with our country, have founded, studied, they have become a star. These people embraced our country, as she embraced them and should not be or feel less Greek than we do. As you know, in his "Panagyri" Isocrates states that the term "Greek" succeeded in not symbolizing the origin, but the culture of the spirit and Greeks being more called those who accepted the way of our education and education than those who have the same origin as us. A liberal society, therefore, could not legislate differently from this legislation, which is based on the existence of Greek education and integration into the social and productive fabric of our country all applicants for Greek citizenship. And we will say this until it is consolidated by everyone: every piece of legislation of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is aimed at transparency, democracy and good public administration. The procedure for interviews of applicants for naturalisation of alien, alien, biased or non-religious practices is therefore amended and replaced by the system of pan-Hellenic written examinations. The basic conditions for obtaining Greek citizenship do not change. What we are pursuing, however, is the shortest, meritful and transparent procedures for all applicants for special care, as the Prime Minister has said. Of course, care is taken for people belonging to special classes of learning - incompetent, disabled, elderly - who are given the opportunity to have oral examination by a special committee. After the recent legislative improvements, which were also announced by the Minister responsible, people who are sixty-two years old and over will be examined orally and the aim of all the subjects will be to obtain the success rate of 70% in place of the initial 80%. Finally, a short interview following the examination by three members of the committee will reveal the social and economic integration of the foreigner in the country. The examinations will be carried out twice a year and the establishment of a themes bank for the subjects to be examined is still foreseen. I would point out again, however, the three characteristic axes of this bill: Prosperity, parity, transparency. Moving now to the second part of the bill on the arrangements for the development prospects and the proper functioning of the Local Government agencies, I would like to focus on two important legislative initiatives. First of all, I mention the fact that the work contracts of the "Help at Home" programme are being extended until the final tables of the ASEP competition are published. Many Members have already put themselves on this issue and I do not want to be tiring. So the government has clearly moved in the right direction once again with this extension by removing the difficulties that would arise anyway. Subsequently, with regard to the proper functioning of the TAs, there is now provision for the studies and publications of the municipalities to be awarded without additional remuneration to the special scientific associates of the mayors. So the kitten of entrusting studies with a financial burden or time-consuming procedures for the works of the municipalities stops. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the present government is to restructure procedures in the public sector, simplify them and make them more digitised, in order to achieve transparent and pragmatic criteria and, therefore, with the co-responsible services required for our time. Unfortunately, the previous government has inherited us over fifty thousand demands in an examination procedure - few members of the structure and meetings - which were most often postponed. However, we do not intend in any way to continue the policy of non-existence, opacity and non-good administration in previous years. Being always in mind the rapid service of those who love our country and wish to acquire Greek citizenship, we appease the existing legislative framework, creating merital conditions and equality. So we will never again leave to chance and to the margin the will of those who have learned our language and history, have worked, tried to integrate into society, to become Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u429	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping and Island Policy, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, today tabled 8-10-2020, a draft law: ‘Strengthening from 24-9-2020 an amendment from 26-7-2018 a Donation Convention between the Greek State, the Joint Foundation called ‘Social Benefit Foundation’ (ALEXANDER S. ONASSIS PUBLIC BENEFIT FOUNDATION), based in the Vaduz of LIECHTENSIN and the Onasuric Center for Cancer (NPV)’, which is based in the VADUCHTEIN and on the Onsurgent Centre for CIV. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Zachariadis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u430	Today's debate, unfortunately, shows that the New Democracy does not have the political displacement and the political depth to celebrate this great victory of democracy, anti-fascism and justice. From the first minutes he attacked a massive, peaceful, democratic gathering that celebrated and celebrated the outcome. And just then, a few minutes later, the bile and political empathy began. In a role of Moses this time Antonis Samaras owes it all to him, the others not only did nothing - in New Democracy - but at the same time they politically facilitated the Golden Dawn, made it difficult for justice to be awarded, or even worse, they prepared the process for the Golden Dawn to fall softly. You have been saying this for one day in public speech and in Parliament and you are not ashamed of it. And from today you've started with lies, lies and lies. First lie that the Nazis were in the 'Indignant's'. Sadly, almost ten years later, it seems that so much you understood from the protest of a world that suffered, was unemployed, poorer, when he lost his life. You will never miss the 2011-2012 democratic protest. But you're all right with the Prespes. That's where you don't mind that Mr. Samaras, Mr. Voridis, Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Ploris and many others were on the same square as the Golden Dawn. That's the truth. Second lie: The new Criminal Code throws the nazis in the soft. Is it true or is it not based on the Constitution that deprivation of civil rights can only be done by irrevocable decision? What does Mr Kastanides say, which, among other things, is a different legal person and, in any case, is not a SYRIZA? 'And the old Criminal Code cannot impose deprivation of civil rights unless the decision is irreversible'. The Government twice amended the Criminal Code and did not change the 2019 arrangement. The forecasts must be made in electoral law and not in the Criminal Code. So vote on the amendment that we tabled and leave misery, myopia and lies! Next lie: SYRIZA - says - delayed the trial. But it is our government that has shaped the conditions for there to be a larger room, and Minister Kalogeru has made the self-evident demands of the lawyers of civil law to get rid of other obligations and to be able to speed up the trial. However, to be consistent and historical - SYRIZA, along with other forces and in today's House, is the political continuation of the democratic, anti-fascist and racist struggles. Our political ancestors were exile to the junta, exile before the junta in the one-party state of the right, were resistance to EAM, ELAS, EPA. Our political ancestors were hunted and imprisoned by the Metaxas regime and the dictatorship of 4 August. And we know very well where we come from and where we want to go. They know us in the neighborhoods, they know us in the cities, they know us in the villages, they know us all about history, and they know you, of course. Yesterday, we had a great victory and we let you eat with your misery, we leave you with the theory of both ends. We will always be on the side of the democratic struggles. And I see a great rush after the decision to say 'and we were there, we fought on the right side of history'. It is therefore an opportunity for us to re-establish ourselves and remind ourselves of a number of issues. Fascism and Nazism are genuine children in history of the deadlocks of capitalism, nationalism and racism. It was created and gigantic in Italy by the aristocratic big farmers and industrialists against workers, land workers and their cooperatives. In Germany, Nazism prevailed in full agreement with industrialists and big bankers. He prevailed in Spain militaryly and remained a petty child of Western capitalism for fifty years. He lived a great political life in Latin America through continuous coups with the full support of American imperialism. He raised his head in Europe after 1990, when he allegedly came to the end of history, when he first appeared in the Baltic countries and then in Central and Eastern Europe and the descendants of the SS were justified when the conservative parties of right adopted the rhetoric and positions and arguments of the far right to respond to austerity and inequality. This was done in France with Mrs Lepenn's own father, Mrs Lepenn, in Austria today, in Hungary. What happened in Greece? They acted marginally as residual droplets of the military junta, as an underworld of night and gangs of blackmailers, as small extreme allies to deal with demonstrations, strikes, popular mobilisations. They were roommates in the "right building", to remember Mr Karatzafiris, even though they lived in the basement, next to the sewers. After all, with enthusiasm they were dealt with by some of the extreme conservative media and some of the conservative party. Incidentally, after the court ruling, the resignation of the former Member of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Koukoutsi, was called upon by the chairman of the Water Association of the Municipality of Kalamata, to which was appointed by the Mayor of Vassilopoulos, a worthy political child of Mr. Samaras. What, then, and for what reasons and to what politicians have the words 'lathing immigrants', 'gloomy immigrants', infiltrated? Obviously, we are pleased after today's decision that is so close to the right side of history, we want them. Democracy needs them, but we must remember - because there are other critical moments in the country - that we have to deal with a great deal and that soon we will gather critically fuel socially. A reference to today's communication from the CEDEFOP on the hidden decision to grant EUR 2 million from the regular funding of the municipalities in the EBRD, without the consent of the CEDEFOP: did they speak of a coup and ask, Mr Theodorikos and Mr Levanie, those in the CEDEFOP who thus speak about your own actions are systolic? Did you consult them? Did you hear them? They say they will go against what you are doing and move legally. And this way you're dealing with many of the arrangements you've brought to the bill show that you've taken away from the world of self-government and its real needs, which, in difficult times of pandemic, stand by the citizens. Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u431	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Bugas Yiannis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who see fascism only have one color will not be able to get rid of their ideas. And let's start with what we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u433	Meaning? Tell us a little bit more clearly!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u434	I'm sorry, you're gonna have to listen to him. He will tell you his opinion, he will say what he wants, as Mr Zachariadis said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u435	We agree that Greek society does not tolerate hate ideologies, racism and totalitarianism, whatever colour these ideologies may have, regardless of where they come from, if they come from the extreme right or from the extreme left. We must say that the persecution of the members of the Golden Dawn has tried democracy and justice. But democracy has proved to be strong. She punished those who dared to underestimate her power and those who tried to hurt her. The logic of the limbs - and that is what we need to restrain - have been condemned. They were condemned irrevocably to the conscience of the Greek people. The communiqué of the court's decision has been formally closed and, ladies and gentlemen, a period of serious social tensions fuelled by 'indignant' movements, which have unfortunately been encouraged or supported by parties that have either acquired a parliamentary presence or strengthened it, investing in crisis and populism, causing a division in our society and a blow to our democracy, which has been a democracy for the first time in the post-Government. However, the citizens have safeguarded democratic institutions. Our resignation, the New Democracy, is entitled to be proud of this victory of justice and democracy. The story, whether you like it or not, writes that the trial, the prosecution began with a government of New Democracy and a Change Movement, PASOK then, and was also completed with a New Democracy Government. The then Prime Minister, the Minister of Citizen Protection, but also the prosecutors, particularly the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, and those who took responsibility for the original prosecution under the adverse social conditions at the time, are now entitled to feel justified. Those who, in the meantime, did not do what they had to do, according to the law and the principles of the democratic culture, must be considered. Those who have taken care of the criminal treatment of the criminal organisation and its members, especially its leaders, must be more favourable than those envisaged in the execution of the wrongdoing, the crimes, must explain why they have done so. Did they do it negligently or intentionally? Today the statements by the former Justice Ministers of SYRIZA, Mr. Near and Paradise, they are typical. Mr. Paradoxopoulos, in his favour, I would say, for what he said just before his successor, he said that we did hurry to bring the Criminal Code. Could have come later on the Criminal Code. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, feel that you have rushed to bring the Criminal Code to a vote on the last day of the parliamentary life of the previous period? The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has ensured - and I think that this is something that we must state - conditions of a just and impartial legal crisis, as is appropriate in a ruled state and has given citizens the confidence in justice. I would like to make a reference to what has been said by the Chief of the Mera25 Party, Mr Varoufakis. He said Golden Dawn is a product of memoirs. Yes, it is! But he said half the truth. The other half is that he himself, but then his associates and companions are also the products of the memoranda. They are the ones who questioned the European institutions. I would also like to make a reference to what has been said about the incidents that followed in the communication of the decision. No one in this Chamber can tolerate any abuse of authority. However, when you talk about tear gas and chemicals, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you should bear in mind that in the first seven months of 2019, compared to the fourteen months that New Democracy governs, three times the number of chemicals and tear gas had fallen. In other words, within seven months you had thrown three times more tear gas and chemicals into the protesters than the New Democracy Government today in the fourteen months that governs. I now come to the draft law we are discussing today. The draft law under discussion is important, particularly in accordance with Chapter I. And to put things in place, let me say, in a logical and legal order, citizenship is the dominant legal link of the natural person with the state. The designation of the Greek nationality, namely which natural persons are legally associated with Greece, is made, ladies and gentlemen, under private international law in a sovereign manner by the state that lays down the rules of national law. And because there was disagreement in committee, but also in plenary, Greek citizenship law follows, in principle, the principle of the blood bond, in which Greeks were born from a Greek father or mother, and only exceptionally adopts the law of the territory, as the result of the integration of foreign immigrants born, living and trained in our country. This is a sensible, scientific approach, without dramatising or even demonising legal terms. It is also useful to highlight and take advantage of the high level of protection that foreigners enjoy in our country. For the opposition parties were given the impression that foreigners are a number of second-class citizens as long as they live in our country and that, to enjoy rights, they must take Greek citizenship. This is wrong, and I think it is wrong to give this image to Greece. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Constitution itself, in particular Article 5(2), says: "All those on Greek territory enjoy the absolute protection of their lives, their honor and their freedom, without distinction of nationality, race, language and religious or political beliefs." Furthermore, it is fundamental that the provision of Article 4 of our Civil Code, which stipulates that the foreigner enjoys the civil rights of his country, a provision with a particular historical weight and symbolism which testifies that the Greek state has always respected and, of course, still respects the rights of all foreigners who are in the Greek state without discrimination. Therefore, foreigners who are in our country enjoy full social, individual and civil rights. However, those who wish to claim Greek citizenship must demonstrate that they honor the country that is hosting them and provide them, as I said before, with absolute protection of their individual and social rights and freedoms by complying with the conditions and procedure laid down by the law to obtain Greek citizenship. The procedure and the conditions for its acquisition defines the draft law under discussion, which is important for another reason, which I would like to emphasise in particular. Because European citizenship is also acquired as a derivative of national citizenship, which provides citizens who are given the Greek additional status to be directly bodies of Union freedoms and rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the government's legislative initiative is to simplify and speed up the processes of naturalisation of foreigners as Greek citizens and to strengthen the capacity of the most naturalised Greeks in the country's political life. The instrument for achieving this objective is to reduce outstanding applications for naturalisation, as well as to ensure objectivity, transparency, equivalence and equivalence in the process of naturalisation of foreign citizens. Greeks always face not as a threat, but as a challenge, the incorporation of foreigners into our country and we are proud that they want to take part in the next education. Our society is and will remain open and hospitable to all who respect its rules and traditions. For the Greeks always patriotism is when love for your own people comes first. Fascism for the Greeks is when hatred for others comes first. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, because I have made several speeches today and do not want to go beyond time, I would like to say that today we are called on to vote on a legislative text, which shows the effectiveness and proper planning of the Ministry. It properly reorganises a series of public administrations, resolves functional issues of local government bodies and finally revises major issues that fall within the competence of the General Secretariat of Citizenship. Ultimately, it makes state function more functional. I would like to say a word about the legislative initiative that the government has asked for so that the condemned Golden Dawn can no longer be candidates. This will be done, ladies and gentlemen, and it must be done with everyone's contribution to an effort to find a solution that is constitutionally solid, that is to say, subject to the rules of both the public and constitutional law. I think we'll find her. They don't need fireworks. There is no need today for stunning efforts. It takes sobriety so as not to repeat what we have experienced in previous years. We must shield our democracy and our institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u436	Thank you. Mrs. Pulu from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u437	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, begin with yesterday's historic victory of democracy. Yesterday, the neonazis of the Golden Dawn finally faced the verdict of justice. The eyes of all the progressive humanity are on us and Greek justice has not disappointed her. The people who fought for this victory in the courtroom, the anti-fascist movement and all democratic citizens experienced a historic justice. However, the New Democracy Government's peaceful celebration, continuing on the slippery path of authoritarianism and repression, chose to break it down violently. We were eyewitnesses of this bloodless attack. Chemicals, tear gas, men against citizens were used, violating the constitutional principle of proportionality. Some were injured, including Mr Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis. You owe explanations, gentlemen of the government! You need another apology, Mr Chrysochide, and leave cheap excuses! You have a responsibility to protect us instead of attacking us. If you can't, quit. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now go to the bill. I wonder why self-government is one of the most powerful obsessions of the government and a field of experimentation. I will give some examples of your actions, Minister: the violent abolition of the analogue system and representation in the composition of the institutions of government, the peculiarisation and the tooling of the "PHILDIMOS" programme that you described as "fuss" until you understand how it works and which you then copyed respectfully, repainting it. Let us note here that you have indeed made a significant change in the way the projects are integrated, which is now exclusively done by you, and on the basis of the SYRIZA government that designed this important development programme for the municipalities, integration has been horizontally integrated with single transparent criteria by executives. In addition, we have the legislative acts in the name of the urgent needs of the pandemic - of course, without consultation - which have affected the operation and reduced the revenues of the OTAs. Last example is your bill today. In all your legislation, there is a common title, i.e.: "The self-government field in factoryism, centralism, opacity, manipulation, unconditional but stable tradition in private interests". It is a field of application of the ideas of the new right that is neoliberal in economic and neo-conservative in institutional matters. And how's all this warranted? They are justified in the interests of efficiency, which is separated from transparency, collectiveness, subsidiarity, democracy. I ask you, gentlemen of the government, this: can we not have democracy and efficiency? With your legislation you answer: “No. Or democracy will have or will have effectiveness.' Product of this distorting logic is also this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Home Affairs started in public administration with the abolition of the Staff Register, continuously with opaque positions of the day and now ends in the institution of all of this. In self-government it continues with the further institutional demolition of municipal and regional councils. Minister, after you have first created false majorities in the economic committees, you are now continuing your undemocratic interventions, giving them additional powers that you are removing from the present collective bodies. You are creating mayors and districts of small "Musicides" in the image and likeness of the great Moses. The state-owned midwife blesses daily. Of course, you are making all these legislations, without going into consultation with the CEDEFOP and EIA associations. Why? What are you afraid of? While politically controlling them, why do you deceive them? Or did you know they'd react? The CEDEFOP requested the withdrawal of the relevant article. Are you ignoring her? However, the most resounding trick came from Tripoli. Of course, you know that the Peloponnese Regional Council set up a coordinating committee to defend the powers of the self-government body which is the direct body of democratic legitimacy. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Be sure that this example will soon be imitated by others. They will not let you play with the Constitution and the European Charter of Local autonomy. You continue your experimentation, Mr Minister, at the cost of your credibility, I would say, by the constant inconveniences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, I will need one more minute. I would like to point out to you the proposed provisions for development companies, the development agencies you are now entrusting the implementation of general self-government powers, undermining the public character of self-government. That is right, the CEDEFOP points out that they tend to replace self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, I omit a few things from my speech to speed up. The government is planning the future of self-government, with no staff and no financial resources. In the preliminary draft state budget, the deficit for self-government amounts to a respectable amount of EUR 100 million. At the same time as the amendment to Article 3, which you have just brought yesterday, you are charging it EUR 18.5 million, based on your own assessment, for cleaning work contracts. In addition, you ask the CEDEFOP to consent to the financing of the EBRD with EUR 2 million from the CFP. The CEDEFOP shall respond. I think that Mr Zachariadis mentioned this as well. Although you know that he is the primary shareholder of the EBRD with 34%, you bypassed it. You appointed the board of directors. I now hear, Minister, that you have already signed this for the EUR 2 million. Of course, we all know that these will be absent from the municipalities' budgets. The CEDEFOP has repeatedly called for a transfer of powers, without the transfer of corresponding resources. The pain with the masks you've loaded her in skill, it's rather a lesson now. With systematic sub-financing, therefore, self-government, you are depriving social policy instruments in your increasingly vulnerable population groups, and also means of tackling the health crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the sluggishness of the government's legislation which is characterised as a 'flash' and 'writing' by self-government media, friends who are addressing it, is demonstrated both by the regulation putting the 'LEADER' programmes in precarious shape and by the 'writing' of the RES, where it attempted to smuggle against local communities, allegedly strengthening OTA revenues. Back up. Others have also been mentioned in them. It matters that you undo yourself, you submit legislative improvements on Friday and Tuesday, you change them yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u438	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u439	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. Finally, Minister, I would like to refer to the long-standing reform of competences, which you are preparing with the committee of technocrats, with the President, Mr Xenophonta Fotiadis, without having tabled any findings in the CEDEFOP. You presented together a framework of mild reform proposals, with areas where hot potatoes, your deadlocks on primary health and primary education, it can be seen that you are planning to transfer them to the municipalities without appropriate resources. Minister, self-government interventions create a front. Let the mayors consult the municipal classes and the public. Self-government always finds its pace under the pressure of day-to-day problems, but also of daily accountability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u442	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u443	Mr President, a lot of debate has taken place today on the question of self-government. However, I did not have time to refer to my normal speech. There has been no stronger support for the institution of self-government than the current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and this Ministry of Interior. I am referring first of all to the economic part of the case. Does self-government actually have reduced revenues due to the crisis, the coronary pandemic, but has it already received, Minister, at least EUR 130 million of exceptional aid?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u444	More than that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u445	At least EUR 130 million. I don't know if you should figure out that with the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u446	How much has he lost?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u447	Wait a minute. With the measure of undeclared squares, we have ensured more than EUR 120 million per year for self-government. That's what I don't see you counting on. I do not know if the sum seems small to you, I do not know if you have any opportunities for more money and for other prospects, but the reality is that these at least EUR 120 million are guaranteed for self-government and you should measure them along the way and along the way. We have also guaranteed EUR 2.5 billion for the Antonis Tritsis programme, with the Ministry of Interior's memorandum of cooperation with the Deposit and Loan Fund. I don't know if you're smiling out of joy or for another reason, but that's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u448	(It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u449	Don't interrupt him. It's not time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u450	Projects are part of the Antonis Tritsis programme, project execution is being launched, contracted projects are being carried out, mayors hug it, demands are being made, 12 calls have already been published, and there is a whole situation throughout the country. You should recognize all this when discussing and learning to be more objective please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u451	(It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u452	Please, you were at the Step before. You've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u453	Mr President, when positions are held, we must also then place ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u454	The Parliamentary Representative. I do not see your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u455	We want to ask the Minister a question. It is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Spirtzi, at the end of the day, your parliamentary representative, when your time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u457	Mr President, I as a parliamentarian...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u458	Mr Manosos Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the satisfaction and joy of all of us yesterday for the fact that the neo-nazi structure has taken the place it deserves. But just waited, and hypocrisy, too, I'm afraid. The truth is always simple. The basics need to be remembered. The criminal organization was dismantled in the days of the New Democracy - PASOK, with Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and Vice President Vangelis Venizelos, with Minister of Public Order Nikos Dendia. That's what history wrote. So came the things that the decision came to a government in New Democracy again with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Why did things come like that? Because for four and a half years you've been looking for an appropriate room. I repeat, the truth is always simple. I now come to the draft law. I will focus due to the limited time on the issue of the Code of Nationality, which is very important. The main change that comes with this bill is the introduction of a system of examinations on citizenship, an intact system, which will overcome both bureaucracy and opaqueness in the process of giving citizenship. He'll put it on a new base. And that's very right. I hear the criticism of the opposition in this bill, and I must say I am surprised. You are all talking, ladies and gentlemen, especially on the left, as if nothing has changed in the last ten or twenty years in our country and in the region of the planet where our place is. But it has changed, and we have to say things with their name. What has changed is that we now have a flood of immigration, we have huge flows of immigration that go to Europe to a great extent from Greece, that is, passing through Greece. This is a given that cannot be taken into account in the Code of Nationality. The Code of Nationality is not only about how we deal with the people who are now in our country - it also has the importance of - but it is also a message of the future, which they are taking into account, and those who intend to leave their homeland to go somewhere to find better destiny. Can Greece raise much larger populations that come from other places to live here today? My opinion is that not. Greece must have a strict system for the allocation of citizenship, which, as our Parliamentary representative, Mr Bugas rightly said, does not in any way mean reduced human and social rights of foreigners living in our country. However, these rights and others the right to naturalise the Greek citizen. And you know here is an issue of democracy, which is supposed to be particularly sensitive to them on the left - the opposite is actually, but I don't want to get into it now - does not see it. Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, in order to function, presupposes that the society in which it operates has a minimum of common principles and values. That's what you're doing with a strict framework of citizenship. You ensure that those who are citizens of the country have the minimum of common principles and values, which are a prerequisite for the functioning of democracy, especially - I told you that I will say things by their name - when you have a huge flow of people who are coming for various reasons in the country and want many of them to stay and become citizens, who come from cultural environments and others that do not at all facilitate integration into a democratic society and I believe that you understand very well what I mean. That is why I would like us to have a strict design on this and a strict Code of Nationality. It is, in general, the draft law that we are to vote on today. That is why I support it. There are a few points in which I believe, Minister, that you should make some changes. In Article 6, where you describe the examination procedure for the certificate, which will be done correctly, you leave the Secretary-General of citizenship the choice of when these examinations will be carried out. That's not right. A coordinate state that wants to plan this too, and the flows of naturalisation, also has an obligation to the citizens who are now Greek citizens, but also to those who aspire to become Greek citizens, to define every time they have this right. It must not be too late for applications not to be cumulated, so that we do not have the cases of bureaucracy that we have, but it cannot be every three or a few. When he stays open, everyone can assume anything. The same issue actually stipulates that anyone who fails the tests can give back. Yes, sir. When can he give again? To have failed these tests, it means that you were judged not to meet the criteria for integration into the Greek society, that you do not share the principles and values of Greek society. You can't have these in three months, say. Then you'll just have "false" better questions ready from the basis of the issues. This should therefore also be specified. I personally believe that no more than one year's time to re-examination. A corresponding issue is that of language. B1 with European categorisation is defined as a minimum. This is the case today in many European countries. I say again that Greece must have a stricter than many framework countries. What does B1 mean, so people can understand? What Greek society knows as Lower in English, which is the lowest certification, is B2. We're asking for something more than that. Why? A man whose Greeks are inferior to a child who takes Lower, can he really watch the function of the Greek state and have an opinion on what he is asked to answer the exams? I think not. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has a national identity. Democracy in Greece was developed in the state that had and had this national identity. Greek citizens in their overwhelming majority are proud of this identity and we want to maintain it not as a museum exhibit, despite the verb "registration", because our identity is alive and the history of identity shows us that it is blossoming and enables us to grow in open international society. So it has always been with the Greeks and under the name "Greeks" and under the name "Romies" for as long as that name prevails and was referring to the very same ethnicity. So that national identity should be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u460	Thank you. From Mr. Voloudakis and Chania we will go to Drama, Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was a day of democratic upheaval, it was a day of optimism and a day of hope that when society is organising and claiming, and the institutions are working, we can feel more confident of the quality of our democracy. Justice spoke. The concept of justice has spoken, the institutions of justice have spoken with President Lepeniotis. And yet in this festive atmosphere, in this well-being that prevailed, you seem to be miserable, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, poisoned today's debate and settled at the heart of political controversy of minor issues. The major one is the condemnation of Golden Dawn as a criminal organization. What we were claiming as a society and as a political system is put aside and consider what is the threatened penalty and whether the deprivation of civil rights is valid or not and when it will apply, that is to say, things that are not 'false' in reality. Golden Dawn's status as a criminal organization will not depend on whether its protagonists stay in prison six, seven, eight or ten years. That is the major one, and that is what we have to keep as a crucial point. The question of the Criminal Codes, the Code of Criminal Procedure and penalties is a matter for us lawyers. It makes no sense now to report to the Chamber for a third of the sentence with the Old Criminal Code or for two-fifths of the sentence with the current Criminal Code that the felonies are now being exposed to a minimum of sixteen years with the new one instead of fifteen of the old. We have to tell the essence of the case. The point of the matter is that Golden Dawn is a criminal organization which now, after the vote of the Greek people who took it out of Parliament, is now being brought to prison as a criminal organisation. You talked about the delay in the trial and I hear you're taking advantage of the juncture that it started with the Samara government and the first phase is over with the Mitsotakis Government. I would remind you that it started with the Samara Government when Mr. Dendias was forced to unite on the occasion of the death of the Physsus twenty - I do not remember how many procedurals were pending in fragmentary terms and which were pouring, while the Golden Dawn was dominant in the streets all the time and no one saw its criminal character. While the anti-fascists shouted, protested and clashed, the government of Samaras smashed the island. Only when the Physus was killed did you realize that the snake's egg escaped and the snake came out on the road and will bite us all. Previously with the Pakistani, fishermen or members of the FIFG I have not seen any such sensitivity. So we know very well what happened and what procedures they set the start and the end of the criminal trial.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u462	You won't have time for the bill, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u463	I shall be speaking only on the amendment that I have proposed, Mr President. I'll say one last thing about the duration of the trial. This trial was a trial that was initially afflicted by a room, because no one had predicted that there would be an appropriate room for a trial of so many factors. SYRIZA's government did it. No one had foreseen that the seat should be composed of judges who are the sole judges in this case. SYRIZA's government did it. We must take account of the sadistic tactics of the defendants. Thousands of documents have been filed that demanded to be read at the audience. We who are lawyers know the procedure for reading documents. This delay was exacerbated by the abstention of the lawyers for the Katorugalo's insurance law, as far as I remember. All of these are parameters that we must assess and not speak lightly of the heart of the trial delay. Finally, Minister, I would like a little attention, because I and the rapporteurs have tabled the price - an amendment to me, because there is this very important problem with the cleaners of the municipalities, who have been hired, and there has been a need to increase their working hours. By decision of the municipal council - I am talking about the Drama that I am aware of - cleaners and cleaners are waiting for publication in the FEK so that they can lawfully collect. It is a long time to check from decentralised, and of course the publication of the FEK is too slow. Two valuable months will be lost. Workers and workers will not be able to collect money. In practice they don't clean schools. There is a very serious risk due to coronary. I think that this amendment we tabled as SYRIZA can reduce the situation so that these people can be divested on the basis of the municipal council decision, the attestation of the director of the school concerned, as well as the publication in the FEK retrospectively by the decision of the municipal council. We expect you to accept the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr. Blondopoulos. Mr Bougas has the floor for one minute, and then Mr Symmarelene has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u465	I have only asked for the floor for a minute - perhaps not a minute - on this matter. In their attempts, SYRIZA speakers to reject the reproach that they had alleviated the sanctions provided, under previous criminal law, for members and for the leaders of a criminal organisation, they developed another argument, that although the penalty provided for may be reduced, but the actual timing of the creation was increased. This is not true, ladies and gentlemen, and I would not fix it if Mr Xanthopoulou did not say so, which I very much appreciate. And the previous provision of Article 105 of the Criminal Code and the current provision - if I am not mistaken, bears the number 105B - for the offences it provides for a real time to draw up the two fifths of the sentence, for the felonies it provides for three fifths and for those who are punished for life sentenced crimes, it provides for twenty-five years ago, it provides for nineteen now. The same time in the case of the members of the Golden Dawn is therefore the intended time of dismissal. You have reduced - and this should be accepted - by five years the proposed penalty threshold. That doesn't change. It's a reality, you have to accept it. Mr President, I have not wasted time. I just wanted to restore the legal order, so as not to start with false facts in order to develop and build up our arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u466	Good, Mr. Buga. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u467	That's for granted. He's not in doubt. 'Twenties' became 'fifteen'. That's not what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u468	Here you go, Mr. Symphony, you have the floor, and I apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday was a historic day, with an historic decision of the trialogue. After five and a half years and after the murder of Paul Physsa, the anti-fascist movement justifies Magda Physa, vindicates the sacrifice of Paul Physsa and puts us before us in office to continue the fight against fascism and Nazism to the end, to eliminate from everywhere the outbreaks that reproduce this spike egg. And here I would like to say a word, that we must all reflect on the old political system, the New Democracy and the then PASOK, which in 2010 brought the country into bankruptcy, which created a huge poverty in the Greek people, who created an unemployment of 27-28%, which created desperate people and exterminated them, as in other countries of Europe, such as their counterparts, their counterparts, the European People's Party has extinguished the countries of the South and especially Greece, as an animal, within the memoranda. Through there the womb was created to reproduce the fountains of fascism and Nazism. I'm stopping here. The fight's on. Secondly, regarding the bill. I will not deal with the first chapter on citizenship. I consider it to be stricter than the conditions of citizenship and to be stricter because it is consistent with the ideology of the New Democracy: Xenophobia and underlying racism. For that is exactly what touches on the reflexes of the conservative world to which it is addressed. That is why it is stricter than criteria. Third theme: Suffocation and party state. And in the administrations of legal persons - presidents, Vice-Presidents, advisers, etc. - and in local government, which I will then say, in all its majesty, the final party state wants to exercise suffocating control everywhere. What's he doing? After abolishing the executive register, you have accused us for many years of creating a party state. I can only remind you that the then Minister of the Interior, Nikos Voutsis, not to be accused, appointed coordinators of formerly decentralised officials to service and still have in their positions 80% to 90% today the general directors appointed by the Samaras government in November 2014. So what party state do you blame us for? You will appoint them with a five-member committee, which you control with three members and with molecularisation, which represents 50% of the criteria through an interview, that is to say, those who interview with your own people. Fourth issue: In local self-government crime it is a great crime to abolish the 'CLISTEN' law. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] A little tolerance, Mr President, since we have come from the islands. It is a crime that is great, therefore, because it completely cancels the functions of the municipal and regional councils and effectively devalues the local communities, who want to elect their own people through local initiatives, which do not necessarily match them with parties. Think about it very well. You have re-established the mayor of the regional, regional and local state through this logic and cancel any initiative that exists in the local society. You are strengthening the Economic Commission - for the mayor in question, especially now that you have a huge majority of the political approach to you - even in planning annual recruitments. Development agencies, anonymous companies: What are you building, Minister? What are you up to? You're building a substitute for local government. Why don't you strengthen local government directly? Call for competitions. You now have neither memoranda, nor budgetary stability, nor surpluses, nor any obligation, nor in 2020, nor in 2021. So, call a few thousands of positions in local government, go engineers, go geoponics, go technicians, go administrative officials, go vet, go everyone and let it make anonymous companies, local authorities. Why do you make them? To help local government, he says. And why don't you help her directly, directly, local government? Do you want a substitute for local government? Construction services, towns. You are speaking - and we see it positively on the islands - of creating sections with five engineers, first. I'm talking about the islands, I'm not talking about the major municipalities, where there's another problem. We in the Cyclades, in most islands, have no one or one who is in town and has four islands, and they also have five islands. Therefore, as a "Manna from heaven" we will see if a group of five people is created. But you actually say everything here. You say we make this as part of it, but, if there are no employees, we make inter-university cooperation. That is to say, we end up with today's model, where, because there is no townsmen, for example, in Mykonos, we have Syros to control Mykonos. Well, do you decide: will you or won't you be serving the towns? That's the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u470	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u471	And two more topics and I'll be done. Expenditure on the movement of personnel of the South Aegean Region in Cyclades. Do you know that you're paying them their expenses for at least six months? Do you know that there the movement doesn't necessarily mean a night's stay? For to go from Syros to Kea, he will wait two or three days for the next ship to return to Syros. You know that? And how are these people paid on the same criteria as those paid in the mainland? You can answer us. The South Aegean Region's Association of Officials asks for this on several occasions in the Cyclades. Finally, Article 46 presents it to us as no great achievement, that OTAs can feed and housing to civil servants. I inform you that this has been voted on by L.4483 of 2017 and by L. 4512 of 2018. What do you add? The detached in the municipalities and some services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u472	And hang up with this, Mr. Wireless, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u473	I'm closing, Mr. President. I'm done now. You are doing well, but not to present it to us and to the achievement of achievements that support is given to the islands through this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, too. Let Mr Alexander - Christos Aylonite come from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, I would like to speak only for an answer to Mr Buga as the parliamentary representative is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u476	Yes, but Parliamentary and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u477	It's just for this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u478	Mr. Raguss must say it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u479	Yes, but Mr. Raguss is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u480	Because Mr. Raguss is missing, it's not my fault. It's SYRIZA's fault. Come on, Mr. Alonite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, you will force us to do the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u482	Say what you want. I don't have a problem. I'll give you all the time. Your point is I'm not cutting it off. Here's Mr. Ragus, Mr. Raguss speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u483	However, this morning the other President gave the floor to Mr Syntagakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u484	I don't know what he did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u485	And she did well, of course! While the Parliamentary spokesman was not present, Mr Syntagakis was given the floor. And I think that is not the equal treatment of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u486	It is, it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u487	How is he? After the speech was given this morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u488	You're unfair. If we catch the minutes SYRIZA has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u489	You could give me a minute to read the law. I wouldn't do anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u490	You'll read it. It's not a matter. Let Mr. Ragus come and read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u491	I don't think he did it on purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u492	Come on, Mr. Alonite, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u493	Mr Bougas as majority rapporteur said a key phrase for the legal order. He's obviously a lawyer. But his entire placement ignores the legal order. Four hundred and fifty articles have the Criminal Code somewhere so much if I'm not mistaken. You choose as a government, as a party, Article 187. The question of abolishing the order is being chosen 'to impose the eventual penalty relating to the exercise of civil rights' and we are talking about a legal order. A piece of legislation, a Criminal Code which has been adapted to today's legal, scientific data, international data, and you are throwing it aside. And you get, if you have any information that's wrong, all the fifteen months that you've spent what you've been doing? What amendment do you make to the Criminal Code? Only for the issues relating to bankers. Do you remember them? Why don't you make all these amendments? You changed the agenda, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you think you have achieved it today after such a victory. And what you haven't done since yesterday to blame SYRIZA. And what you do not do as a party today to convince you that SYRIZA wanted by voting for a new Criminal Code not to impose the subsequent penalty for depriving civil rights. The SYRIZA government was not thinking about anything else when it passed the Criminal Code on the deprivation of civil rights. While Article 51(3) of the Constitution, which provides for when it supports the right to vote, refers to the age of the voter, if he has the right to act and if he has been sentenced irrevocably by a criminal court, which means that the electoral right is determined in relation to the relationship between a state and a citizen. You ignore that. And you find a legalist, a constitutionalist, who supports the view that the amendment we tabled cannot be accepted so that within the framework of the electoral law it will be banned if convicted, who will be condemned irrevocably, when the Golden Dawn arrives in the Marbles, does not have the right to participate in the electoral process. Who are you selling these to? Aren't they lawyers here? They're not legal? They didn't know? Who are you selling them to? Who are you kidding? Are you talking about SYRIZA and Golden Dawn? Are you talking that the most extreme right now exists in society is in your pockets after the dissolution of the Golden Dawn, which they go in? Are you saying that your Chief, the Prime Minister, two years ago, said that Golden Dawn is a finished case and that violence originates almost exclusively from the Left in recent years? May I remind you of your Member, Mr Papadimitriou, that other colleagues have said that we want a serious Golden Dawn to work together? May I remind you of Mr Baltako? Do you remember those taped chrysauge talks? May I remind you at the time when you were going together - have various colleagues said so - on the issue of the Presidencies Agreement? Are you talking to people in your government who are children or children of the Pattakus? Do you do what the Greek people don't know? Do we have that short memory? And you're talking about SYRIZA doing such designs through the resolution of the Criminal Code to support Golden Dawn? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You know the left part of which is SYRIZA, what rivers of blood have shed in the modern history of this place? And are you coming, Mr. Theodorikos, where were you Secretary of the NWO? You!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u494	What does that matter, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u495	It matters. It matters because you sold everything you knew. Whatever you've experienced, what you've experienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u496	Did you live the blood?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u497	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u498	But this morning, you hit Ragossi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u499	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u500	Am I ashamed? Where do you talk since this morning and you've been hitting SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u501	Please, Mr. Alonite! In the Bureau, Mr Aylonite, not dialogue. Mr. Theodorikos, please! Nobody interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u502	Please tell me. Yesterday you were talking about where the grand gathering was from where you heard and saw the court's decision? From the TV. Who were they outside the courtroom? The ones you're celebrating. Did you see how this grand gathering was dissolved after forty seconds and you speak? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The gaze of the world community was on yesterday. It's on Greece today. I may be a verbatim person, but I think I am right, I liked this trial as the 'Nuremberg Court'. Other colleagues did so too. And where were you? But today, you are saying a number of things about the Golden Dawn and you are sure that you - beware - started the trial and you finished it. But the trials as far as I know, Minister, start from justice and end from justice. Have you intervened in justice as you intervened with Mr. Paratroopoulou's case? And now you're telling us that we didn't do anything about the trial and the room. The Greek people know - Philis, Xanthopoulou, our sector leader in justice, said before - the trial began over the days of Samara. Then why didn't you make sure to find the room, tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u503	Please complete. And you haven't mentioned the bill at all. Please. You're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u504	I'm done. Mr President, I am the one who chooses what I will say, but in any case, you are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u505	No, there's a rule. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u506	So I'm just saying that everything you're saying today is to change the agenda. The agenda doesn't change at all. And to say two things that the President would quite rightly point out. Settings for the bill we're talking about, OTA settings. These, which have been happening in local government for some time now, have been hitting the core of self-government with your final state. And I say it's the one I've borrowed. And we've fought through local government. And there are former mayors here too. In the core, you've seen how many times have you intervened? Is the city council and the regional council disappearing and you gave it all to the economic committees and you're talking about democracy? You cut the simple analogue introduced by SYRIZA, why? What does that look like? Do you not trust the people who choose these municipal and regional consultants? How many have you appointed? And it seems through the bill we're discussing. How many have you appointed? Anyway. I'd like to say a lot. I think the first point, Mr President, was what I wanted to mention most. Only in this sense will I conclude by saying that fascism, Nazism and the decision made yesterday by the court. Nazism and fascism are every day ahead of us. And we must fight him and all the forces of the democratic arch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u507	Don't embarrass me. Let me say it again. Of course, the Member of Parliament must have an opinion on the current situation. He's in here. He has to say not only about the bill, but not all the time for the news, say about the bill. Because there is a Rules of Procedure, there is also an Article 66 which at some point has to be implemented. I accept that you must give your opinion. He's not a mute or he doesn't know what's going on outside the congressman. He knows and he's paradoxing, and he has to say. Well, let's go to Fhotida to Mr. George Kotroias from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u508	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, at this time of last year it is clear that one speaker has nothing to add which in one way or another has not already been heard. That is why I will confine myself to a few points which I consider to be facilitated and unblocked by public administration, so it makes citizens easier to produce work, so also makes the development of their homeland easier. But let me begin by talking to the ribbon what I have in my shirt. This symbolizes Persons’ Day in Dyslexia. It is a group of our fellow citizens and children who are numbering about forty million in Europe who, while being brilliant, are having problems writing, making and writing the speech and in need of our society's attention so that they quickly overcome these particular problems and move forward without feeling disadvantaged. After all, I do not know if you understood it, the Greek Parliament was enlightened in these colors a little while ago to emit here, from the heart of parliamentaryism, the message for children in dyslexia. However, I cannot go to SYRIZA's colleagues either. And the history of the Left and your rhetoric are anti-fascist. But it is true that your political practice over the past few years either with Kastelorizo or with the closure of the eye to vote for the simple analogy, or with the failures of your criminal code, has brought you into a position that, as much as I would like not to point out, is an apologetic and agonistic position. It's like something's boring you. You're doing this yourself. No one imposed this on you. An attempt to say perhaps that you are the only ones who express the anti-Russian and anti-Fascist struggle. I won't say anything else. But I would remind you that in the end the story will write that after five years, the Golden Dawn has been tried in a New Democracy and that five years ago Samaras and Dendia have literally wrapped them in a glue. I'm coming to the bill now. In its first part, it modernises the Code of Greek Nationality with certification of Greek names by exams, improves the administrative mechanism by removing the delays by creating a Directorate-General of Citizenship at the Ministry of the Interior, which will supervise the fifteen addresses, while setting up two new thematic regional addresses in Athens and Thessaloniki. The bill recasts with Article 7, Article 7b of the Code of Hellenic citizenship and abolishes paragraph 1 with the complex and time-consuming process that the services must follow to determine whether the foreigner is constantly staying in our country since the permanent residence in our country is now an essential condition for naturalization. Article 10 also simplifys the procedure for the submission of applications for the establishment of nationality of persons coming from Greek citizens. Finally, Article 17 deals with the question of subscribing services by setting up new organic posts. Let us see now how the bill facilitates the production of work in local government bodies. Allow me, as an old mayor, to tell you in the light of the knowledge that the ignorances and illegalities which occasionally are loaded upon the mayors in their overwhelming majority are due to the efforts of the mayors to quickly produce work for their citizens, often bypassing the rules and balance on dry acne between legality and irregularities. The bill, therefore, equates the JHA to the municipalities as regards the transfers of officials. Article 24 solves the problem of the renewal of contracts in order to carry out European programmes. Article 30 facilitates in particular small municipalities, and special consultants can now draw up studies and competition issues. Article 32 also allows technical staff serving under a project lease agreement to draw up and consider studies, as fixed-term contractors have up to now. Article 33 extends the scope of the operation of municipal development agencies by making productive and development tools for the benefit of the development of society. Under Article 34, ten years after the establishment and operation of the municipalities' construction services, they deal with staffing issues as well as with year-to-year certification. Of course, 45 completes the existing institutional framework for existing advertising. Not to say more. Finally, I think that it was necessary to extend workers' contracts at the "Help at Home" until the process of the IAS was completed. I am closing with these comments on a bill that facilitates the functioning of the public sector and local government, and I am sure it will contribute to the better performance of the project. That is why I believe that this bill should be voted on by the entire House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u509	Thank you, Mr Cotia, for your time. Now, Thessaloniki will show you, Mr. Notopoulou, what they're saying all in five minutes. Mrs Catherine Notopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u510	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all talking today about yesterday's great historical judgment of justice, about the vindication of Paul, the victims and the families. The Golden Dawn by court ruling. Great victory for democracy for the anti-fascist movement. The whole progressive world yesterday cried not by tear gas, but by tears of joy, emotion, pain, redemption, freedom. They didn't need your tear gas. You recruited them because you feared the palatarian mobilisation for the celebration, for the victory of democracy. But you can and you must put it very well anymore in your mind that no sort of suppression, no tear gas can tarnish that joy either. Instead, it is further persuading and strengthening our faith in the struggle for democracy. The left, the Greek people, have always fought. She was never afraid of repression. We have to talk today and say things as they are. The system for many years strengthened, gave space, tried to legitimize in the collective consciousness of the social body the Golden Dawn, the neonazis, fascist organizations and actions. Today, however, no one has the right to continue to give room to any kind of fascist attitudes and practices. No one can institutionalise fascist policies. No one can hug, mock the friendly fascism. No one has the right anymore to continue to promote the culture of fascism, neither through life style, nor through social media, nor by news. Nobody can tolerate friendly fascism. We are therefore coming to debate today - to pass the bill under discussion and vote - after yesterday's celebration, after yesterday's victory of democracy, the change in the acquisition of citizenship. Continuing changes in your bills. The Home Office has downloaded too much if I'm not mistaken. They're bills that you're trying to solve, in vain, of course, a number of key issues. I do not understand why you are reintroducing this issue. Since 2010, by the Ragosi law, let alone with the law passed by SYRIZA, a number of issues, problematic points relating to citizenship, had been resolved. So you come today to make a turn in the past, escaping again from the principles of Enlightenment. Why do you come back and take us so far? For the same reason you obviously split up with the historic presidencies' agreement. You call it historical now, and you fight. And quite rightly, as you are due. Let me remind you that you had filled Northern Greece with scalps, with horses, I don't remember what else you've been recruiting. To pet this right-wing audience. You find it extremely difficult to obtain Greek citizenship, despite some of the legislative improvements that you have brought in after the repeated suggestions - proposals for counter-population and all the bodies involved. You introduce criteria other than today's reality, from incomes to proof of cognitive skills. And really, I wonder how you've forgotten to ask "Syllician" seminars to learn the right Greeks as well. Instead of anointing the needs of society, you are playing again with the agony of people who live in our country for so many years. And it is played not for any other reason, but to hide under the carpet the poverty policies you bring to the Greek people. I'm really wondering, haven't you understood anything since yesterday's day? I say this because today it should have started a collective fight for the democratisation of the state and state, for deep democratisation. And you, instead of that, choose to enlist forces of repression and to legislate against each other. You are going backwards in the future. The Minister referred to the image of a modern democratic housed state. Behind this so-called modernisation, what you have hidden is no more than the recession, the poverty and the austerity policies you are bringing. In fact, you do nothing but work people, institutions and procedures. You won't make it. I'm continuing with the second chapter. Any hypocrisy. You're talking about excellence and dignity again. Your first move was to abolish the staffing of the agencies and boards of government by the Register of Officials. So don't see a worthwhile process, you're constantly trying to remove it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I do not know what example to mention, from the selection of primary and secondary schools, the administrations of hospitals, or to mention Mr Luli's second illegal appointment? First, he didn't have a degree. In the second, on the basis of your law of the State of staff, the law stipulates that a distinguished scientist or expert on tourism matters is required for this post. Mr. Lulis deals with flour. Second illegal assignment. Recipients' record: bring them now and give them a full term. Three thousand and up you've brought. I'll close my place with the hot issue of local government. From the first moment of your election, what you have done has been to prove the absolute devaluation you are feeding for local authorities. You are trying to turn mayors and district rulers literally into beggars. Fortunately, too many regional and many mayors across Greece refuse to accept this role and express with dignity the local communities and do not act as your press office. There are, of course, several of them. So from the first time of your election, we have seen a bleed of responsibilities from the municipal council and a performance of powers on the Economic Committee. No more permanent than the provisional. You used the coronary to legitimize direct assignments irrelevant: The great walk by Mr. Bakoyannis, the dangerous bike road of his cacassette in Thessaloniki, used buses, three without air conditioning. That's what you brought with the coroner. And now what the coronary has to do with the big walk, the dangerous bike road, only New Democracy can explain it to us. No one else can understand it. So I move on, saying: It is obvious in every piece of legislation you bring that your fear is obvious. Nothing else is behind these provisions. You have forgotten that local authorities have real needs and instead of meeting them, instead of giving them extra resources, instead of giving them the opportunity to recruit staff, instead of perpetuating "Help at Home" you insist on mocking the self-government and depriving the real democratic legitimacy of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u511	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u512	I'm coming down, Mr. President. No matter what the Pecha lists you bring, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you cannot hide either the racism or the discrimination that is the basis of your policy. You can't hide the intolerance you have about democracy, transparency and self-government. You cannot hide your inadequacy to manage any crisis. And of course, you cannot hide the bourgeoisie for direct assignments, the service of a few very specific interests. But many people will always give their answer. They would move on to the path of dignity, on the road of prophesying, development and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou. We'll go next door to Kilkis and Mrs. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u514	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I would also like to make a reference to the Golden Dawn trial and yesterday's day, because yesterday the people who gathered outside the court have given lessons. And most importantly, it has shown us that we must all be united in the face of fascism. Because we can only break this motto together. Our political system, however, since yesterday stands well below the circumstances. As of yesterday, the parties dispute what many years she has cared for the Golden Dawn and who finally put back on her dislocation. And those who today go to rob yesterday's vindication, remembered and proudly told us who was the one who pulled out the drawer the thirty-two criminal cases for members of the Golden Dawn, to start the trial, but they forget to say that they were the same as the ones who held them in the drawer, until the murder of Paul Bridge, so they were forced to pull them out, because they couldn't do anything else. They forget, too, that it was only last week that they went to the House to appoint the then subjugated and now guilty of participating in a criminal organisation of Helen Zarulia. Attention, then, why do people remember? And he remembers the Baltakus very well to the governments of New Democracy - PASOK speaking with the Golden Dawn all these years. And this coup d'état had Samaras, Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Venizelos and Minister of Government, the current Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis. So Mr Baltakos didn't think they'd be left alone for such meetings. I'm sure you all knew very well about these kinds of conversations and slispers. And for some, "All of us end up with the neonazis" is very daily than it seems. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, it seems from the history that the snake egg is hatched when reasonable hatred and toxicity are carried out in society against our fellow humans, logically higher and lower races, higher and lower classes. And what to say about the toxicity of SKAI journalists today about Paul Bryssa's mother and father. Magda Physsa, a journalist, said, was worldly and well-trained, although from Perama and unthinked, they said, and from a social mattress that you don't expect such behavior, they said. So these logics and other similar things are the ones that need to be feared. Because these are the systemic causes of fascism. And unfortunately, the reasons are still here. Even within Parliament, in the very recent past, they heard voices that some are more Greek than others or some are more patriots than others. I am talking about the Prespecies Agreement, which you are now afraid to bring about ratification in this House, because you have electionally mocked the world with what you were saying. And to go to today's citizenship bill again, there's reason that some are more capable than others to be naturalized by Greeks or that you're not being born by Greeks. We have heard this at the meetings of the committees here. It is dangerous, however, and we in this House must first stop them. In particular, for the bill and articles on citizenship, the Minister told the committees and stressed it the impartiality of the procedure, but in which the Citizens' Ombudsman does not seem to agree, Minister. The organisations are also talking about tightening up procedures, involving class-based bias. And even though you've made changes in the right direction, we think you can do better. As far as the second chapter is concerned, the choice of administrations in the public sector here, in fact, the articles that we are discussing are nothing but the continuation of the process that you have already started since 2019 to party as much as you can with the state mechanism. In 2019, you started with the abolition of the executive register, because for you it was not objective and impartial, while the list of your election ruptures you finally used was more objective and impartial. The truth is that you have taken care of them all, and indeed, so unequivocally that you have not even placed a degree as an essential condition in many cases. And all this, in fact, with great masturbation. Because you have not given your citizens positions on the constituencies which are politicising, but on adjourned constituencies, do not deprive them of the right to return to the elections, not to have any coma. Very clever. And good for you. But you didn't stop there. You did something else. Basically, you do what goes through your hand in all areas of partyism. In the NSRP special management services, for example, where the selection of heads did not fall under the Vernardakis Law, but in another procedure initiated by SYRIZA through an aptitude system with exams, file filing, modulation, where they were not able to finish these procedures at SYRIZA, you have just undertaken this amazing process: so that you do not have to follow the process that SYRIZA had established until the end, you abolished the existing administrative structures and reopened them with another name to cancel the top evaluation procedures. I think you know that, Minister, because it happened in your ministry, as well as in the Ministry of Economy and Development and in the Ministry of Digital Governance. It's your regular tactic. She's brilliant. I can't say. It does not, however, refer to the state's abstraction, but to exactly the opposite. It is therefore no exaggeration to say that the state has been operating under a permanent derogation from the principles of merit and good procedure for a year. The provisions you bring here are purely forgiving once again. I will not extend to the articles on local government, which are in a completely opposite direction to SYRIZA's law on simple analogues. You have responsibilities under the municipal councils and are given powers in favour of economic committees. This is not the way of operating self-government that we want. That is why we are opposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. And thanks for the tolerance. With regard to the 'Help at home' programme, you are forced to give another extension to workers' contracts, because fourteen months now you have done absolutely nothing. Keep moving the procedures. We've given them ready for you. Give a definitive solution to the issue of permanent recruitment for these people who have made a major contribution to the proper functioning of this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, too. To the Tower of Elias and Mr. Dionyssis - Charalambos Kalamatiano from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u517	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u518	Ladies and gentlemen, I will also make a reference to the court's historic decision on the trial of the Golden Dawn, a decision on justice, on the rule of law, on our democracy that goes beyond the limits of Greece and becomes an ecumenical one. It is one of the most important judicial decisions following the Nuremberg trial, because apparently individual incidents were gathered and attributed to this Nazi motto the charge and conviction as a criminal organisation. It is a decision that has been saluted by all democratic progressive citizens, while creating a strong and unscrupulous anti-fascist front. This court judgment is really great. But the battle, with darkness, fascism, Nazism, racism, hatred for the other, for the weak, is everyday. Daily must also be confrontation with poverty, impoverishment, social inequalities, xenophobia, lying, and distortion that hatches the snake's egg. I now come to the lies that New Democracy officials and friendly journalists are passing through and reproducing. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is irreversible and cannot be discounted. We remember - and we do not forget - that the current Prime Minister himself was washing off Golden Dawn two years ago, saying that Golden Dawn is as if it does not exist. Violence has come almost exclusively from the Left in recent years. The unbelievable and dangerous theory of both ends was at the forefront of your arguments. I hope you will now stop putting it and invoking it. Former journalist and current New Democracy MP said there could be a conservative alliance with a more serious Golden Dawn. Your MPs were with MPs and members of the Golden Dawn in the squares for the rallyings for the Ambassadors' Agreement. Such meetings of SYRIZA MPs with Members of the Golden Dawn will not be found in antimonetary gatherings. To end the lies about the delay of the trial, the Golden Dawn trial began in 2015 on the government of SYRIZA. The Government of New Democracy had not even taken care of the existence of a room so that it could be completed under the appropriate conditions. If the SYRIZA government had not taken a number of institutional steps to speed up the trial, it would have lasted for years yet. He started the creation of new rooms at the court of appeal and the hall was released, which was designated as an area for the trial. In the case of Michalis Kafleuros, the Court provided for the dismissal of the members of the Court of Justice from other obligations relating to the expeditation of the proceedings. They were also set more than fifteen on a month-by-month basis. The Physsa family lawyer herself acknowledged that these measures were positive for the time of completion and that the delay was due to the indictment of the accused. With regard to the new Criminal Code, I would remind you that it has been drawn up by a Special Legislative Committee and after 10 years of work. In this committee they were not SYRIZA members. On this committee, they were top professors, judges and lawyers. It provides for greater and effective criminalisation in relation to the old Criminal Code. With the old Criminal Code sentences were nominally greater. But it may have been bigger paperwork to understand people, but it was finally a smaller part of them. On the contrary, in the new Criminal Code, the sentenced ones serve more than the penalty imposed. Of course, final responsibility for the precise date and application of the provisions of the law always belongs to the court which applies them. In addition - and I note this - the New Democracy, as a government, has reviewed the new Criminal Code on individual provisions. But nothing has changed as far as - supposedly - it is annoyed today. What the government has rushed to legislate by changing the Criminal Code was to release the assets of those controlled for dirty money laundering, as well as to protect bank executives controlled for infidelity. With regard to the deprivation of civil rights, even under the previous Criminal Code and under the Constitution, the deprivation of civil rights would come only when the judgment was made irrevocable, that is to say, in ten years from now. There should be a decision of the ice Arrow to do this. What has now to be done, as has been pointed out by the Criminal Code Legislative Committee, is an amendment to electoral legislation. It is the responsibility of the Commission to deal with these issues. Anachronistic was what was foreseen in the Criminal Code. In this way, the issue of proclamation of political parties and elephant parties will be regulated. What it has not been possible to do because of the early elections from the previous government, that is, a month after the changes in the Criminal Code, should have done so by the current government, which has not done anything for a year and a half. We have brought an amendment and you have rejected it. So stop falsifying truth and see the data. Now I'm coming to the bill. Once again bring a bill to the vote - broom with many different and unconnected themes. Overall it is characterised as conservative and backward. In the first part of the bill concerning the acquisition of Greek citizenship, you found a splendid field again to pete the ears of the far right audience. The Presidencies' Agreement is no longer available for that. You are now applying it, honor it and fight for it. You have forgotten the renegotiation you have made and the veto for the accession of Northern Macedonia to the European Union. In the second part you bring provisions on the selection of administrations in the public sector, and I wonder if, after the record of seven years, you remembered the election slogan for so-called government of the excellents in May of this year. I wonder, of course, whether you have left some part of the public sector to which you have not placed any of the members of the New Democracy registry. Within a year we have seen the full partyisation of the state. You are now voting that the degree from the National School of Public Administration receives the same moleculosis as the possession of any postgraduate regardless of relevance. This is the undividedness that you are imprisoned for. Just one word about 'Help at home'. SYRIZA's government recognized the value, supported and upgraded the institution. The delay in completing the tender is unexplained. You must complete it. The draft law, therefore, needs many improvements in order to align itself with the rule of law and European requirements. Once again, prove conservatism, concentration that stirs the style and practice of your governance. You were elected with the flag of liberalism, progress and merit. You do the opposite. The people are watching and judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u519	Thank you very much, Mr. Kalematian. The reason is from New Democracy Mrs. Friday Bryzidou from beautiful Ptolemaida. Now look, she'll tell them without paperwork in front of her, and what a pretty thing to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, democracy was born in Greece and the Greek people in its overwhelming majority are the people who are struggling against fascism and all undemocratic behaviour. There is no need for the Greek certificate of progression because it has always been in the right place and has been recorded in history. The Greek governments defended democracy. And the current government and, more generally, the New Democracy over time has stopped undemocratic behaviours with concrete decisions, with the adoption of laws and actions that have achieved this result. With works the attitude of each one proved to be. The Greek people who have spent so much, especially in recent times, have a crisis and today they want works and effectiveness. From the side of SYRIZA we have heard this day and the previous words great and much, but what counts is the actions and the results. It was against fascism, with great words, but when it was necessary and contributed there was no problem with a joint vote, because a bill had to be passed. I do not want to expand, because I do not want to be what I blame, that is, against xenophobia, against racism, against hatred, but with hatred, hard words and controversy between the political parties, if that is what it is for political purposes. Oh, no! In the big events we will be united so that we can fight and bring results. This bill is a very important bill once again and it brings about important arrangements. First he deals with self-government and does not start today, but looks back and tries to heal gaps in the law of mere analogy that was passed by the previous government. Municipal councils and municipal authorities are not places where everyone goes to discuss their philosophical view and testify. They are places where everyone has to give their opinion freely, but at the end of the day, decisions must be made to implement projects, to solve problems of helping the citizen. This cannot be done to a municipal authority that cannot govern and make decisions. That is why they came to previous legislative proposals and were voted on today to give the Economic Commission power, for why? In order to be able to make decisions and implement projects. This is how municipal authorities and mayors are assisted, but you cannot blame the Ministry and the government for this decision. Why does all mayors belong to New Democracy? Self-government and local society are being helped. Also, decisions are made to use engineers who are under contract or advisers to be able to carry out studies, mature studies, incorporate projects and auction them. He commented on this, too. We all know that the country needs money, European money, which must be exploited and not returned back. It has been said many times that we were unable to use them because we had not matured the studies, because we did not have engineers in all the services. Now, then, we are organizing the placement of such engineers with various methodologies and instead of praise for the benefit that will come to our country and secure jobs and progress has been made. Why? What is the problem in this process? Also, the "Help at home" programme continues until the definitive recruitment procedures are completed, so that both beneficiaries and employees can continue their work uninterruptedly. I would also like to refer to the articles on the staffing of public administration. There is also a big mistake here. From the standpoint of Antipoliticism, mostly on the side of SYRIZA, words of style were said: Placement of days. Anxiety. There are no criteria. The specifications are inconsistent. Is there really anyone who believes that a government wants less than the opposition to have in positions of management boards and presidents of agencies worthy of managers? What should I expect? To satisfy five people and because of their inadequacy to displease hundreds of citizens? Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Ministry of Interior with the Minister and all the executives have shown that they are interested in producing work to satisfy and serve the place, society, citizens, to combat unemployment and through these benefits we will also receive the praise of the citizens. So there is no question of anxieties. The government more than anyone wants to be worthy, so it puts these rules in order to approach deservedness in the best way possible and to marginalize subjectivity. Finally, I would also like to refer to naturalisation, a large chapter which is also being modernised. It enables people who have been prepared and want to incorporate into Greek society to give tests pan-Hellenic twice a year, to prepare themselves accordingly and to have competence in Greek, to know the history, the geography of the country and no suspicion of subjectivity. If they are well prepared and if they truly love our place and want to adapt to our rules in our perspectives of progress, they can fight through this process that guarantees justice and dignity. Finally, I congratulate the Ministry for giving the opportunity to the mountain regions and the islands, like my own in the Kosani Prefecture, from where I come from, which have often been called the places of subsidiary doctors for health centres and hospitals and there was no proposal, because we are remote areas, the circumstances are unfavourable, there are many costs. Municipal authorities are given the opportunity to subsidise food and accommodation. It's a big advantage. We believe that this will also be a reason for teachers and teachers and firefighters, generally service actors, who have never dared to come in the past. It's a big help for our region. We thank and encourage the Ministry to continue with such actions, to look at the people who have difficulties, such as us, to be a state of law and to have equal opportunities for all children in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u521	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. And it is time for Mr Christos Spirtzi, MP of the Eastern Attica by SYRIZA, to ask the Minister his question. And because you're last, I'll give you five minutes! You found me in my good ones!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u522	Mr President, thank you from the outset for your tolerance of five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and yesterday's victory of democracy and the rule of law does not allow us to speak in the narrow context of the draft law, although I will attempt to link the draft law to the historic decision. It is indeed happy that the vindication of the murdered Paul Bryssa, his family, the victims of the Golden Dawn, of those who fought against fascism is today welcomed by all the parties in Parliament. And it is truly hopeful, but also important, for our Republic to hear Members of all the parties plead happy and justified. The fight against fascism, Nazism, in every fascist logic or attitude, is and must be continuous, lasting, everyday. It must therefore be understood by all of us that we must not forget the history of our country, the struggles of our people against fascism, the mistakes made to develop the nazi and fascist structures. We must fight for fascism every day, every action, every action, every place. We therefore expect the fascist perception and fascist practices to be condemned wherever they exist and where we have recently heard. For example, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we expect the concept that we recently heard from Kyriakos Mitsotakis and from Government ministers that "we do not want to gain you for what you have done, but for what you have believed". It's a fascist statement. At the heart of fascism is this mentality. We expect you to condemn the practices of the doctrine "law and order", which you have transformed into "terror and clamp", to invade, in other words, the police in the homes of the world for no reason, tie them up, beat them, invade the police in shops and put the citizens of the knees, let the few far-right elements of the police go into acts of police violence, embarrassing the vast majority of the democratic policemen and, of course, insulting democracy and Greek society, to be terrified by police students who are involved in occupations and mobilizations, ask the police to record the evidence and positions of the parents of the students who are involved in the occupations, to disperse after a few seconds from Paul Physsa's mother, Magda Physa, the decision to rule, when the scene of the appeal was completely safe. Police say it was sterile space with two and a half thousand policemen and fenced by police cages. The tens of thousands of citizens were living together peacefully without permission, as your bill provides, circumventing and ending in practice the bill that you recently voted and expressed with emotion and a truly simple but very substantial applause, very semantic, the vindication of the anti-fascist struggles. Why were we afraid of converting the concentration into a democratic celebration of justice and dismantling it? Why? And I would like to point out that the delegation of your Members who went outside the court of appeal participated in a meeting that had not been authorised. And you, that is, we abolished in practice the bill you voted on a while ago. I cannot see that after the dissolution of the peaceful gathering you tried to cross the end line. It didn't work that out, and then you started the paraphilology with the Criminal Code. Minister, from your political point of view and from your family, you know very well that the issues of civil rights in the Criminal Code are a fascist concept that was institutionalised in the dark at the moment of the country, at times when the political position of every citizen who was not right was reached in files, surveillance, drying, militia and deprivation of civil rights. And, of course, this criticism of the Criminal Code in relation to civil rights, if it lived in the criminal code, perpetuates a fascist legislative concept that comes from the hard right, from the EPE, from the post-war period. Is it possible today that all the wings welcome the historic decision to say such things? We must therefore establish obstacles and prohibitions on electoral law and not perpetuate fascist perceptions in the Criminal Code. It was rightly abolished in the Criminal Code. And is it reasonable to find that the economic crises, marginalisation and the pooring of large parts of the people have not taken place on the Golden Dawn, Nazism and Fascism? Aren't these economic crises born of the great accumulation of wealth? It's the basic principle of capitalism. Weren't they born when man's exploitation was terminated? Another basic principle of capitalism. Does xenophobia, racism, populism not find ground then, when there were conditions of economic crisis, poverty and unemployment? When were they born? When we had redistribution of wealth, when we had conditions of social justice? Didn't fascist forces exploit populism? Didn't the media use our country to become part of the star system? We therefore welcome the condemnation of fascism by the Members of the New Democracy. Your next step is to condemn capitalism and enter the principles of socialism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u523	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u524	I have your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u525	You've got my tolerance for two minutes and you haven't talked about the bill yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u526	Let us also go to the bill, Mr President, to link the current draft law to the fight against fascist practices that breed fascism. Is it not or is it not a fait accompli to illegally transfer powers from the municipal and regional councils, where the mayors and regional directors of the New Democracy do not have a relevant majority in institutions such as the Economic Commission, which you have made sure that they have an absolute overwhelming majority? Is this a circumvention of popular will? What is it? Is it or is it not a fascinating idea to remove the first cell of democracy that is the local councils? What are you afraid of and abolished? Is the CEDEFOP still not there to blame you for what the current draft law on its resources provides for and you to continue? Is it or isn't it after so many changes to development agencies? And we said we'd speak with names. I was found by a New Democracy official and he says to me: 'Don't say the names of development organizations', such as 'PARONA' and 'ANCO' that I mentioned. However, one of the two development companies yesterday, when the amendment was tabled, put on Facebook songs and celebrated, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u527	Finish it, Mr. Spirtzi. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u528	How can we not believe him? Look at it, you guys check it out with your partners! Is it or isn't it? Does not it develop any fascist perceptions, when all that happens, changes in legislation, transparency, control mechanisms, the Court of Auditors' decisions have been circumvented by an alibi of the coronary and what is happening? Not with the "big walk", not with the broken cooking in the Attica Region, with other issues that have seen the light of publicity, "with abbreviated procedures" - I read here in the news - "5 million for the Gender Hill, with the assignments to lawyers when the regional council has rejected Mr. Patoulis the recruitment of his lawyer from the Municipality of Amarousi, to come again with the vote of the Golden Dawn party to pass it, without a competition, based on the elasticisation of the procedures you have instituted." Don't they cultivate fascist perceptions? Don't they cultivate populism? And...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u529	And close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u530	Mr. President, I'm closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u531	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u532	You have chosen the millennium amendment for development agencies and development companies. You did well and did not dismantle the LEADER programme and the fisheries programme. Well, you did, because it would be a great wound to the region and to the development companies, but know one thing, that development agencies with 3% of individuals mean that there are no program contracts with the public. They are decisions of the Court of Auditors and from now on we will not close our eyes. We call on all democratic and progressive citizens - even democratic citizens who join the New Democracy area in responding to local government and must understand that they too are reacting - to appeal against these practices, as the CEDEFOP will do. He pulled it off a press release a little while ago. And we hope, hope and urge the Government of the New Democracy not to continue the mutation and from New Democracy to become a new EIA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u533	Thank you, too. Mr. Hatzyannakis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u534	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u535	No, that's good. Nor that minute do you want - it's passed now - so I won't leave you with the grievance on your lips, not anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u536	No, I have an answer to this question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u537	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u538	Mr President, aren't we going to dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u539	No, the only ones to be entitled are Mrs Bakadima and Mrs Agerinopoulou, they are not entitled to any others, the rest of you have spoken, you have closed it. From a minute with my tolerance, yes, but you have no dentistry because you have all completed "twenty-two", "twenty-three". Only Mrs Bakadima and Mrs Agrinopoulou have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u540	Where do these come from, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u541	From these moments I have, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u542	No, we didn't use it, Mr. President. There has been the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u543	No tolerance for the Bureau, I say what I see here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u544	Are we going to negotiate our seconds, Mr President? If we want to use it, we will, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u545	No, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u546	What a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u547	As long as we're right, we'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u548	That's what I'm saying, as long as you're entitled. You're not entitled! That is what I say, Mr Symphony, that you are not entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u549	What you're saying is arbitrary!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u550	You have a minute, Mr. Hatzyannakis, for what you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u551	I want to understand whether we're going to do a dentistry or whether I'm just putting myself on the legal question that was raised about the Criminal Code, so I know. If anyone doesn't do a dentistship, I don't want to do it, and I can't just sit there for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u552	We'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u553	If you do a dentistry, we'll do it, too, it's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u554	We haven't even exhausted the time of protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u555	We don't disagree, we don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u556	All right, we're taking it backwards. Mrs. Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u557	I'll be very brief, I'll try to use just one minute. I would not ask to speak and I will not be placed on the bill for a comment, she made reference to this earlier Mrs Agathopoulos, but especially as MEP II Piraeus I cannot leave it in a position. I cannot leave the particular classic - believe me, I am charged enough because I have been talking since the morning with a lot of people in the second Piraeus - a comment that Mrs Mandrou made on a SCAI morning show, saying that she is a woman who is not intellectual from the Perama who was well-integrated and expressed in the world, although in such social strata you are not expecting such behaviour. In fact, he wondered - with Mr Economou agreeing - 'truly, have you ever seen her go unscrupulously to court?' These were the remarks, these were the words that a journalist, a woman for a mother who not only lost her child, not only had to bear that burden, but had to accept the eerie inside and outside the courtroom of the Golden Dawn. She tried to reconstruct it by Mrs Mandrou saying she talked about her appearance to show her structured personality. First of all, since when does the appearance relate to the made-up or non-personality? And I want to close by saying that the people of the 2nd Piraeus – the Magdal Bridge and Paul lived in Keracini – the people of all the municipalities of Piraeus are people with dignity, people who do not bend, who have learned to fight for their faith and for their lives. I am very proud to represent them in Parliament, and I do not allow Mrs Mandrou or anyone to deceive them. The Second Piraeus has a story that all of us should respect and honor and no one should deceive it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u558	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. I don't know if Mrs. Mandrou is a mother, so she can understand Mrs. Bridge. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u559	Thank you, Mr President. And I won't use more than a minute and a half. After four meetings of the committees, the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after ten, twelve hours of meeting today - a confessly open sitting - has been consumed - and it has been well consumed - on this issue which, over the last two days, employs the Greek people. This is the issue, as you can see, of the court's decision, a very honest, wise and - if you would like - of the court's only fair decision on the officials and certain members of the Golden Dawn who have committed felony acts. However, from the outset it appeared that SYRIZA once again opened a debate with Mr Ragosi, his parliamentary representative, on this subject, when the party itself had changed, it had amended the Criminal Code. Explanations have been given, I think that Mr Lebanon, at some point, has said that an effort needs to be made. It is a great effort, but it must end up. Mr Spirjis quite rightly said that we should eventually go to electoral legislation to legislate. I think that's the right thing to do. But we must soon, ladies and gentlemen, put an end to this issue which concerns Greek society. Now, on the subject of the bill itself, Ministers, it insists on the Greek Solution, cannot be given, given citizenship to foreigners, immigrants of illegal, refugees or illegal immigrants. It's the process, we can make it natural and give citizenship. Anything else we can say I think it's in the wrong direction. As far as OTAs are concerned, some articles are in the right direction, such as 'Help at Home' and some others, but they still show a hard state that is being transferred to local government, and we need to rethink it, to look at them, because we will find them in front of us and then you will want to rechang them again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u560	Thank you, Mr Mylonakis. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u561	Thank you, Mr President. Today, both the New Democracy and SYRIZA were engaged in a race of streets, sweating in literality, in order to prove or overcome one another in anti-fascistness, to whom is the most anti-fascist. It shows, however, how guilty both - and overall the urban political system - are - of the tolerance they have shown all these years to the Golden Dawn. It turns out that the change of the Criminal Code with a SYRIZA government both in terms of the anticipated penalty framework for the criminal organisation, as well as in terms of deprivation of civil rights, created preconditions for better criminal treatment of the Nazi criminal organisation "Gold Dawn" and the New Democracy maintained it. I would refer you to the Minutes on 6-6-2019 in this Chamber, when the Penal Codes Bill was being discussed, and when only the Communist Party of Greece had told you what I will tell you below. And let me say it, because no other political force, although protesting from the outset left the debate on the bill in plenary, was placed not exactly in this way. The Communist Party of Greece, then, said: "According to the particular issue of the crime of the management of the criminal organization, that is to say Article 187 of the Criminal Code, in which the leadership of the Nazi criminal organization, the Golden Dawn, has been tried, the government, after the outcry it has experienced, has been folded, but not entirely, since in the final provision that brings for a vote yes the address is punishable separately with a heavier penalty, but the penalty that is threatened for the offence in question is from 5 to 15 years, instead of 10 to 20, as foreseen by the current provision. It was not confined to reducing the maximum penalty for all felonies from 20 to 15 years, but it also reduced the threshold from 10 to 5 years. We denounce this unacceptable process of fast track, which is why you are attempting to vote on the new codes, not only..." - I say this now - 'as an anti-institutional tactic, as the other parties were saying at the time, and which is why they left, but mainly or at the same time, for the reactionary to the contents of their orders. We do not legalise it and leave it from the debate.’ That is what the Communist Party of Greece said in this Chamber. So let the rotten SYRIZA and the New Democracy leave the rotten things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you should silence or at least accept the amendment tabled by the JRC. Because who is responsible for the fact that they now have the right to stand in the next elections, parliamentary elections, European elections, municipal elections and regional elections? SYRIZA doesn't have it, New Democracy doesn't have it, who has it? "Here's a priest, there's a priest, where is the priest?"! Who's responsible? So we don't go crazy in here! We have tabled a specific proposal to you - an amendment concerning measures on the total condemnation of the Nazi criminal organisation 'Golden Dawn' and a denial of it with various terminology, such as the fact that Article 51 does not guarantee the right to 'election' and 'elected' for criminal organisations. We have also raised the question of the fact that the self-righteous deduction from the post of municipal authority can be made by direct application and provided for by this amendment, such as the equitable deduction from the post of seat of regional administration, as well as for a Member of the European Parliament. And deny that thing! So you have very serious responsibilities. The JRC has fought both inside and outside Parliament, so that the people's demand - because it is a people's demand - can also be made a judgement of the court. In other words, the court was harmonized with the popular demand. Finally, I come to the amendments. You have brought three ministerial amendments. So let me say this here, Mr President. We may have said that the amendments have been put into protology, but here a number of amendments, particularly Members, have been tabled in some way. First of all, as far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, there are three ministerial amendments with seventeen articles, one more bill. And that is not all, but in a completely undemocratic way you oblige the parliamentary groups to vote as a whole on the amendments, regardless of whether in some articles they want to say 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. This is blackmail! In other words, you are blackmailing the vote of the parliamentary groups. In the Ministerial Amendment No 495 and a special number 51 say'represent', and at the same time we say 'yes' in some cases, for example in the health harm of an official in the performance of his duties. We cannot disagree, although it does not cover accidents at work in the Civil Service Code. But in any case, we want to say 'yes'. Why do you not give the right to a single amendment to separate the articles of this amendment so that we can express ourselves with 'yes', 'yes' or 'no'? And in Amendment No 501 and in Amendment No 57, we will say 'no' as a whole, particularly as regards the amendment on the VHSF, because we consider that the VHSF is promoting the marketing of waste as a profitable field for business groups. Also, 'no' will be said in the LAG operating arrangements, as will the project leasing contracts for the cleaning of schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u562	Mr Colleagues, it will appear in your vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u563	For sports clubs, we will vote'residents' because, Mr President, the government transfers - and it has the responsibility of state to grant sports clubs annually - the responsibility of sponsoring sports clubs to the municipalities, to the first and second grades of Local Government. And it does so, while the central government itself has a responsibility to fund sports clubs. You will tell me 'not to be financed, not to function sports clubs'. Yes, and that is why we will say 'the present'. But we will not say 'yes', because, at the same time as you say to be subsidised by the municipalities, you have the prerequisite to be registered in the online sports register, which means that the vast majority of sports clubs will be thrown out and their operation will even stop. Finally, I come to the parliamentary amendments. In the two amendments, namely Amendment No 489, and Amendment No 48, we say 'yes', as we say in Amendment No 499 and specific Amendment No 53. In Amendment No 507, with a special reference to 63, we say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u564	Mr Colleagues, this will be the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u565	Mr President, we shall also say 'yes' to the Ministerial Amendment Nos 502 and 52. The two articles contained in this amendment concern the shortening of deadlines for the issuing of positions of qualified ESS doctors and the participation of doctors in examinations for the award of a qualification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u566	Thank you very much. The reason is now Mrs Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u567	We, Mr President, will speak for a minute. Mr President, today was a special day. The end of the day confirms its beginning. It took an entire day to go to the Step of the House and finally to tell the truth about the Party of Officers, to tell us and to reveal that the king was naked and finally completely aware of the party of Officerial Representation and then the government, the SYRIZA - ANEL, by undermining his far right wing, which was his partner, the party, the politician and the government, with his tolerance, corrected the point that was disturbing the Criminal Code. It was therefore a perception, said Mr Spirtzis, a conscious choice to abolish the deprivation of civil rights. So, whatever we've been hearing until 24.00 hours, from morning until now, gentlemen of Officer Opposition, have been a lie. You were actually lying to us. Finally, decide when you tell the truth and when you lie to Parliament! Is it possible for us to have all this, like breakfast? Because, Mr President, we would not be here at this hour. But the morning show lasted three hours and concerned the so-called amendments that would come and phrases, such as 'do it now' and squeeze our fingers. And who's swinging the finger? Who is it to? And it is revealed with mildness that Mr. Spirtzis, who came to answer both Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Paradapopoulos, because the academy of Aeolos and the winds, as you can see now, are roaming around and has begun to become the "do not discuss". So we have and say: The bill on the clay is this: the SYRIZA government has renounced this piece of legislation, to do the favour of the right wing, as I have said. Let them apologise to the whole world who wonders who is responsible for this abolition. The second point is this: this is not a party such as the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Colleague, to say so, which has not been governed and which has not been successful and which has not been provoked. SYRIZA did it. It has had four and a half years to correct the failure that it saw as having the system, to correct and to rationalise penalties, as the lawyers say. So he didn't do that, and he's swinging his finger. Finally, I would like to say this: because they are worth not showing, but we have to show them in the world, in order to understand and what we say between you and me, you have a question, a point. But what about the junk of the case? Here, in this respect, at the core of today, what is the conclusion? So how did you end up? The number '50', therefore, of Mr Spirtzi as speaker, is a catalyst. But, Minister, look, the essence of democracy is another one, that's not it. The point is that the Change Movement and the other parties, as my colleague of the Communist Party said, have tabled amendments to address this issue. Because democracy is going on for us, and because policy needs to give answers as part of its very life-threatening problems in everyday life, but also in major political issues, we must see very seriously how we deal with this gap that exists now and how we can respond to phenomena such as the one that is empty. We are talking about the deprivation of civil rights by convicted anymore of a criminal organisation and as natural persons, but above all we are interested in as parties, namely how they cannot be proclaimed, how they cannot participate in the elections, how they cannot hold office, even if the decision is not irrevocable. This is a very long constitutional debate. We tabled this amendment, which you did not accept. But it is a basis, Minister - and so I think you should see it - a starting point for a broad debate, which needs to be held in a intergroup context, in our understanding, because in any case, regardless of the show, regardless of the individual political views that exist, the issue needs to be resolved. That must be the guide. That must be our strategy. It has to be solved. Ultimately, it would be a real victory for democracy if it could be solved with national unity, unity and a stiff social and political front, which will identify once again strong and clear what is a constitutional arch and what belongs to the forces of the democratic constitutional arch.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u568	Thank you very much, Mrs. Liikali. Mr Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, while I was saying that I was very concise about the closure of the process, I see a procedure which does not honor us, does not honor those who see us, those who have endured, of course, or those who will read what position each party has taken tomorrow. To be very clear and quickly into the jungle, I would say that I see an attempt to constantly distort, lasting communication show from too many in here and, unfortunately, from all parties. To see from the government's side trying to justify its own legislation or its own actions or omissions, to understand it. Seeing from opposition parties, like now the colleague of the Change Movement...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u570	I heard Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u571	Because you heard Mr. Spirtzi...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u572	Didn't you hear him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u573	...to be very specific, because maybe we're not being understood, or maybe we're also to blame and not to speak very well to the Greeks, not to express them very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u574	He's a very good speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u575	Because he is a very good speaker, then, I too would like to do the translation if some ears were not understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u576	Oh, it's the ears.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u577	Obviously it was political - and not just - choice of changing the Criminal Code. It was from the previous government. It was voted on and was the result of a 10-year-old job not by the SYRIZA government, but by previous governments. And as we have said many times, the Legislative Committee does not even know if it had one voter in SYRIZA. He had authoritative lawyers who ended up and that is why the Criminal Code has been congratulated at the time when the majority of the legal world was confronted and mainly by the legal associations of the country, because the Criminal Code was outdated and used to change. Obviously, in the course of the changes that took place, because it was the requirements of the times, there had to be reliefs of penalties and someplace rationalization. In this case, because of the use made, I now reply to the second part of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative on our own claim that the penalty has been reduced from five to fifteen for all crimes of similar gravity. It is not just for 187, to be clear. I read to you what the law says today, because my colleague is right to be 3/5, as he was in the previous legal regime, but he either did not notice or avoid telling us when someone is out of prison, because you are coming out of prison on conditional dismissal, as all those who have even done a felony in their careers know. Thank God we've done some felony in our career. In the case of dismissal, therefore, in Article 6, what we have said and what we have claimed is that while under the former regime it was necessary to lodge an application for dismissal of 1/3, it is now 2/5. With a very simple arithmetic act, one understands that 40% of the sentence to be able to exercise his right to be released is more than 33%. It's just arithmetic. It is simply reading Article 6(6). So, in order not to create impressions, we were very clear about what we said. The Criminal Code has been changed to the full legal world of Greece and these offences have been streamlined. The maximum penalty may be reduced, but whatever penalty the court decides tomorrow on heavier terms than those in force. We must be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u578	You answered, Mr. Hatzyannakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u579	What Mr Spirtzis said, to answer this question, is that the Legislative Committee also said that the previous Criminal Code was a legislature of the 1950s. It was 1950! Obviously, in the 1950 ’ s, with the completely different political circumstances today, he had as incidental sentences and deprivation of freedom. The legislator said that they should leave there, because they are no longer the data in 2020, and they must be put in as an impediment to election, for example - and that is where I will agree with the Communist Party - in the self-government elections. There are blockages that are completely different from those of the Constitution. I mean, it doesn't limit the Constitution, because they have extras. Here, as a municipal counselor or a mayor, if you owe five grand to the municipality, you can't have election. So - and see this, Minister, because the Communist Party of Greece is right - on a self-government level, because there are self-government, unfortunately, elected, elected, elected, elected, elected, elected, elected, members of this gang, we can easily legislate very quickly, without any commitment from the Constitution. I say it handy on the basis of the legislation. I cannot tell you, because I want to be very clear about the legal texts. Finally, I will also agree with my colleague in the Communist Party. It's just this and it's restraining. I don't want to call it blackmail like he said, but you're actually putting our knife in our throats. As far as all the ministerial amendments are concerned, in fact, apart from 502 which we shall vote on, 80% of their provisions we want to vote for. But we have 20% and you commit us. That's a reality. It is another bill which we cannot vote for because it is uniform. We should take it 'yes' or 'no'. This thing can't be done. That's not a good piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u580	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u581	Mr President, let me say exactly what we are going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u582	It'll be in the vote. You don't have to. It's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u583	Why, Mr President? There's seventeen each. We are in most of them - we are honestly calling it - in favour and we are forced to vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u584	I understand what you're saying. It has also been put in the Conference of Presidents by the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u585	In the legislative amendments, with the exception of Mr Kavvada's 507, in which we shall vote 'the present', we consider them to be positive. Minister, to close...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u586	Three times you said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u587	Let me go now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u588	I hope you keep your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u589	Mr Minister, in your reply you told us about the contract in March on the Deposit and Loan Fund. You have not told us about the European Investment Bank. I don't know if you've missed it or not there is. For the large grants and the blooming finances to the municipalities, I would only refer you to the preliminary draft budget. All 120 million of the taxes and fees I wish they could see - you'd see it in the preliminary draft - but the 280 million that the Ministry of Finance budgets for a reduction in subsidies, because it says that the municipalities will get it from taxes, see exactly where they will find it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u590	Be well. Mrs Agerinopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u591	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, having listened carefully to all the speeches and having received legal corrections to the bill, which are moving in the positive direction, it remains to say once again that we are voting in favour of the bill. The bill introduces regulations that encrypt life experience and meet the principles of good governance and good administration. The arrangements that review the Code of the Hellenic Nationality are now necessary. This is a bill with clear regulations. As far as Part One is concerned, an imprecise and objective way of assessing the knowledge of stakeholders about naturalisation is introduced through examinations. The naturalisation system is improved and the process is accelerated. With regard to Members' remarks on citizenship and citizenship, let us clarify that the bill today does not deal with this issue. These issues have already been resolved by the Hellenic Code of Citizenship. The bill today improves the process of naturalisation, which is becoming more objective and more transparent. In the second part of the bill, we support the systematic, uninterrupted and reformative effort of the government to create a state and a local government that defends the citizen and creates all those conditions to enjoy the quality of his life, to live in modern, intelligent and sustainable cities. It is worth mentioning in an article that is very important, as it allows mountain and island municipalities to provide free feeding and accommodation to medical, paramedical and nursing staff of health centres and public hospitals, the staff of the EKA, the officials of the Greek Police, the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard and the Firehouse, as well as the assistants of primary and secondary education. This also applies to civil servants seconded to these municipalities. The regulation helps to bridge even further the gap in the quality of life that exists between the inhabitants of urban areas and the mountain and island regions. More specific regulations which have been tabled in addition to amendments deserve to be mentioned. I mention, for example, the regulation of specific issues for solid waste management bodies, which gain more flexibility in their formation and composition, the regulation on strengthening amateur sport with the possibility of providing financial grants to sports associations from municipalities and regions to promote their sport, as well as on covering costs for the movement of athletes and sports teams, the regulation on shortening the deadlines for the call for positions of qualified doctors in the ESS, so that doctors may find themselves in their positions near patients earlier. There are also issues of doctors taking part in the specialty title examinations. You will allow me, in addition to my suggestion of the bill itself, to raise two more important matters personally. Firstly, there was a lot of talk about the amendments tabled with regard to the deprivation of civil rights to Golden Dawn leaders following their condemnation. We would remind you that the imposition of the subsequent penalty for the deprivation of civil rights which they happily support would have been possible if the relevant provision had not been abolished with a political choice of the SYRIZA Government itself - ANEL. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate that it could have been done within another framework with a more comprehensive approach to this political and legal issue and not as it has happened today, fragmentary, one-dimensional and extremely limited within the framework of discussion on a bill with another object. However, beyond any legislation which can be adopted in future, society itself is giving it the answer: the greatest value is that of society's forgotten decision no longer to support such forms. Our society, mature and democratic, with its balanced day-to-day development, is the one giving the answer to all the views and proving that such cultures are a definitive past for the Greeks. Secondly, by studying the bill, I was pleased to note that it actually promotes the good vision of local government within the European Union for future cities and directly supports the UN's global sustainability objective under number 11 for the creation of smart, sustainable low-pollutant towns, but high-level living and health. I have no doubt that with the practical support shown daily by the Ministry of the Interior and the entire government to local government, sustainable cities will become a reality throughout Greece. But that's not everywhere. The European Union may want sustainable cities, the UN may want sustainable cities, but there is a European city under the auspices of the UN, which is no longer sustainable, the city of Famagusta in Cyprus. Today, once again, the city of Famagusta suffers from Turkey's decision to extend the license to the Baroness coastal front. This decision once again constitutes a flagrant violation of international law on the part of Turkey. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget. The Prime Minister declared Greece's full support and support for Cyprus. The Group of the European People's Party in the European Parliament unites its voice with us and calls on Turkey to comply with the UN Security Council resolutions and return the barbarians to their legitimate residents. As we want a better future for our cities, for our children and we adopt today's bill for this purpose, so we want a better future for the cities in Cyprus, for the children of Cyprus, for the children of all of us. Sustainable cities are primarily peaceful cities based on the principles of public international law. In these cities we all have the right to live. With our thoughts in Cyprus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u592	Thank you too, Mrs Agerinopoulou. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "Amendment Code of Greek citizenship, a new framework for the selection of administrations in the public sector, the regulation of organisational issues of the General Secretariat of Citizenship and the General Secretariat of the Human Resources Public Sector of the Ministry of the Interior, arrangements for the development prospects and the proper functioning of the local government bodies and other provisions" is closed. We are entering the vote on the principle of articles, amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifty-six articles and seven amendments, the farewell article and the whole. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u593	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u594	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u595	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Amendment of the Code of Greek citizenship, a new framework for selecting administrations in the public sector, regulation of organisational issues of the General Secretariat of Citizenship and the General Secretariat of the Human Resources Government of the Ministry of the Interior, arrangements for the development prospects and the proper functioning of the Local Government agencies and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority of the following bodies:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u596	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u597	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-08-S1-commons.u598	With the agreement of the House at 0.46' the sitting is closed for Friday 9 October 2020 at 9.00 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
