ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In his letter, the Secretary-General for Parliamentary and Legal Affairs informs the House of: "We hereby inform you of the debate on topical and urgent questions in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on Monday, 9 March 2020, that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: It will be responded by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Ioannis Plackotakis. No. No. Mr Vlasi, State Secretary for the Interior, Mr Constantine Vlassi, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and Mr Vlasi, Minister for Foreign Affairs. We begin with the first under number 554/28-2-2020 in the first cycle of the Achaia Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasias (Syria) Readingpoulou to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "What are the measures taken by the Government to comply with the Prespecies Agreement?". Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Vlasi, for his prompt response to the timely question. I want to start, Mr. Undersecretary, saying. So the world can also hear us, this: Can you imagine what would have happened this year if the Ambassadors' agreement had not been signed last year? Can you imagine if we had an open front on our northern borders and with Turkey there how the situation would be today? Because patriotism is to see and predict and try to resolve the critical issues of national interest and not to use patriotide methods for his political opponents, the Prespecies Agreement has closed down an important front and has made a blockage in our region. We've lived a lot last year. Because this year - and I take the opportunity to hear them, it is not for you in particular, but it needs to be heard - we are living such patriotous outbursts against SYRIZA, I would also like this step to be heard of the current and future generations that patriococism has never benefited the country's national interests. When the Government spokesman calls a "Drono Horse" a party whose government has made an impediment to the extension of Turkey's Ottoman vision to the Balkans, we have moved on bad paths that the democratic world of this country has left them in the past and condemned them. I would therefore ask you and all of the government to withdraw to order all those who sow demons and lead the country in times of the 1950s, to the destruction of the rule of law. Parliamentary expressions "the problem is SYRIZA rather than Turkey" or "with the backs of SYRIZA do this or the other" or "the condemnation of newspapers" in Transmigration has never been done. So because the Prespecies Agreement is very critical and we are proud to have resolved an important issue and we do not have information on what has been done and the Interdisciplinary Committee on School Manuals, but also on the expert group on Trademarks, etc., we would like to know if they have made progress. The last thing I had specifically for the expert group, the trademarks were on June 22, 2019 when the committee met in Skopje. I would therefore like, Mr Secretary, if you are kind enough to tell us two things, to tell us what has happened, because if enlargement goes ahead, which we wish, we want stability in the Balkans, we would like to know if these committees are moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Constantine Vlassi, will answer. Here, Mr. Vlassi, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u4	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, thank you for your question. I will not go into the logic and substance of the first part of the question, which does not exist anyway in the contents of your timely question you have put to us. After all, to say theoretically what would happen if this agreement were not there or if there would be a better agreement, I think it is not the present one. As to the functioning of the committees to which you refer in your current question, we note the following. The Joint Interdisciplinary Committee for Experts on Historical, Archaeological and Educational Issues was set up under Article 8(5) of the Ambassadors Agreement and has so far held four meetings. The implementation of the decisions taken at the previous meetings of this committee is of great importance. It will shortly be proposed on the neighbour's side, the date of the fifth meeting of the Joint Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts. I would also stress on this occasion that our main priority is to support our history and our cultural heritage, which are essential components of our national identity and nation from ancient times to present. As regards the International Group of Experts on Trademarks, Trademarks and Names, it has again been set up in accordance with Article 1(3)(l) of the Ambassadors' Agreement. The ILO, therefore, has held two meetings, not one. One was, as you mentioned, on 22 June 2019 in Skopje and the second in Athens on 20 December 2019. The next meeting is scheduled to take place in Skopje in spring. It is recalled that the work of the Ambassadors' Agreement is to assist the business communities of the two countries in implementing commonly accepted solutions that will agree between them in the framework of institutional dialogue. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in contact with the representatives of the Greek business community in order to encourage and facilitate this dialogue. I should also like to stress that the Greek Government is at the same time working - something that the Prime Minister had said in election terms - on the promotion and promotion of the brand of our Macedonia. This also serves the trademark "Makedonia the Great" which enables Macedonian products and Macedonian services to acquire a uniform collective identity at international level. And this trademark - I repeat - concerns Greek products and services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary, for the answer. But I would like you to tell me, because I did not understand, for the Interdisciplinary Committee on School Books, the archaeological sites, etc. Have there been meetings and how many? Also, how has their work progressed, what problems exist and where are the problems? We want to know. For the team of experts, the trademarks and so on, he had met for the first time in May in Thessaloniki, the second time in Skopje in June, and the next meeting was in November. I wanted to know what developments were, that is to say, if it went ahead at all. I know very well that the government - and we did - is trying to consolidate the name 'Macedonian', 'Macedonian' and all that. After all, that is not a problem at European level, but at any rate. The crucial thing, however, is whether the two communities, traders, industrialists, entrepreneurs, etc. they shall find a common territory and by arbitrator the committee, the expert group. We therefore want to know how far all this has gone, what obstacles there are, if there are, if they exist, if they have actually made progress on the basis of the joint scientific committee on school manuals and archaeological sites. One final comment, Mr. Undersecretary. Sometimes - and this is how it should be - the House is a step where Members must be heard. If I predicted my timely question in this way, it is because I consider it critical at such times and times, to hear a few things. I, too, expect the government - and not only myself, not only by SYRIZA, the democratic world - to condemn anything that violates the rule of law, put it into question, and above all, when parties, newspapers are targeted as the internal enemy. There is no more dangerous thing for democracy to hear the other voices that are heard, targeted as an internal enemy, and you will allow me to insist on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. The State Secretary, Mr. Vlasis, has the floor for three minutes for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u8	Mrs Anagnostopoulou, may I point out again that especially as far as your Government is concerned, there are no extremes in our government. And if we do so in particular, we do not accept any extreme attitudes, nor do we accept any officials who either serve our government or the party from which this government comes and who have proved it in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u9	Are you condemning Mr. Pecha? You condemn Mr. Pecha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u10	Please, he didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u11	Specifically, with certain deletions of executives. From that point on, I said I wouldn't judge what that deal was, if it was good or bad, the world also judges it. We, as a government, are obliged to support this agreement, as you have signed it. From there on, I repeat that the Joint Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts has already held four meetings, the next one is planned by us - the fifth meeting - on the side of the neighbouring country...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u12	So, I'm sorry, nothing's happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u13	Four meetings have already been held and will be proposed soon by us for the fifth meeting that will take place. It's already been four. And as far as the international expert group, which you told me that it met on 22 June, was to hold the second meeting in November, I repeat that the meeting was held on 20 December and we are already waiting for the third meeting to take place in Skopje in spring. Now, from there on, it's a constant understanding to which I cannot tell you where it sticks or not. These, anyway, will appear in the course. From that point on, you must know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is closely and thoroughly following the full, consistent and faithful implementation of the agreement, as I told you before and through our Embassy in Skopje, as well as the other authorities of the external service and of course the central agency of the Ministry, and of course, when there are delays, deficiencies or distortions in its implementation, on the other hand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking all the appropriate steps. With a view, therefore, now to more effective coordination of the Ministries and Services in implementing the Agreement, a special Interministerial Committee has been set up, convened to be recognized by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is also set up and operates within the competent political directorate and special unit. All this, assisted by all the previous ones we mentioned. As you know, Greece supports the European perspective of all the countries of the western Balkans, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, according to the European Union's, heresy. In this context, therefore, the neighbouring country's European path is closely linked to the progress of reforms relating to the European Union, to the full, consistent and well-founded implementation of the Presidencies Agreement and to the respect of the fundamental principle of good neighbourly relations. I would also like to stress that our country attaches particular importance to the multi-faceted development of relations with the neighbouring country, because we have said and reiterate that we want good neighbourly relations with all the countries next to Greece and aim to consolidate and develop a mutually beneficial strategic partnership at bilateral level, as is explicitly provided for in the Prespecies Agreement. Strengthening and deepening our bilateral relations and cooperation in all areas of common interest is in the interests of both countries, citizens and of course of the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, just one word, could I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u16	If the Secretary-General wants to. If he wants to, if he doesn't want to, I can't. Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u17	I am pleased, because of what you have said, you recognise the great importance of the Prespecies Agreement. I did not understand about school manuals, after the meetings that had taken place in our government, whether they were then or whether they were going to be done, and I did not see a little bit of how things were going ahead. I am pleased, however, that you fully agree with the importance of the Prespecies Agreement and that you condemn these extreme voices and the Government representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u19	Just point something out. What I said is that as a government, when there is an international agreement, we respect it. I am not in the process, anyway our opinion is specific as to what the agreement was and how it should be. From there on, it is clear that we are pursuing - and we will do so - good neighbourly relations with the neighbouring country and with all the countries around us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. MEP Mr Manossos Voloudakis calls for a short-day absence abroad from today until the 12th of the month, to go to Germany. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u21	The House approved the requested permission. To go, to have a good time, and especially to come back with us. We move on to the first under number 557/28-2-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Much delays in the reopening of the Port Department of Arkitsa Fthiotis". Mr. Sarakiotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The re-establishment of the Arkitsa Fthiotis Port Corps in May 2019, after its abolition in the year 2014, was a decision that satisfied a fair and consistent demand, both from the local society and from the fishermen in the region, but is a decision that also contributes to improving the services provided to the citizens, who use the Arkitsa-Epipsos ferry line. Although it was taken ten months ago, since then the competent services of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy have not been responsible for its implementation, despite the series of serious problems that exist in the port of Arkitsa, but also in the safety of fishing activities. The importance today of the immediate reopening of the port section Arkitsa is evident due to the impending start of the summer season, where there is a vertical increase in the number of passengers and vehicles. On 22 November 2019, in my respective and relevant question, the Ministry replied that you were processing the transfer to a port office of the port department of Atalant and that it would be subject to this part of Arkitsa and that the request has been forwarded to the competent services of your Ministry in order to formulate these views and then to consider on a new basis the need to implement it. Since then, there has been no further information from the Ministry on this matter. As you can see, local society, but also professionals in the region, express their strong concern about what will come of us. That is why I ask you, Minister, what action you intend to take in the next few years in the direction of the immediate reopening of the port section of Arkitsas, but also what the reasons for the improperness of the services concerned so far are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy will answer Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis. Mr. Plakyotakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u24	I would like to inform my fellow Member that we have also received similar requests from the President, as you know very well, from the Arkitsa Community and from the Mayor of Lockes, but also from other Members of the Fthiotida county. And, of course, they are requests which, too, too, are very much on the agenda for the re-establishment of this port department in Arkitsa, and especially in an area that serves fertiles. It is therefore an issue that, as a ministry - beyond the fact that the new political leadership sees it as a whole, that is, we see the question of the structure of port services as a whole - we need to focus on solving two issues in particular. First of all, on the question of housing, since there is indeed a question of housing for this port section and, secondly, on the question of increasing organic positions, which must be addressed. On the second issue after many years we have been pushing forward - and it is a bill, which will be discussed this week in Parliament - the increase in the organic positions of the Port Authority against a thousand five hundred. Nine hundred of them will serve the port services of the eastern Aegean. And, of course, the second issue that should be addressed is housing. Therefore, in order to implement this request, these two issues should be dealt with. We see this issue, as I said, as a whole in the structure of port services. But I want you to understand and understand that at this point in time the national need and the national requirement is to serve the port services of the eastern Aegean. There is the national reason. I think we all understand that. You will therefore give me the opportunity to say that all these requests - very good things - will be considered, since the two above conditions are met and, of course, special emphasis will be placed on lines, particularly ferry lines, such as that of this region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u26	Minister, I fully agree with you that your Ministry must bear the burden of strengthening port services in the Aegean Sea. From there on, I am glad you agree with the previous leadership of the Ministry of Shipping, which took the decision on the reopening of this port section in May 2019. From that point on, as you well know, the port of Arkitsa operates throughout the year five passenger ferry ships and according to the official figures, in 2018 they used this Arkitsa line over 3,000 passengers, but were transported around a hundred thousand vehicles. In addition, next to the port of Arkitsa there is a fishing shelter in which fifty-five amateur and professional boats are berthed. However, this port is also a designated port of landing for medium-scale professional vessels. In addition, in two fishing shelters in the area, the one in Arkitsa and the Livanaites, some 100 fishing vessels operate, while when the port department was abolished in 2014, boats and books of small vessels were kept, which were registered in a thousand and ninety-four vessels. As far as organic positions are concerned, I agree, as I said before, with the thousands of five hundred - and I think that there is no disagreement on either side - to be given to the Aegean islands. From there, the remaining ones, I think, will also be given to the region concerned, whether in Atalant or in Arkica. As far as housing is concerned, as you well know, the Municipality of Lockes over time and with the previous municipal authority and with today it is in favour of the establishment of the port department. For this reason, and in a document sent to you, it has expressed the willingness and willingness to grant office and building infrastructure free of charge where the Arkica community is currently housed. In fact, people of the Port House have already inspected the facilities since the summer and have given a favourable opinion as far as I know. So I think it will have a happy ending immediately, as, as I have pointed out, the summer season begins when the number of passengers will rise vertically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too. Minister, you have three minutes to speak of your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u28	All this is obviously being examined by the General Inspection of the Port Corps, in conjunction with the relevant Services of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. To be precise, the decision is taken when the Presidential Decree comes out. This wasn't on SYRIZA. In every case, however, I would like you to know that, once the two above-mentioned requests from this port service are resolved, we see this as positive. Of course, you must understand that at this time the national need and the national requirement are the eastern Aegean. But all this can be seen over time. We are launching - and this is the very positive one - an increase in organic positions in the Port House, which has been happening for many years. You are also giving me the opportunity publicly to congratulate the representatives of the Port House who have been defending our country's national and sovereign rights for a 24-hour period and who have been boldly and decisively defending our maritime borders in practice over the last few days. And this is an important precedent for the Port House and they really deserve public congratulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. The second question under number 558/3-2020 is the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject of "The State of Professional Lyceums (EPAAL), is not discussed after consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-09-S1-commons.u30	With the consent of the House at 18.33' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 10 March 2020 and 10.00' on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
