ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Digital Governance Code (Integration into Greek law of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 and Directive 2019/1024) - Electronic Communications Code (Integration into Greek law of Directive (EU) 2018/172) and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 17 September 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and on amendments. It is only for the procedure, and only for the one sitting, that there is obviously the assent of the House. Now I know that he wants to object to the Qualified Opposition on the substance, not the one-session procedure. Which of the two colleagues will take the floor? Mr. Raguss? Mr Ragosisi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We have made it clear from the first meetings of the committee that not only in our opinion, but in accordance with Article 76 of the Constitution, Articles 65 and 67 of Law 4622/2019, and Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure, have in fact been in place since the start of the meetings of the Standing Committee. The word 'code' has been included in the title of this bill while we are well aware that the code is not. Indeed, on this point, we have sent together with our colleagues Mr Katsis and Mr Garasa a letter to the President of the Parliament. We called for the Scientific Council, which was held - and we received it last night - and in line with the position of the Scientific Agency - to be precise - of the House, in fact, this draft law is not a code. Look, one would say it's a detail, but we think it's not a detail. Why? Why in today's time when humanity and Greek society enjoy the goods of the Internet and social media, social media, the main enemy who has embedded in the rule of law within social media, who is on the Internet? It's the make news, it's the hoaxes, it's the conscious attempt to mislead the reason everyone has in mind. So what is happening here today does not have the same weight as it would be if it were a draft agricultural development bill, that is, this official production by the government itself who wants to co-responsible the House for a production of a make news, a mistake of citizens, but it is very important and very important, because it is the draft digital governance bill. We therefore believe that this attempt to mislead the citizens must be stopped here today, that the constitutional and legislative order must be restored, and that the word 'code' must absolutely be removed from the title of the bill, in accordance with the opinion of the Scientific Agency. Secondly, I would like to point out, Mr President, that it is also a matter of seriousness, not of procedural importance, but of substance, that the Scientific Office of the Parliament has found that we are also discussing the legalisation of the personal number of citizens and that the opinion of the Privacy Authority has not yet been obtained. This is a very serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u3	Before I give the floor to the Minister - and I am in a good mood, Mr Ragosi, today because my neighborhood's historic volleyball team in Pangrati has also been re-established, and I want to remind you of two things. First, in 2016 without a code but under the name ‘code’, the Banking Law was passed on to the Government of SYRIZA. It's exactly the same case. Secondly, from what I have seen in the Minutes, you are right. There the draft law was discussed with the normal procedure at four meetings, amendments and changes were made. Thirdly, I think there is the goodwill and mood of the Minister, to whom I shall immediately give the floor to make the legislative - perhaps - improvement, so the issue is resolved and we shall proceed smoothly. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, at the outset we have told the committees that this is not a code in the constitutional sense. Our aim was to bring in and gather in a text provisions, the overwhelming majority of which are new, but also in others there was also a character of recognition of work that has been ahead of us and, if you like, to bring some things into the future, because, in fact, laws are dynamic texts. They're not carved into a kingdom. We must constantly adapt them to the present and future. So, despite the fact that we do not think there is a problem - as the President said in the case of 16 - despite the fact that the Scientific Committee of Parliament says that it is not a code in the constitutional sense, in a spirit of goodwill and given that the committees have already shown agreement in most articles, I submit a legal improvement to the name of the bill, by removing the word 'code'. It shall be ‘Digital Governance, Electronic Communications and Other Provisions’. [[At this point, the Minister of State and Digital Governance, Mr Kyriakos Pierracakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 7-12
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. The in- or out-of-subsequent misunderstandings have been resolved. We are starting our process with the majority rapporteur, Mr Ioannis Mela of the New Democracy. I would ask that the registration system be opened, which will be closed when Mr Marios Katsis, rapporteur of SYRIZA, comes down from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have just seen, in democracy there are no deadlocks, there is always a solution and the solution always lies when there is good will. So a flagship bill is coming to discuss today. It is the largest one that has been tabled by this government and is currently called upon by the National Representation to approve it. The "Digital Governance Code" as originally was, "Digital Governance and Electronic Communications", is not one of those bills that have special political features and are certainly not offered for political confrontation. The information technology train in Greece, anyway, has been lost for many years and we have lost it for a very specific reason, because no one has ever exploited the tools available to computers and the possibilities they can offer to the public administration. So we are coming today, with a delay of several years, as the bodies mentioned in the drafting of the bill in committees, to define the framework with which our country will take the big step and will now have a digital character. Initially, with the digital governance bill, we incorporate several new provisions, as the Minister said before, we modernise old provisions concerning digital governance and, at the same time, integrate European directives, all in a piece of legislation. In other words, we are creating a manual on which digital society will be built. We start our design by establishing the book of the state's digital transformation, a tool that will include all the projects that need to be implemented for the digital transformation of the state. It will have a five-year horizon and will reflect the country's overall digital strategy. These projects will not only be visionary about what we want to do, but will be concrete projects and concrete actions, projects and actions that have been specifically identified through consultation with bodies and ministries and that are more than three hundred projects which can be financed, and which will be financed in large part by the Recovery Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this bill is in no way to digitise bureaucracy. Our aim is to reduce bureaucracy and increase the efficiency of the state. Ureas we have seen many times in the tax office, tails to the insurance funds, tails to the municipalities, queues to be set up and re-established to collect documents and documents and to make posters or clerks, from one public service to another, to do their job. Is that what we're pursuing? No way. With digital governance, as with the legislative improvement, this Greek reality ends in the black. Citizens will now be able to enjoy self-evident. Because it is self-evident that public bodies speak, as we say in the language of information, among themselves. The state is a single state, and that is why it must also work. This will happen with the Interoperability Register and the obligation of public bodies to communicate electronically with each other. In fact, from 1-1-21 the use of fax in the public sector is being stopped as a symbolic act. At the same time, we are overcoming the phenomenon of one service asking for different documents from another agency for the same procedure. How do we get through this? With the process register citizens will know exactly the procedure and supporting documents required and have the choice of transaction with the public, whether electronically or in a physical presence. In the present bill, therefore, the Personal Number is also established. Finally to use the VDU elsewhere, AMKA, elsewhere the Register of Insurance IKA or other numbers. All in one, a number will follow us in all our transactions with the public and identify us. Already for six months, the Single Digital Gate has been operating the gov.gr. Today, sixteen services are provided through it by various public bodies. The half-day one needed, for example, to make a simple authorisation, through gov.gr can be done in very few minutes. This bill also provides for the upgrading of the Single Digital Gate and the objective is, in the immediate future, to carry out all of citizens' transactions with the public. At the same time, there is also provision for the creation of digital locks for public sector bodies and for trading citizens and businesses. The digital lockers will keep all the documents issued by the box owners. Another substantial reform of the bill, particularly concerning the Greek region, our remote Greek villages, is the addition of five hundred and twenty areas to the outside television coverage areas, so-called 'white areas'. The television signal will reach Crete, Zachariana Kissamos, Psara, Panormitis, Halki, Pserimos, Leipzig, Kalloni Trizinia. The State will cover the costs of assistance and equipment for the installation of satellite television. The inhabitants of these regions, with a simple request, either electronically via gov.gr or through JEPs, will be able to join the programme. We also incorporate in national law the European Directive 2016/2102 digital accessibility and European Directive 2019/1024 on open data. Open data is wealth for each country. With digital governance we ensure that they are properly exploited to be an economic growth factor and a tool to improve the infrastructure, services and applications that we all use. We are also integrating and updating the provisions on 'DENMARK' and digital transparency. It is planned, between the provisions of the bill and the principle of Cloud First Policy. All public data will be stored in the "Nofos", the well known to all of us Cloud, thus gaining at costs, speed, accessibility and data security of citizens and businesses. One of the most important innovations in this bill is the entrance of Greece to the fifth generation networks. The development of these networks will be of great benefit to the country. That is why the Government will immediately proceed to a tender for the provision of a spectrum of radio frequencies to the telecommunications service providers. The provisions of the bill promote innovation, research, the development of services and products in 5G networks by companies, universities, research institutions and public bodies. A decisive role in the development of the 5G in our country will play the Phaestos Fund. This is an innovation, a concept of the Ministry of Digital Governance. The Fascist Fund is a mutual fund, with 25% of the revenues resulting from the tender for the concession of the spectrum of frequencies. The Faith Fund will aim only at investing in companies active in research, the development of services and products operating in fifth generation infrastructure. So the people of the Ministry and the Minister personally with the institutions have convinced them that this model will produce extra money, through the revenues that will be generated for the State and instead of all this revenue for the debt, as our country is required under a 2011 Act, the Ministry of Digital Governance has achieved the implementation of an innovative model in the development of 5G in Greece. The second part of the bill concerns electronic communications and the incorporation of Directive 1972/2018 into our country's legal framework. The code for electronic communications updates the Greek regulatory framework for the operation of electronic communications in our country. These provisions promote investment in very high capacity networks. Competition and the development of the electronic communications market is stimulated. Consumers shall be protected so that citizens and businesses enjoy high quality availability and increased choice of innovative digital services at competitive prices. There are issues on the universal service. Thus every citizen of independent income will have adequate access to low-cost network services. Procedures for the development of electronic communications networks shall be simplified. To understand what we mean by that, for example, to connect a house with optical fibre today may take three and a half months, four or more. This process is simplified and the connection will be made directly, as is currently the case with the connection to natural gas. Appropriations for 112 are also included for the operation of the European open telephone line for missing children, the well-known 116000 and for accessibility to the Internet for disabled people. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister himself in the government's programming statements in 2019 had mentioned the need for the state's digital transformation. He had said features, in fact, that in 2020 the Greek state will finally begin to acquire a real digital presence. This commitment is being made and already gov.gr works and the numbers prove that citizens use and trust it. With digital governance, the State's digital presence will become the strong link between citizens and state, because digital governance is governed by principles. The principle of legality, the principle of transparency, the principle of equality, in particular accessibility, the principle of good administration and efficiency, the principle of integrity and security. With these principles, then, we want to build digital Greece. With these principles we want to build confidence with the citizens. The state, through the digital organisation, will not give our people priority over yours, to the few against the many. It will be as accessible to all citizens. It is clear, therefore, that our central political choice is to acquire the state of digital character. It is a process that began from the first day New Democracy took over the country's rule and despite the difficult circumstances and unforeseen events, such as the coronary pandemic, it continues with constant steps to take place. The pandemic, in fact, created more needs and became the stimulus to upgrade the state's digital function. The role of the Ministry of Digital Governance was and remains decisive. With the operation of 13033 during Lockdown last March, with the Greek Government's information website for COVID -19, with the acceleration of gov.gr and the creation of travel.gov.gr and the PLF for foreign tourists was a pioneering international function for our country. These were some of the initiatives taken by the Ministry of Digital Governance, and indeed in a very short time. Telework has also entered our lives, which since yesterday is compulsory to 40% of the workers in Attica both for the public and for the private sector as a measure of protection against the spread of the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, the digital governance bill is the necessary complement to the state of staff, as we have said in committees. With Law 4622/2019 for the ultimate state and the law on digital governance that we are bringing today, the government's governance and functioning are shielded. With the provisions of this bill, therefore, we seek to limit the line in public services, reduce bureaucracy, speed up the process of handling civil affairs, save time and money for the public, but also for individuals, build confidence between the administration and the administration and upgrade public services. We are doing, that is, simpler and easier to keep citizens' daily lives in their dealings with the public. It is a self-evident provision to the Greek society. We have the tools that new technologies and the Internet are and we have the will to do it. In this self-evident sense, therefore, the need for Greek society cannot disagree. We all agree on the substance of the bill and recognise the need to create a friendly modern and not a customer-friendly way of dealing between a state and a citizen. We can disagree on a lot of things, we have a different ideology, we disagree on major issues of economy, education, immigration, but we cannot agree to the self-evident, simple and reasonable demands of society. Finally, I would like to say this. The 21st century requires, first of all, a digital state fast, efficient and productive for the citizens. So who of us today at the end of the day will not vote for the bill and will deny this right from today's and next generations? I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the Ministry of Digital Governance bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u7	SYRIZA's general rapporteur, Mr Marios Katsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to begin with a comment from the legislative improvement that the government and the Minister have finally submitted on the SYRIZA request, and I would like to say that we are happy because you have managed to return to constitutional and parliamentary order. We told you in good morning when the meeting started and the drafting of the bill on the committees was not codification. What he is doing is trying to draw old legislation, integrated legislation, to put it under a single legislation, so that in future all the work of earlier legislation is politically blocked, and in no case is a classic codification. And that was understood by my colleague, and now by closing he invited us to vote in favour of it. It's fun because you've come to a very difficult position. And suggestively...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u9	I didn't come in any difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u10	I quote, at first you were talking about code, then you went to a manual, then I don't know how many other designations you have found in order to justify your initial attitude. And Ms. Papadimitriou very hardenedly said neither much nor much that thankfully this Pierracakis code came to bring us down from the trees here in Greece that we have nothing digitally and put us in the new digital age. Fortunately, however, because Parliament did not have to allow such a corporation to be opened, so that our fellow Members would come here and celebrate a replay goal again, that we vote again on integrated legislation that has been implemented and embraced by Greek society and, in essence, reduce it, if we vote again on the same articles, on Parliament's credibility, but also on our own honour. So I am pleased that it started in this way and is a political victory for parliamentarianism, but also for SYRIZA, who had warned in time about this development. The Scientific Committee of the Parliament has already shown that. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by making a mention of our fellow citizens in the regions affected by the recent bad weather in Janus. We give them our full support, our sincere condolences to the relevant victims, who have unfortunately also been here this time. The phenomena of the climate crisis are already here, we are intact and are certain that there are responsibilities. But at the present time it is important to make full compensation for the incalculable disasters, both in Karditsa and in Magnesia, and wherever these disasters have occurred. And even this blow, this blow comes to be added to the pandemic blows. The ultimate state of excellence drowned in the muds of 'Janu', which we waited for days. "Janus" politician "Janus" is the hidden Prime Minister until yesterday, Mr. Mitsotakis, who, after he blunted in Mandra and Matti, to win the elections, until yesterday felt his hands. In Halkidiki, Evia, Mycenes, Corinth, Ionian Islands, Crete, Carditsa, Almyros was revealed in the most painful way. He discovered the climate crisis, he puts responsibility at the bad moment, through Mr. Synolakis, he peripulates the self-fearing Mr. Chardalia to criticise the citizens, with the well-known style and, of course, with the undignified support of SMEs. They're all renounced together all responsibility. The reality is, however, very hard. And if you question her, as you started today going to the affected areas, you will also speak to the world and see that she is suffering, that it is a huge disaster. The Government of New Democracy must apologise to this world, not to SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, but to the citizens who have deceived them grossly and the most practical apologies are to close these wounds quickly. Let's go to the bill now. We have been placed on all its political and technical issues at all previous meetings in constructive criticism. We have asked clarifications, we have criticised, we have tabled alternative proposals to the points we disagreed on, although the remaining parties to the Minority Response rushed to state from the first meeting of the Committee - other than the JRC, of course, which has a consistent position on the European directives - the vote. I shall therefore try to summarize the core of the bill by speeding up the main points that are worthy of greater attention to us. The bill therefore consists of four major parts: first, the relegation with some changes in earlier laws, the incorporation of European directives, thirdly, the institutional preparation of the administration in order to implement the electronic document-sharing system and fourthly, the establishment of a public limited company "COMMENDATIONS 5G S.A.", a subsidiary of the SSPS, the supranationality, which will invest in the logic of mutual funds, a part of the auction revenue of the National Telecommunications Commission and Post, the SST, from the use of the frequency range for the 5G. However, we also have some articles which are purely government initiatives, most of which are in a positive direction, such as those relating to the digitisation of the state, the relationship between the state and the citizen, but we are totally opposed and others have reservations. You've changed the name of the bill, so I have to change my speech. Let me go to the point of criticism. Firstly, the digital book. We have heard criticism from the BSE committees - the criticism we have been making for months now - with which you have privileged relations with BSE. What did he say to you not much? That you have delayed making new digital works, but also the digital book, which will describe and specificize the new digital works, as you have said, you have announced it three times and you have legislated it three other times. You said that because of COVID we are taking the money from the Recovery Fund, so we must delay taking it another two months, so that we can update the digital projects as well. You know, this argument is not serious, it's a convenient escape, and here's where the coronary will be. You could well have published it and even updated it after a while and enriched it every two months when you were going to have new works. Why would the Bible describe specific works? Who's imposing this? What do we get? I think it's just excuses. We with the General Secretariat of Digital Policy had a small structure. He designed projects based on the national digital strategy, described priority axes and approved projects in terms of feasibility, projects that you too recognise and continue with, such as the electronic document handling system and which you have already legislated on in this bill. And we welcome that. Mr Christopoulos, Secretary-General for Trading and Simplifying Procedures, who claims to be also one of the inspirations of Mr Mitsotakis' state of service, to date what he has done, what have we seen in the simplification of procedures? Has he done any work, has he approved anything? The only idea is to reinvent bureaucracy. What do we see here? All reorganisations within the Ministry, changes in structures, recommendations of committees, committees of committees, committees for committees, and so on, and every bill you bring and you vote for, but you also correct your already adopted provisions. That's a digital fiasco, literally! This is about the Ministry's establishment plan. The Information Society, the agency that had to make digital works, and what does Mr. Patentides do a year? Only direct assignments, 19,900 splits, nothing has come out. You're not going to make digital works like this, you're not going to make the digital jump that we want, you're going to sifting old works in your ministry and you're looking for exactly how we go and we're not going to miss the train in the new era. Because the institutional framework that you are bringing, the provisions on the digital box and the Personal Number, with the reservations we have and I shall mention them, for the gov.gr, and we have supported them, with another technique, we have announced him with the only Personal Number rather than such methods that may be hit by us in the future - it says so - but in implementation we are suffering. You don't apply. And, you know, time isn't abundant. I now come to a second major issue, in addition to the digital book, which is 'DENMARK'. In our objections to the amendment of the article on "DENMARKING" we heard clearly and categorically to the committees by the Minister that the creation of the Personal Number, this unique staff number, will not affect the search for the VAT in "DENMARKING" for the natural and legal persons with the pretext of personal data. This is a political commitment, Minister, to take it from the standpoint in the committees and we expect to see it. You should know that we will be watching you very closely, because you cannot hide behind the Personal Character Privacy Authority and abolish the search with the VAT, take such a recommendation possibly, hide behind it and not know the rest where the Greek people's money is going, because the Authority has allegedly told you, which is conquering you in the report of the Scientific Service. It appears that the Authority has no cooperation with the Ministry and you have not even received its opinion in a number of legislations. And it's not only your Ministry, it's badly lying, and the Ministry of Education has done the same. So interconnecting with the VAT is a choice that you take. However, we have pointed it out to you that in case you hide behind the protection of personal data to change the core, the context, the substance, the soul of the “HUMAN”, there is no way we can leave you. We will know where the Greek taxpayers' money is going. We will know where government officials are going, where the couches go, how much they cost, how much they spoil, where they eat, where they sleep, everything. This is not personal data, know this and you will find us against future modification. With regard to digital governance and the abolition of fax and paper, digital signatures to civil servants, in fact - we have said so many times - it is the institutional preparation that you are doing through the bill to implement the CSCE, namely the electronic document handling system, an emblematic work by the SYRIZA Government and the Ministries of Administrative Reconstruction in Olga Gerovasili and Digital Policy in Nikos Papa, which will save EUR 400 million annually, which will hit red tape and that - and rightly so - you are supporting digital governance. We have heard you mention it to the committees, and obviously we cannot support it in any way and give you the push with the communication superpower that you have as a government to fight it. No way! It is the flagship work on which you are pressing - and rightly so, I say it again - to advance digital governance. I would also like to mention something that has not been very concerned with the committees, because it was a huge bill, apart from the recurring articles, but there were others that were basically like space. You spoke about space at the last meeting, Minister. The answers you gave seemed a little confused. You do not have space policy a year now. You haven't done anything at all. It was the government of SYRIZA that formulated space policy with the establishment of the Greek Space Organization. He concluded international agreements with NASA, made the system for microprocessors and so on. You so far have done nothing at all. And what did you do as an opposition then? You've been mocking it. Mr Dendias, then, a parliamentary representative, I remember, now Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that as soon as we come, we will abolish it. So what did you do on the first day of the bill? You renamed him, made him a Greek Space Center. What you're doing with these changes, Minister, is not going to work on what you're planning. I have also seen you with a number of doubts in this regard. We defended Article 119 where an automatic declaration of support is given to all the proposals put forward for optional - I stress - the ESA programmes, the European Space Agency, and we told you that this is a mistake and must first enter a filter from the Greek authorities in order to ensure the funding proposals, to serve the country's research and development needs on the basis of a national space strategy. What did you answer? You're always responding with intelligence. You said: "Let all flowers bloom." But, Minister, all the proposals can be financed, in any case, in the mandatory competitive programmes. You leave them, anyway, we won't even ask if the flowers will bloom. We are talking, however, about voluntary programmes. In order for the majority Members to understand what the Minister says, it is the optional programmes that Greece prefers with its participation and puts extra money into the European Space Agency, beyond what we are obliged to do as a country, as a member, and that extra money we say should be directed towards actions that will benefit the country. We cannot tell the European Space Agency that we do not have an opinion, we do not care, we say 'yes', and we leave a European agency on the basis of its own priorities and internal balances to decide which proposal will be financed with Greek money. We have to get a potion in, but before that you have to decide who draws up the country's strategy so that this potion can be put in. I don't want to expand. You said something about the defense. What's the point of the defence ministry's representation? You said you should have the Department of Defense. We do not disagree with this, but once you see the aims of the European Space Agency, it speaks of a time of peace. It speaks of peace in a time of peace. We have not said that it is not served, but do not smuggle, do not mislead Parliament. I think it is a balance between four institutions. There may be problems with who runs the test in space within your Ministry. That's not our problem. It's no problem for the House to legislate. I think you should make a decision. We are going to the supreme, the most critical one - in my opinion - and I am closing with this, but I need some time, Mr President, because it is great and essential. You are founding the company "COMMUNICATIONS 5G S.A." and the Faistos Fund, which is a subsidiary of the fund, in order to participate with funds in 5G applications. We are talking here about a problematic provision from which the clear ideological differences emerged, the two different political plans between our own party, the progressive party and the conservative party, both in the field of the economy and in the country's development strategy. We have said, with the idea of leverage for high-tech and lever-innovation investments the state is a strategy that we are in agreement. In any case, we legislated it, first of all, with Equifund, which in the part of research and technology and innovation produced excellent results. We can't go against that logic, bad lies. The criticisms we have made are basically two: firstly, the independence of the investment committee does not exist, as is the double control of which investments will be directed towards public money. The Board of Directors. This company is composed of seven members, of which four are members of the investment committee which is proposed and the investment criteria, but who will also take the decision on the flow of funds, as it will be the body that will also take the decision, because it will have the majority of the members of the Board of Directors. In other words, those who had to be opinionary and suggestion, have the majority and the administration, and without criteria, or the criteria set by themselves, are directing state money. We at Equifund had the technical assistance of the European Investment Bank and the independence of the fund managers, introduced to the Board. But that one, the board. it took the decision in the second stage of control and, of course, with predetermined and measurable criteria. You here give a white cheque to four people who will appoint the superstition to do whatever they want to do with public money. Your objections, Minister, that private investors should not have a majority in the Board. - because I have heard it, and I reply on the substance of your documentation to the committees, on all issues - they are unhealthy. It's a political disgrace that you're doing, because it doesn't lead anywhere in the law that individuals get a share. Second point of criticism, we disagree with the need to set up a new subsidiary of the Supreme Court that will manage the resources of the public, i.e. revenue from the frequencies that are the property of the Greek people. Look, we are out of memory, with a regulated debt by 2032, a reserve of EUR 37 billion, a hard pillow for debt service for the next years of EUR 16 billion. And all this thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people, but also to the policy pursued by the SYRIZA government and succeeded where all bankruptcy governments failed. Also, when do you do that? In the midst of a pandemic, which has removed all the budgetary restrictions on debt and surpluses, while the debate in all international fora has opened how the neoliberal dogma about a zero state and the invisible - supposedly - of the hand of the market which will regulate everything is strongly questioned. And in such an unprecedented crisis, strong, active intervention by the state is required. This also appeared to be one of the eleven points announced by our President, Alexis Tsipras at the IGC and the strategy to be followed by the country with an active role of the state in the banking system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Katsi, you can see the clock across the street a little bit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u12	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u13	Yeah, we said a little, but I've already given you four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u14	Yeah, you're right. I'm gonna need a five-minute without a second. I'll go to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u15	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much. It appeared from the eleven points that we presented in the report with an active role of the state in the banking system and in the development Bank's use of liquidity, exploitation and investment mobilisation. What I mean to say is that we need to get away from the bankruptcy procedures that, as a country, were accompanied by the memos. There are now all the conditions. We can enjoy listening to the Movement of Change, the New Democracy and other parties defending the superstition now, even though they voted for the third programme of the ESM and had it as a crown of anti-SYRIZA rhetoric, but the excess no longer needs any more public property. We have made a concrete proposal to you in committee and I am tabling it here in plenary. Take advantage of the Development Bank as the manager of the Faith Fund for investment. It is a proposal that is perfectly realistic and effective. So instead of building a subsidiary in the superstition, create a new department in the Development Bank, subsidise it with funds from the auction from the frequencies so that it is a dedicated investment tool for high technology and applications 5G - no problem - with transparency, with a clear strategy, with a clear benefit to the country's development strategy. The HIAD Act and the commitments of the country that you invoked from the mid-term of 2011 have no reason to exist or whatever you have negotiating options. The HICP law does not mention anywhere that the frequency revenues should go to the debt, except in the Venizelos' accompanying joint ministerial decision you filed. The joint ministerial decision may well change with a new joint ministerial decision, unless you do not wish, Minister, to be sad at Mr Venizelos. We also proved within a memorandum that we have auctioned part of the spectrum and frequencies for pan-Hellenic channels, with Law No.4339, the Pappas Act, which we are learning that Mr. Petsas now wants to spend on the obligation for workers. This money, the EUR 210 million - of course, this year you suspended the instalment - did not go to the debt, but to the budget. There is, therefore, a Minister of State, a part of the spectrum and a possibility of being in addition to the needs of the debt, let alone today that the restrictions have been lifted. The 1,8 MHz auction on SYRIZA, the argument remains: Then we were in the memoranda, now we are not. You have degrees of freedom. You don't do something innovative, because I hear you keep saying that we are doing an innovative 5G with this implementation. Just what you do, Minister, give neoliberal credibility credentials to circles inside and outside the country that want to have a decisive role in infrastructure and public property. We strongly criticised the fact that Phaistos' investment will go to telecommunications providers for the development of infrastructure 5G, if they will return, i.e. by deducting the money they will give for the auction. We refused, saying we would build a 5G company ecosystem that would develop applications. In other words, you are telling us that the guaranteed customers will be created in the network of 5G of the three mobile companies, as 5G has no commercial value for the general public, except for industrial and corporate applications. So you are consciously choosing to favour large oligopolistic companies with huge profits instead of turning these funds into the development of small and medium-sized innovative companies. This, of course, also shows another neoliberal deadlock for the functioning of competition in the telecommunications sector, namely how bad it is that the country does not have a public national telecommunications provider and was also shown by the issue of the mobile data charges that we have the highest charges, but let me not go further. We have therefore tabled a specific proposal to you on the reverse of your own and with Articles 93 and 94 we have a completely different approach. I don't know if you're in the mood to retreat and that's what we'll wait until the end of the meeting. If it stays the way it is, we are voting against these two articles. Ladies and gentlemen, the digital transformation and the country's entry into the fourth industrial revolution is a national issue and obviously requires a national plan. He demands consent to avoid sewing out. He keeps demanding the state. Clearly, we have ideological differences, particularly in development issues, such as who will fruit the benefits of development, as I said before, and other issues. We may agree on the aims and objectives, but the means are different, because it may not make sense for what government is sharing better digital signatures, but the responsibility is burdening all of us, but above all for the government that we will not tolerate - starting with this bill that has retreated and changed title - to make other pussies or surprises out of context and to make micro-policy. We will vote in favour in principle and vote against articles such as 93 and 94 for the superstition. In no case do we give you a white check on other articles, where we will vote 'at present' and see them in the vote on an article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u17	To close the speaker record system. I want to inform you that forty colleagues have been registered. After I have agreed to speak on his dentistry, although he wants another rapporteur, I am obliged to accept it, except for Mr Mellah who kept time and thus has his dentistry. Ilhan Ahmet, a special speaker from the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we are undoubtedly living in the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, a time when in order to manage and facilitate our lives, we must move between digital and natural worlds by using technologies, which by yesterday many of them were made out of scientific fiction scenarios. Artificial intelligence, robotics, virtual reality, great data, and of course, the Internet intervene more dramatically in the way we understand reality, in the way we live and work. Of course, they create a new field of challenges for political leadership. Because, in the new landscape on the one hand, the global division of labour and capital accumulation is changing, on the other hand, developments in critical areas such as technology, photonics, biotechnology, new revolutionary approaches, various scientific fields. In this reality your governments and government are already in front of a difficult bet. They must work intensively to prevent the widening of social inequalities, because we all know that technological developments do not lead to a Priori in heaven. Specific political options are needed, so that no one is left behind, no one is excluded from the new era that is already here. In other words, technology requires specific policies to become a lever for growth and to have a positive mark on society's prosperity. Unfortunately, our country still seems to be away from all these developments, but also from changes that should have taken place for years. This is precisely what the digital economy and society index, which ranks us in the twenty-seventh position, between twenty-six Member States of the European Union, confirms. I want to submit this chart to the minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, the adjustment of the Greek state to the new digital reality that is constantly being postponed or stumbled despite election announcements is a typical example. Ladies and gentlemen, we can see that the bill under discussion, as well as the previous ones from the Ministry of Digital Governance, continues to gather responsibilities and powers to the face of the Minister of Digital Governance. That's problematic. There's a misunderstanding here. Digital governance means diffusion of information, access, transparency and not over-concentration of competences in a Ministry, it means specific policies from each Ministry, adapted to the digital age. We have to be clear about this. That is to say, each ministry carries out one of its own policies, because today clearly has the technology, but that does not mean that we are collecting it all to the Ministry of Digital Governance. With regard to digital governance, PASOK has been linked to Opengov, “DINAGE”, L.3882/2010, L.3979/2011, e-mail address and much more. In other words, it has been linked to flagship and innovative laws and reforms in the field of the state's digital transformation. We're really glad you recognize their value. But because we know what real reform means, in this field, today as a Change Movement, despite the fact that we are positive about the draft law under discussion, we cannot in any way celebrate, because Article 99 of the present law abolishes the fax to the Greek State. This is not a revolution, it is not an innovation to abolish the fax in 2020, Mr Colleague. It's a communal firework. Moreover, the parallel use of the fax does not prevent any citizen from sending his document to the public services. It is just, then, that the bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy brings absolutely self-evident and, indeed, with a delay despite the election promises to the contrary. The delay, however, is now costing the country dear, which is a delay from the study of the bill, will probably continue in the future, because we have a bill of two hundred and thirty-two articles, many of which are still pending. This is because secondary legislation is required by ministerial decisions, CSRs and presidential decrees to be adopted in the future. Only in Article 107 are seventy ministerial decisions, while in total in the Code of Electronic Governance we counted over a hundred and twenty ministerial decisions. You are well aware that such a large number of ministerial decisions and the draft law under discussion is in danger of staying on paper. Digital governance in the minds of most Greek citizens is linked to the fight against bureaucracy, the better provision of services on the part of the state, the shortening of procedures, and, of course, all of this with transparency. We must therefore, early on, point out that digital governance does not mean switching to digital bureaucracy. If the documents to be produced by the citizen are not reduced, but they simply have to be produced electronically, we have no fundamental change or, of course, we have no change in the services provided to citizens, when a request is sent and received electronically from the relevant state service, but we have never had a reply and a solution to the problem for the citizen. And this last one we saw against coron throughout the quarantine period, when you advertised in the channels the passage to digital governance, because obviously digital governance is not exhausted in intact prescribing and e-authorisation. Also, because I am a member of a prefecture with many mountainous and disadvantaged regions and because Eastern Macedonia and Thrace as an example has the first with the percentage of the population at risk of poverty being at 24 3%, I would like to point out that for any design at the level of digital governance, the accessibility of all citizens to the new services must also be ensured. What does that mean? In order to ensure this accessibility, actions are needed in two directions. The first concerns the specificities of each local society. Local selfgovernment, particularly in mountain and semi-urban areas, has other requirements and problems for the implementation of the provisions of the bill and should therefore be properly prepared for it. In addition, in order to ensure accessibility for all citizens, you must also see prices, the cost of data on mobile phones. Greece, Minister, at European level, is one of the most expensive countries in the mobile data market and it is certain that it will greatly affect the way in which citizens make use of the new digital services. We cannot, on the one hand, talk about the state's digital transformation and, on the other, about not facilitating citizens' access to the new services. All municipalities in the country, but also all public services, must be offered free access to the Internet to citizens. It is very important that no one is excluded, that we do not create citizens who are not finally able to have access to the state. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only dwell on a few points which we consider to be problematic in the bill. I will begin with the first part of this draft law, namely Chapter II and Article 5, in which the 'Digital Governance Paper' is presented. A specific procedure is being set up here, both within the same body and between the various bodies, using a central system of electronic document handling. And that is compulsory. But this Bible should already have been tabled since last December and we have not seen it yet. Here, then, we regulate the operation of something we do not know. It is clear that there is a big gap and you know that void seems bigger because you are formulating in every way that this Bible was already ready and not ready. Now, with Articles 7, 8 and 9, the Minister for Digital Policy is really being overtaken by the Minister. Almost all ESDP projects will need the approval of the Ministry of Digital Governance. In addition, the Minister for Digital Governance is invited to coordinate the general and special secretaries of the other Ministries. Does that make sense to you? And most importantly, does that look functional to you? I said it before, in the new digital age, everything is done through intelligent technologies, but that does not mean we will abolish all the ministries. It is the ministries who have to formulate specific policies within the new age. However, by abolishing all these Ministries and by collecting responsibilities you are actually abolishing policy. With regard to Articles 34 and 35 of the draft law which introduce arrangements for the introduction of compulsory electronic communications between public sector bodies and natural and legal persons or legal entities. While the obligation to create and move a website for each public body listed on the websites of public bodies is also laid down. Minister, the citizen is obliged to communicate electronically with the public, but I do not see in the bill that the public is required to respond within a specific timeframe to the citizen. Why don't you extend L.2690/1999 on the Code of Administrative Procedure, so that the citizen receives an answer to his request and within a specific timeframe and if he doesn't get it, there are some disciplinary penalties for the public that he doesn't answer. With regard to Article 76, that is to say, 'GENERAL', what is really covered by the exception from 'GENERAL' referred to in Article 76(4), Minister? Will they be posted without delay to ‘TRAINING’ and the acts posted in the central electronic register of public procurement contracts? With regard to Article 77, you state that the acts already in the ‘DENMARK’ should also be posted on the pages of the relevant bodies. But why? In the awareness of the citizens, "DENMARK" has been established as a site for the search for the actions of the administration. Proceed to upgrade "HUMANY" with modern data search and categorisation machines. Make the "GENERAL" more user-friendly, more functional. It cannot continue to function with the same search that started in 2010 on PASOK. Article 78 states that acts posted in ‘DICAH’ and to be published in CVT shall also apply from their publication in the CVT. This, however, reverses the initial arrest of the ‘PRODUCT’ according to which no act applies unless it is made public in the ‘PRODUCT’. The principle must be restored that something must have been published in the 'DENMARK' in order to be effective. Nothing should apply if it has not been posted to “TRAINING”. Minister, the 'GENERAL' must remain 'TRAINING'. I'm coming to Article 90 for the Procedural Register. How much do we have today and how much services do they provide? Is there any place in which these services are concentrated? Will you make another one? Will you unify what's already there? Or are we finally going to fund the contractors to do a job part of which has already been paid by the Greek State? There's a huge salt and mix-up here. We also see that in more articles there is a culture of punishing officials who will not post and will not update the Procedural Register. Penalty is an obsolete idea. We propose a procedure that is valid and that a public service can invoke it only if it is posted in the Procedural Register. If there is a discernment between the services for the steps or prerequisites of a procedure, then valid is the information provided by the Procedural Register only. We are now going to the most important articles of the draft law, Articles 93 and 94, concerning the subject matter of subscribing to the supranationality of the company in question ‘COMMUNICATIONS 5G S.A.’. And never the Faithful Fund. It's really cynical, Minister, because you know with these articles, you're proving that not only are you in the mood to get back the public's assets, i.e. the Greek people, but from the superstition, but on the contrary you intend to give more. Even if we accept that part of the revenue from the competitive procedure for the allocation of rights to the use of radio frequencies should be directed to investments in companies even if they are located outside Greece that are active in the research or development of products and services, this cannot be done with the involvement of the overcapital. We are firmly opposed and will vote against it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again returning to the protection of personal data and cybersecurity. It is a matter of particular concern to the citizens and we must look at it very seriously. We know today that personal data are a useful tool in the hands of insurance companies that want to reduce the risk of commercial companies that want to target a particular audience, but also for those who want to manipulate public opinion. In the new era personal data are money and power. That is why, Minister, we must be very strict. We must leave nothing to chance on this issue. It must be clear who will be responsible if they leak personal data. We must ensure through specific procedures that this does not happen. I think that the issue is not dealt with with with the necessary attention, since there are still serious gaps at this level. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Change Movement has had and always has its gaze in the future. Digital governance is not something new for us. We have proved this through flagship and really innovative laws. Despite the serious objections, we are positive in the bill under discussion because we know that the country has already remained far behind the developments of the new era. But we have to run. The future won't wait for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. I would like to inform my fellow Members that there will be one or two amendments which will be tabled by the relevant ministers. As for one or two provisions in the bill, the relevant ministers will also come. In addition, the government's political leadership will also come. Because it is only Mr Zarifopoulou here who kindly asked to speak at some point, as a right, I would ask the ministers to draw up a programme between you and bring it to the Bureau because, as you can see, you will not speak six Ministers and the Members will be waiting. All six will speak, but between each Minister there will also be a number of Members who will take the floor, together with the parliamentary representatives, when their time comes. Mr. Synthrakis, the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me from this Step to express the condolences to the families of the victims of bad weather and our sympathy to those affected by it in Thessaly, the Ionian islands and other parts of the country. From the first moment on, the steps of our party were found next to the wounded both in Thessaly and in the Ionian Islands. Once again, the determination is as follows: the criminal, timeless responsibilities of governments have literally muddled human lives, homes, fields, buildings, infrastructure. Three lost lives, thousands of living labor acres, thousands of homes completely destroyed. And the measures announced by the New Democracy Government, in our view, are inadequate. In the face of this extent of disasters, it's a mockery. It is the same as the previous governments. In fact, SYRIZA has the courage to characterise these measures as "measures - aspirin" when he himself as government in Mandra and Matti had given the exact same package of measures. This is the definition of political fraud in the backs of the damaged. Now we've had the floods. In early August, Evia drowned. A few years ago Mandra went down, the Matty got burned. What is it that ties everything together? In our view, it is the eligibility policy that serves the great business interests, and that is why it has left workers, farmers, the old ones with all their strength from whatever point they could at home or outside of it in order to be saved from the covetous mud rivers. This is why the Communist Party of Greece calls for substantial measures to now be taken immediately: Transfer all these inhabitants of the flooded areas to safe places, ensure food, health care, protection for pandemic, the supply of bed covers and everything else they need until the water is pumped from their homes. To proclaim all areas in an emergency by mobilising all the competent authorities of the Government, the region and the municipalities. To bring the water out of the flooded inhabited areas. Take care of the restoration of electricity and water supply. Immediately rehabilitate the road link between the inhabited areas. To take all economic relief measures for the inhabitants of the regions by granting adequate emergency aid to each family. Record and restore damage to homes, shops, cars, fields on fishermen’s vessels. Direct compensation is paid to 100% of the losses. To delete, and not simply suspend, credit and other financial obligations in banks, taxes, municipalities concerning the debts of poor people's families, self-employed, small traders and professionals. And, of course, we must make it self-evident: Let the studies and the implementation of all necessary flooding and anti-corrosion works be started immediately in all the affected areas and that the interventions for the settlement of torrents and ravages and, of course, for the forest areas of mountainous tumors, such as the western and eastern Thessaly, which were burnt and the cause of these problems, should be carried out immediately. Now I would like to say the following in the draft law. The debate that preceded the committee as well as what was said by the bodies during their hearing did not leave much room for misinterpretation of the true intentions of the New Democracy Government about who would benefit from digital transformation, but also the mere support offered by all urban parties and of course the Greek Industrial Association, mobile companies, various information companies and saying. SYRIZA, of course, to entertain the impressions and hide his full agreement to the reactionary state modernisation and digital level raised issues of constitutional order, because, as this draft law says, it does not concern the adoption of the Code of Digital Governance and Electronic Communications, but provisions for the implementation of digital governance. There's really this objection, but that's not the point. SYRIZA limits its disagreement in the formal part, while the essence is that the code of digital governance comes to implement government planning on a coded basis for the new digital state. And that's what SYRIZA agrees. What can we do? The need to develop digital technology and digital transformation, in our view, is self-evident. It develops critical areas, such as health care, the use of telemedicine for remote island regions, the interconnection of hospitals, research institutes and universities. This is, however, one side and we must say that the government insists only on highlighting this positive effect of the digitisation of the state and the public. And of course the other parties talk about the other side of the coin. In a society that is changing quickly, there can be unfounded expectations and delusion that new technology will automatically lead to a better world, that of social well-being, or vice versa, that of demonizing technology as the great vehicle for the suffering we are experiencing: increasing unemployment, repression, poverty. Or in order to avoid misleading thinking both of technology and of the automatic social benefits that new technology will bring, we must determine who is the true guilty person who cancels the enormous potential created by workers, workers and social well-being. Therefore, behind the New Democracy Declarations on Digital Transformation of the State, the objective of exploiting new technological potential is to implement the capital strategy to the detriment of the people more effectively and more effectively by the State. The self-evident, limiting the increase of bureaucracy is being projected, but it hides the basic class objectives of this digital modernisation. This is therefore the other side of the pursuits, namely the strengthening of the state's class character by means of the digitisation. Digitalisation is indeed spectacularly improving the ability of the state mechanism to do its job better, i.e. to monitor better, to tax labour layers more and to save resources at the expense of working people's rights. All personal data, whether they are labour, economic, tax, can be made available to credit institutions, namely banks and funds, and not only with the consent of the citizen, as they say. As if we don't know what blackmail is going on around this whole story. By e-prescription, for example, the aim is to further reduce the state pharmaceutical costs which are borne on the backs of patients and their families. Governments are taking advantage of the significant delay in modernising the state services which is really afflicting the people's strata. Consider, for example, with the birth of a child the cycle a parent has to do to declare it to the registry office, the municipality, the insurance fund. So when someone hears that many services will be incorporated into a single digital portal, the gov.gr, and will be accessible through a computer and mobile phone, they can easily rest and believe in the myth of development for all. The Government does not miss the opportunity to promote that digital services reduce inequalities for people with motor difficulties, for the working mother, etc. What's he telling us? It tells us that people with motor problems, with disabilities whose allowances have been slaughtered and their rights to education, work and life are crushed every day by the policies of cuts in welfare will experience a reduction in their inequality. As for the working mother and her child who can't leave them somewhere to stand on the line of tax, we would tell you that this self-evident need should be covered by a universal preschool education system. In any case, this digital state not only does not lose its class character, but it strengthens it even more and thus not only reduces, as the Minister claims, the social inequalities, but are expanding even further. That is why, in the crucial question of who and for whom digital transformation will be exploited in the achievements of science and technology, whether access will be universal for all people in order to satisfy modern popular needs no one is responding. In the present context of capitalist production relations, the increase in the potential created by new technology in the sphere of production and trade, for example, the increase in productivity, the interconnection, management and organisation of production units, contact with customers, with suppliers and go by saying that it is a very large area of competition between monopolistic groups and imperialist forces. This draft law, in our view, is the pre-transmission of hundreds of projects to private operators and direct entrepreneurial companies in the procedures for the design and implementation of digital policy. BSE and the various domestic business groups are pushing towards moving as fast as possible so that domestic business groups are not left out of this competitive game. They deserve to have the upper hand in the central design of digital change in the digital transformation book, which, as the government says, defines the implementation of the strategy in very specific computer projects and digital transformation actions, projects and actions that are summed up in a very large number of more than three hundred in total, either in the short term or in the medium term by policy sector, in tourism, in rural development, in shipping and goes by saying. Mobile telephony companies also express their strong interest in the 5G networks by calling for incentives for investment, warm state money in order for their digital transition to be faster, with the smallest risk and most profitable. A pound of billions of euros will be directed from the recovery fund. In his criticism, SYRIZA, the king's king, criticises the New Democracy for delaying the publication of the Bible. Any delay in the publication of the digital transformation book, however, has nothing to do with the government's vulnerability, but with its intention to ensure financing to ensure investment on behalf of business groups and then update it. The Government of New Democracy, with the agreement of the other urban parties, is very much satisfied with the promotion of investment projects with special funding through the establishment of the Faith Fund, as well as with the new NSRF. The Faith Fund set up is a typical example of investment support. In fact, the Fastos Fund is an unacceptable challenge, since for the first time the State’s revenues from the rental of the public asset of frequencies will go directly back to the businesses without any interference of the public purse. Therefore, the declared objectives of digital governance for a new model of democratic governance that will restore relations between the state and the citizen that will trample corruption, opacity in the public and shape civil society in our view is the cheese in the light of the government's intention to present the anti-grassroots policies, the storm, the dissolution of the social security system and its privatisation, the wage cut, pensions and social costs, the liberalisation of redundancies, the limitation of trade union rights and the strike, the auctioning of houses and many more as a product of agreement and consent of the people. The transparency and openness of electronic governance have therefore been told before you and other bourgeois politicians, Prime Ministers and parties, it is not the new one. Everybody move to the exact same canvas. The objectives of the bourgeois state and the current government that accelerates the digitisation of the state are despite their attempt to appear in the opposite deep, but deeply unpopular. You cover that your state's role and mission do not change with these tools. Your state is geared to the service of investors and capitalists at all levels. Secondly, the promoted restructuring will bring rapid changes in the public sector to the detriment of workers by increasing intensification, reducing staff, with increased productivity in the public labour market not to a minimum benefiting the worker of the State. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would ask you for your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President. At the same time, new technology allows and will lead to intensification and, secondly, to the development of technical conditions for the monitoring of the work of each worker on a continuous basis, in how much time it has done this work and much more. Thirdly, to curb bureaucracy for the benefit of the people and workers in our view is false and disorientative. In order to reduce bureaucracy, the main for the government and the other parties are to facilitate the action of business groups. In the name of cutting red tape, any protections exist either in the public health system, in education, in the environment, in many other matters. After all, the reduction of bureaucracy was one of the main issues raised by the Association of Greek Industrialists for the competitiveness of Greek enterprises. The great problem of the people in its relationship with the state is therefore not the time to apply for a nursery, but the fact that the infrastructure is tragicly inadequate in quantity and funding. And this, for example, the digital communication of the citizen with the state not only does it not solve it for the benefit of the people, but it solves it at the expense of the people's needs, since all they can do by digitising applications is to create new filters for who is entitled to a child's station and who is not. Already the state's digitisation was combined with tax pogroms against self-employed persons in a new incomplete hunt by the state tax-spring mechanisms. The fact that no one can question is who pays state tax and how the digitisation of taxes is aimed at people's layers and not at the capital that has legal taxation. All this design of digital transformation is objectively integrated and promotes the so-called fourth industrial revolution for the benefit of capital, particularly promotes the process of total digitisation of social life itself with the negative results that we will have in education, work and conditions in the social relations that are becoming more and more visible. These developments are not random, reflect both the development of the technological instruments themselves in capitalism and the role and nature of the urban state. It is no wonder that new digital technologies will be used for a state better for the needs of businesses with intensification and redundancies for state officials. The communication code you also bring for ratification is a challenge, a mockery we would say. It is funny to talk about the protection of people's communications when you at the same time deliver the whole of their social life to a handful of groups that constantly record data. So the use of these technologies in our view is not a one-way path. It is not technically a problem, but how it is done in the present conditions, in conditions of capitalism with the urban state for the benefit of capital. These technologies, in our view, can and must be exploited for the benefit of the people, can help to involve workers in decision-making, to better coordinate the needs of society, to make workers' lives better. In order to do so, however, this is a necessary condition for all infrastructures and their production units to be popular property. Finally, a radically different path of development is needed, which is called'socialism' for us. With these thoughts, therefore, the Communist Party of Greece is voting against this draft law. Finally, Mr President, we have tabled an amendment to extend the list of successful tenderers for the recruitment of editors at the Legal Council of State. We ask the Minister to accept it and, of course, from the other parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u21	The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, thank you very much. I like that you all disagree with the bill, while you vote 'yes', except for the Communist Party. Mr. SYRIZA's rapporteur, you cannot speak on behalf of the Greek Solution, say that the other parties agree. I'm so sorry. First of all, we have not been expressed yet. But if I do not have you in agony - because you are probably struggling - we will not vote for the bill, we will not vote in favour. Mr. Georganta, I will try for you, the Ministers, the Undersecretaries and the Greeks who are following us to explain why we will not vote for the bill. The point is when we're done here to figure out what we're talking about, five things. Because today we're talking about the public, this new era you want to bring, but, Minister, you're going backwards again like the crab. I'll tell you why. We are therefore talking about the state, which is in every debate, and it is about the functioning of the state, about the organisation, with the taxes, of the state expenditure. However, how practical and functional, friendly or hostile the state to the citizen is we are not saying a word. For this is why we should begin, Mr Ministers, with the most important one - which is why I say that we are going backwards - which is the digital printing of the public. So, what do we say? We're talking about seeing what we have in our hands, what the public is. Minister, you're not making a digital picture of the public. What's the public, the public monster, we all want to change it, and no one has changed it? So we first learn what the public is and then move on to his digital era and governance. You go backwards. You go to digitalize something that you don't know what it is, what it is: How many companies, how many agencies, how many employees. You don't know anything. And the question is why so many years no government has dared to change the public, make this digital printing. They either suit people or want people to be tortured. It's a rotten system, you know it. It sends people to endless tails to be tortured. He's been testing their logic for decades. Minister, the public system has been at ease - and tell me if you disagree somewhere, I will listen to you - hundreds of thousands of people and you have turned the public into parties. Not you, all those who ruled. The point is: can we organise the public? Do you want to organise it or do you want to support for other decades this chaotic situation for Greek citizens? Do we really want to fight the ghost of the public or maintain it as it is? You should have done the minimum, Minister, before you brought this bill here. By removing the fax and the gov.gr - they are fine - you do not change the image of the public. If, then, you really wanted to go ahead with something essential, you had to do the self-evident and the least. We'll say it and we'll call it: We'll digitally capture the public charter. We need to know how many services the government has. Do you know how many services the public has? You don't know. Lieutenant, don't put your hand on fire, you don't know. You don't know how many of them from the first to the last office. I'm not talking about your own ministry. Find out the real number of people working in the public sector. About two thousand are the secrets from the seven hundred thousand, which are in total. Seven hundred thousand and two hundred thousand, we get close to a million. There's no background to be able to talk about the next steps, to do all that you bring here. And every time we talk without any sense. It's outrageous. Everyone you've got business will understand. We are living at a time when we are tracking and recording, for example in a supermarket, from the first to the last product, the last gum it has in there. And we can't record the Greek public. Because the Greek state is a company, it's our home, it's our business. We're all in there of interest. And we don't know what's inside, what's in it. So, as in all things, as in the example I gave you, a code is needed. A product, for example, from the time it comes out of the field until it is sold packed has a code that follows. Any batch failure or anything we know which code is. So what do we do? We're withdrawing it. We find the people responsible and go by saying, to know what's going on. These are reasonable things, simple things. If we are talking about the public, if you want to say now 'all good and all good and good, and what a good thing New Democracy has done', we are entering that logic and we are not going to follow. So why should the same logic of the code, the code, not apply to the Greek State? I would like Mr Pierracakis to be here, who is aware of his subject matter, because I will refer to him now. Minister, since 2010, "DINAYIA" has said that there should be organograms and, indeed, with contact details. It is Article 8 of the Law on Employment. If I ask you how many departments your department has, how many of these departments only serve two employees, do you know how much you answer? It's chaotic. You don't know. The tool we are talking about today is the digital imprint of the monster. That's where you should start. You vote for a monster. It's not enough that we have the red tape you're going to do digital. Oh, no! Dismantle the bureaucracy, fix the public, then digitize it. Go backwards. You know well that the tool I'm talking about is useful. Because Mr. Pierracakis before becoming Minister was Director of the NEEOS and was a strong supporter of this view, the digital printing of the public. Now, as a minister coming, he doesn't. He's doing it backwards again. The proposal therefore contains what we are talking about for a central digital network with data on the inventories of civil servants. I'll remind you of something else. First bill passed here was the final state, at the end of July, after the elections. I was a speaker. I remember as Mr Gerapetititi there at the corner saying that 'the next week's bill will be that of digitizing the printing of the public.' It's been four hundred twenty days, not seven, but you didn't bring it. Mr. Gerapedritis said so here. Four hundred and twenty days have passed. The next bill would be a good one. I'll get an example for people to understand what you're doing right now. Minister, can you tell a engineer to build a house for you - to tell him "make a study, I want a house" - but not to have done the topography? That's what you're doing now, so you understand. It's like asking the Greek Police to go and take security measures for a football match, for example, without knowing the dangers. Where's he going? Do what? What's to take care of? Well, that's self-evident. Just stuff. We are trying to give just examples - because I was listening - I did not understand much - so that people could understand what is going to be voted on today. So how do we think that something can be done in administrative reform, which we are talking about today, if we have not captured the real environment? I said it before and I repeat it. The state is our common home. The state is the business of all of us. So we have to know who lives in our house and who works in our business. We don't know that, unfortunately. And all that sounds self-evident, but no one is doing it. I'll tell you something else, because it's unfair to civil servants. With all that shit in place, some civil servants pay for it for free, because we say they're all bad guys. We level everyone, and it's bad, it's wrong. This offends conscientious civil servants, the right ones. Because that's how we generalize everything. And, of course, it also offends us taxpayers, who pay contributions to pay for free, who should not be paid, some archipelagos. And this has to stop. Minister, since 2013 there has been a specific proposal from Mr Dionysios Rigopoulos. He is an engineer specializing in computing modelling, a former public administration auditor. Nothing. Nothing happened. You're not listening to anyone. Not just you now. But you go on with it. But none of the previous ones who ruled this country. Do you know what you're interested in? You are talking about digital governance, about a public function, but all you care about at the level of political leaders SYRIZA and New Democracy is to fight, to wrestle who has the fewer or more poster: "You took so many, you took so many", to show us once again the saddle. Because that's what you do, nothing more. Legislation of codes, legislation of books, gates to public administration. You're lost in the labyrinth! Tell us really when a law, Minister, needs more than a hundred ministerial decisions, presidential decrees, opinions, how practicable and operational this law is. Let's have a word. And what's it gonna change tomorrow? Let's go a little to people's lives, ask something: Today you are voting on this bill. What's going to change tomorrow? So if today this bill will be passed and it becomes a civil law, will you give the outstanding pensions more quickly? Oh, no. Will you make decisions more quickly on any new pension application? Oh, no. And because we are talking about the FBI, is it true that there is no, Minister, the staff required for the processing of pension applications and with groups and sub-groups you are trying to patch up the increased volume of work there? The same tactic that SYRIZA was following you. You're the same! No surprise! Same agenda, same skills, same mistakes, you are the same, so same! Unbelievable! You're talking about digital state reform, when computers in public services are in 1980! And you're talking about digital reform? That's not happening! Start with the basics before going to make the big jump and applaud your audience. Start with the basics! With regard to the bill - for example, to understand what you are doing now - you said that you would abolish the fax. In fact, the fax will be abolished. When will the fax be abolished? On 1-10-2020, i.e. in eight days, we wouldn't have a fax like today, we'd be crying about the fax. And because you see things are getting ahead of you and you're going to make it a mess, you're going to extend the fax to 1-1-2021 before you vote on the bill. But it's already pulling your system inside. It's pulling you in. You'll sink again, no way! You will not apply any of what you are going to vote on today, Mr rapporteur! Nothing! You said very well, as if we lived in Luxembourg. I won't! I told you, you see what you have first, you record it, and then you try to fix it, digit it, whatever you want to do. The ones with the public. Now we're going to some other bill. Personal data protection: We must not, Minister, in the name of digitisation and on this occasion transfer personal data - it is a very sensitive subject - citizens in various services, banks, companies, lockers, without the appropriate security and security barriers. We're talking about cybersecurity. Is there a IT technician right now who can secure, tell us, sign it that 100% is not a way to hack and get a citizen's personal data? Oh, no. But it's impossible to do this. So there's a risk. How will connectivity, the interoperability of public services, the storage of governmental Nefes, the Cloud that you are going to do, if there are no security mechanisms, what we have told you, 'government security'? Have you ensured the protection of citizens' personal data? You've got to answer us. These are the key questions. You have to tell us 'yes, we are responsible for the government and we tell the Greek citizens that 100% of their personal data are guaranteed'. Are you going to say that? We will also vote, but so we cannot vote. What can we vote for? You are judging the infamous Personal Number. - What's our name? - AMKA, I.D., we're putting another number on. You tell me, they'll be abolished. When they're abolished, let's see. You put everything together, you put it all together! Ordinary citizens' freckles. You've organised this file very well. In the rest you're not doing well, on the freckle you're fine. You've organised it well - to say things with their name - and that proves when it's foreseen - listen! - that the user of the single digital portal, i.e. I, to get in now, can enter this gate using e-banking codes - listen! - with the e-banking codes I can get into the digital portal and do my job. Ordinary freckles! You're not getting out of nowhere! And of course, NGO - lusciousness finds ground here too. NGOs can't be missing. And here, NGO, why are you doing? You are exempted from the requirement of digital accessibility on the NGO websites, namely an NGO that does not provide basic services for the public - to say it Greek, simply - and wants to enter this website does not need to have a number. They can do whatever the NGOs want. All right, so NGO can get into her mobile device, she doesn't have to put anything on. And who will judge which NGOs provide basic services and which do not? Who's gonna judge that? Tell us. And why are you putting EUR 3 000 in the obligation to post the "DENMARK" of the subsidised operators? So, the EUR 2,900, the EUR 2,000, the EUR 1,000 is a little money? Since the 1st euro had to enter "GENERAL", because it becomes a party after that. That's what you got in there. And I close with a very important point too, to see the substance of the bill, one, two, three, because it has two hundred and thirty articles, but to see the main pillars. As far as the 5G is concerned, we have done so in the committees, and we are doing so today - that it is not possible in the name of technology to bring in provisions that you do not know - be careful! - if they have a negative effect on the health of the citizens. You know that? So you, Mr. Undersecretary, will go to Stepma today and tell the Greek people that 5G has no side effect on the health of Greek citizens. But you will prove it with research and scientists. Good! Because I here, Mr. Deputy Minister, have letters from Greek scientists from all over the world - listen a little, they are scientists - Christos Georgios, Professor of Biochemistry, Department of Biology, University of Patras Biology - I think you disprove him - Theodoros Metsis, engineer - electrician environment, electrician, specialist in electrical pollution, Lucas Margaritis, honest professor of Radiobiology and Electronic Microscopy, Nikolopoulou Stamatis, Professor of Environmental Pathological Anatomics. What do these people say? They say: "...in order to inform you with undeniably scientific evidence that the spread of these technologies is critically affecting public health due to the vertical increase in electronic environmental pollution no longer outside, but within domestic, educational, hospital and other countries." That's what doctors say, so I won't tell you anything else. These are their studies. You tell us if you ensure to Greek citizens that their health is not at risk, but now, before it is voted on, not 'I vote for it and then I do research and I present research' today. And of course, the other scandal is terrible, we've given it all up, power, water, whatever you want, to give our evolution to the excess. Do you establish 5G S.A. CONTACTS in the superstition, we also give this to the superstition? Everything in the superstition? There's nothing left in this country, we've sold it all out. And that's at the disposal of the lenders! That is why we do not agree on what is to do with electronic communications and the use of 5G, to the extent that we are always at risk - and we need to be shown by scientists and the government to ensure that we are safe - the health of citizens. We should not, therefore, risk the health of citizens. In conclusion, I would like to point out that modernising the state is necessary. Of course it is necessary, but we must logically move forward - step by step, as you have said, first digital printing and then, see what we have in our hands. There must also be certain limits, Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, so that the state's digitisation respects and protects the identity of Greek citizens first and foremost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 23 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1041/15-9-2020 was raised by Piraeus, Member of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Finance, on "Support measures for enterprises - Workers of Poros and Galata (Trise)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 1046/17-9-2020 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Christos Giannoulis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Provocative debt deletion from Piraeus Bank to the business interests of Mr. Piladaki". 3. Question No 1051/21-9-2020 by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Direct reinforcement of the farmers of Thessaly affected by the Janus”. 4. The question by No 1060/21-9-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Reimbursement of artistic schemes and artists whose live performances - listening have been postponed or cancelled under the responsibility of the organizers". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1061/21-9-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “The problems of amateur football teams in Heraklion”. And we close the general rapporteurs and special speakers with Mrs Fotini Bakadima from Mera25. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill introduced by the Ministry of Digital Governance, which is yet again an attempt to settle - in a way - the digital operation of the public and the digital services that this offers to the citizens. With several more technical points in the bill, I think we have been placed in a comprehensive manner - to the extent that we could - because they are two hundred and thirty-two articles - within the committees, so today I will only stand by some of the provisions that we consider to be the most problematic ones, starting, of course, with the personal number of Article 11 for which there has been a great debate over the last few days. What, then, is the Personal Number you are establishing today? A 12-digit number consisting of numerical and alphanumeric figures and accompanying each citizen. So, in depth for two years, we will only use him, cease making use of the AMA, AMKA, APM and all the numbers we have today in our transactions with the public. However, the Personal Data Protection Authority itself in its 2012 report pointed out that the matching of a unique identifier to each natural person, on the basis of which it will be identified by all actors, should be avoided because it increases the risk of illegal data interconnection. Just what the principle prevents us from having legislation, does it not have any dangers to the citizens' personal data? It is also mentioned in the draft law, that the Personal Number Register will contain those elements considered necessary and necessary for the identification of all natural persons, such as surname, mother name, father name, ID card number, AMKA and APM. How is this Personal Number Register defined, however, and why has many bodies pointed out that the evidence it maintains is more than necessary to identify elements of a proportion of citizens, for example minors? According to the project prepared by the Ministry, the migration will be gradual so that the citizen can use it for some initial period - as we have said, it is about two years - to use his old codes, for example AMKA and APM, but also the personal number, in parallel to the operation of the systems. We asked the committee the same question today: Do you think, Minister, that the system will be ready to work when we cannot yet use our Taxisnet codes to connect to gov.gr and we have to use e-banking codes? Do you think it is possible for two systems to function at the same time every year as the system opens to submit tax declarations, a few hours later, as has been done - and it was not the first time - in the communication of the bases of the pan-Hellenic examinations? Let us now see another use of the number of staff in our daily lives. That is an example I have set out in committee. I didn't have your answer, Minister. I hope I have it today. Let's imagine that one of us, a citizen goes to hire a job. Today, when it's about making your intake, you give your insurance record number, you give your AMKA, you give your AMD. After two years and after the system's migrated, you'll give your personal number along with the ID number. So the personal data operator you have established a few months ago in the relevant bill will be able, without anyone knowing his objective qualifications, as the only qualification you have created is the completion of a seminar, have access to the personal number of my own, your own, any citizen who works in a business. So how are we going to ensure that these sensitive personal data of an undertaking's employees are not found sold, will they not be sold? We all know that these databases are a gold mine and a real treasure for companies that need them. What clauses will be introduced to protect citizens? At the same time, the law provides for a series of electronic seals, signatures, timeliness of various levels to validate the authenticity of the texts and certificates, and the creation of the Confidentiality Services, which will confirm the validity of the previous ones. From the outset we have said that we find this technology entirely bureaucratic and complicated. Documents can be verified by only one digital signature and not by a number of different ones, as is also the case in several European countries. Moving on now, I will go to Articles 34 and 35 entitled 'Communication and websites'. These articles concern the electronic communication of natural and legal persons with public bodies, as well as the uniform standards that should be followed on the websites of bodies. This is positive forecasts. However, it remains to be seen whether or not a wish will be applied or remain in a country where a citizen does not even receive an automated confirmation message when he sends an e-mail to try to communicate with a public service. With this current situation, Minister, we are talking about positive articles, which provide for the communication of citizens and public bodies, but while remaining in the air and not knowing whether they will be able to be implemented. Continuing, Articles 36 to 47 concern digital accessibility, certainly a necessary component and an opportunity to strengthen and accelerate. Articles 59 to 74 concern ‘open data’. I would like to point out that for us the issue of 'open data' is extremely important. The ‘open data’ refers to the full availability of all public texts through the citizens’ websites and are an important tool to ensure interoperability. However, we also have our reservations here - although the provision is in the right direction - whether it will be implemented, given the many ambiguities surrounding the paragraphs in question. Articles 75 to 83 refer to ‘TRAINING’. We believe that the "DIAGY" should be clearly updated, but that the way of use should also be improved, so that the citizen can immediately seek, be informed and monitor the functioning of the state. Article 84 and interoperability. We find interoperability and interconnection extremely important, which is why we are looking forward to all those efforts that strengthen it. Articles 85 to 88 concern the infrastructure of Cloud and the provision of digital public services through these ‘clouds’. The computing infrastructure when keeping important data must be durable and surplus. So - and it is something that I also pointed out to the committee without getting any answers - there should be two to three Clouds for the GSP, two to three for the IRS and so on. So we are talking about a total of six to nine overcapacity. So, if something happens to an infrastructure, users can be served by the other, etc. If we look at other examples of European countries, we will see that Austria has three mutually supported and interoperable infrastructures with each other being able to support all demand. However, we have not seen any prediction of one in the plan we are discussing. Let us now move to the fund which has become a great deal of talk - and it has been rightly done - the Faith Fund, which is created by the provisions of the bill and is essentially a project aimed at investing in companies active in research into the development of 5G applications and services. Through the Faith Fund, it seeks to create the necessary ecosystem in the country that will exploit the potential of the "fifth generation networks". In this way, according to government forecasts, together with incentives for forward investment, investment will be accelerated by telecommunications companies to create the fifth generation network. The funds, and the Faith Fund, will come from 25% of the revenues received from the public as a result of the 5G auction, which is expected to be opened in the near future. In the event that, in future, spectral zones become technically available for the fifth generation network and their rights of use are granted, one quarter of public revenue from the tenders for the allocation of radio frequencies rights in these areas will be added to the fund's assets. In addition to the expected revenues through the 5G spectrum tender, Faist's funds will also come from private financing, since private and institutional investors can participate in its assets. You will ask me this: “Why do you respond? Why do you have a different view?" It is precisely because this fund will not be under the control of the Greek state, although it will manage money that is rightfully owned by Greek citizens. We believe - and not wrongly - that we are thus giving another asset. Of course, the grant of 5G technology research is mainly benefiting telecommunications providers. Although you said at the last meeting of the committee, Minister, that this is not the case, we all know that the suppliers themselves are the ones who will implement the investigation. Moreover, they themselves have the relevant know-how. Also, these newly-born businesses may come from abroad, since, unfortunately, domestic research technology "five generation" is still on embryonic level. So, practically, we will pay for the development of the applications which we will then come to buy from the providers. This provision runs completely counter to our proposal, our proposal to grant spectrum rights for research in all areas of technology and to create a wide range of Greek technology products. Articles 95 to 108 include provisions concerning, inter alia, areas outside television coverage, the abolition of the use of fax in the public sector, the confirmation of the authenticity of the signature. Without a doubt, we have been delayed to legislate enough of these as long as we do not lead, as many colleagues have pointed out, and it is a fear that many of us have expressed in the creation of a new 'i - bureaucracy' of a 21-century digital red tape and ensure that citizens enjoy better service and have the best possible relationship with public bodies and services. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The second part of the bill includes the incorporation into our country's law of two European directives aimed at creating an appropriate legal framework to ensure the freedom to provide services and networks, the freedom and security of electronic communications, and measures relating to public safety, public health and public order by collaborating at a pan-European level sectors such as media, telecommunications and the information society. In conclusion, as Mera25, we consider it necessary and therefore welcome every step that brings our country even late in the 21st century's digital age, which is why we voted in favour at first. We cannot, however, condemn the fact that the legislation leaves an open window for the loss of technological sovereignty over private and foreign companies as well as the fact that the 5G participations are going through the supermarket, effectively divesting this asset of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you to Mrs Bakadima for the consistency in time. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor. Then we will enter the list of speakers and the State Secretarys who have already expressed interest in intervening in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, if we lived in the 5th century before Christ and had the comedy of Aristophanes, I would say that maybe this bill is the right thing to become a comedy. Why am I saying that? We are the country with the most expensive mobile telephony, Minister. It does not exist in Europe more precisely. And you're bringing me 5G here? Look at the Minister of Development and the Prime Minister to see what we're going to do about cell phone prices, about increased fixeds and all that. Because I have German, you know sometimes in Germany, I see huge differences. Are we talking about 5G here when we have the most expensive mobile phone across Europe? What state is that? So if you want 5G, I will read to you, Mr Minister, what your Minister for the Environment - your colleague, not the same Ministry, but the Belgian Minister - said in relation to the 5G. So, listen, ladies and gentlemen, you are voting on this today: 'I cannot welcome this technology if the limits of exposure to radiation that protects citizens are not respected. Because companies don't respect them. The residents of Brussels are not Indian piglets whose health I can sell for profit." All right, Brusselsians and MEPs are not guinea pigs. The inhabitants of Greece are Greek goats, are they sheep? I do not understand why Greece should all be doing on the basis of experiments. In 2012 IMF in Greece. Experiments with the coronary, the Greeks. Unlike other measures in other countries, you impose stricter measures. Tell me why. Let's go to Rome. In Italy and there we had the same reactions and banned 5G in Rome. The mayor's out there. Two hundred and twenty - nine Italian teachers speak of evidence of harm to humans and the environment. I read the Italian text. So how do you come here? You know, I'll say it, I can't say it - the one who doesn't have gasoline in the car, Minister, and he's preparing parking. We don't even have a car. We're a country way back in technology, and it's not going back, and we need to be a laboratory, not just technology, here you make a crime, and I'll tell you now. You also enter a geopolitical-gestrategic conflict between ‘HUAWEI’ that is Chinese, and ‘NOKIA’, while the Americans are pushing you not to put ‘HUAWEI’. I repeat, my Minister, you are driving the country as a two-collected China-United States animal. Why? What is the point of becoming the apple of shame again claiming two major powers over the head of Greece as to whether we will take this or take the other one? They're questions, you know, that sometimes we have to look at them and a little bit seriously. But I would like to congratulate the people who lost their lives in Thessaly. We had two dead. Don't let most of us forget in here. These losses, but also the theorem, are due not to the cyclone, hurricane, and I don't know what else. I'll tell you what's due. The craftsmen of the works that are due both here and here, and here. Can I tell you something? No left-hand parade built. It is the Great River, he has flooded and done evil, ladies and gentlemen. There has been no malformation while it has to be done on the basis of studies. No new bridges built. Most bridges are old, never became bridges in the area. The river's never been controlled. The flow is not controlled in any Greek river. Honestly, if we do any checks, we'll see that there's a problem with the streams, with the rivers. There's no maintenance of anti-military works. There's no funds for any damage. And listen: Two of the five water pumps work all over the area. These pumps are powered by PPC. If PPC is interrupted and damaged, the plain is flooded again. I'm telling you, tragic mistakes are taking place. Why am I telling you this? The Prime Minister went, Mr. Tsipras went, and a step of ours was sent there. We were obliged to go, but we did not go ourselves to show the MPs or the President of the Party that he was going to pluck on people's misery. We did it technically, and I told you where the problems are. They went there with experts from our own and told us what the problem was. I am sure it will not be solved, because this is not the first time that the region has been flooding. We were dead. I'm saying it in very simple words. I just can't say it. Now we are going to my friends to the Members of the New Democracy, whom I honor most, because I know that they deeply mutter, whisper, indignant, want to tear their clothes apart for what their government is doing with Turkey. The ‘ORUC REIS’ has been re-established. Did you find out, Minister? He's walking around again. Sooner or later, he's coming out again. And you insist on a dialogue with a guy who is a fascist, is authoritarian, is a slaughterer, a slayer, a militant and all the worst a man could have if he is called a man Erdogan. Because for me, he's not human. Cyprus, therefore, friends and friends, saved the honor of Hellenism. Unfortunately, the betrayal you made yesterday, as a government, only let Anastasiades say the great "no" is a betrayal that stigmatizes the New Democracy. Cyprus said 'no' to Belarus, unless sanctions are imposed on Turkey in relation to what it does in the Mediterranean. And the New Democracy, unfortunately, not only did not help Cyprus, but turned its back on it. The mother Greece - in Cyprus suffering from chauvinism, as well as the occupation of Turkish occupation troops - sold the Cypriot brothers once again. This isn't the first time. And I'm saying you can trust Merkel? And I wonder, is it possible for Akar to learn the Greek political system of dialogue? Yesterday Akar said so again. He says, "All the things that are going on at the forefront continue the dialogue within NATO." What dialogue, under which conditions, what prerequisites, what objections, what claims, what compromises, as Piat said, on the 'OPEN' channel, that Greece wants to make compromises with Turkey? Reconciling what? When the stadium between me and him told me that "we didn't change our position. The positions of the United States are the same", in Tweeter. And I ask him directly at the time: "The islands have an EOZ? They do. So, what compromises does Greece make? Is 12 nautical miles entitled to Greece? Yeah. What is Greece's compromise to make?' He didn't answer me. However, the answer came from the Embassy of the United States of America, which said that these maps, friends and friends that the European Union demanded that the countries of the European Union should have an EEZ do not apply to NATO and America. I'm telling you with very simple words, but we're doomed. And we are doomed to have a government which discusses demilitarisation of islands. Because, if he does not ask for that, Turkey is constantly putting it in place. Why doesn't the government deny it? Why does the government not say by Mr. Pecha that we are not discussing the demilitarisation of the islands? So I challenge the Greek Government to say it publicly that it does not discuss behind-the-military demilitarisation of the islands. I'm sure that even the hundred and fifty-eight are against, even Mitsotakis, in doing this thing. I'm sure of it! There can be no Greek here through the three hundred who would say 'yes' to the demilitarisation of the islands. I can't imagine that thing. I am not talking about the airspace, I am not talking about the twelve miles, I am not talking about the FIR where you are talking from today - it is revealed by the newspaper DIMMOCRATIA - co-management of the FIR. Where are we going, guys? Do you know where we're going? When America comes, the ambassador to Ankara and says that the Map of Seville is of no legal value to the United States, it means that Greece does not have an EEZ with Cyprus. It tells you a friendly country, yours, not mine. I also told Mr Piatt that otherwise your interest in America and Greece's interest. You dare tell him that? Oh, no. America comes out and says so, the Ambassador of the United States to Ankara that the Map of Seville, which records the Greek-Cyprus EEZ connection, has no legal effect. You're out of the Americans. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you're finished by the Americans, you don't care and I know that, 'It's okay, we'll go down.' It is not so - and I will say this once again to the hundred and fifty eight Members of the New Democracy - and I shall read to you the text of a man, whom Mr Mitsotakis loves, according to his own statement, and there is video. "A victory will be ours if it reigns in our hearts only the Greek feeling. The friend of the strangers is a traitor". The Prime Minister invoked him! Ioannis Kapodistrias: "People's Friend"! And we listen to Merkel, and what she asks, and what we implement it immediately. Shame on you! We're emptying Cyprus. Why? A small island, hundreds of thousands of soulless Cypriots say "no" and we, the millions, the powerful Greece we kneel to the orders of the Germans. It's wrong. Friends and friends of mine, Erdogan goes out with courage and asks for a Greek newspaper to be prosecuted. None of the government made a statement, neither Mr. Petsas nor the other parties. I refer to the newspaper 'DIMMOCRATIA'. What did they say to Erdogan? They used an expression that's not Turkish. It comes out of the "is in pity" - those who know ancient Greek understand what I'm saying - that's how the "Ii sichir" comes out. Well, yes, what the newspaper said and asking for the criminal prosecution from the Greek government of the newspaper. New Democracy didn't even come out to make a announcement about freelance. Not even one! If it was about any progressive, no mosques, about something else, I know, you'd make announcements, not the MPs, your party. There's nothing here! We don't care when they come out and ask for the prosecution of journalists and newspapers. What can I say? No party! If it were anything else, they'd all be making announcements. I'm telling you, why? Because I would remind the New Democracy of this demilitarisation which you have not disproved, and I would ask Mr Petsa to deny that we are discussing the demilitarisation of islands. He doesn't. I've been asking for ten days. In 1967 the seventeenth year withdrew a division just before and shortly after, and in 1974, we had an invasion. Let's learn from our mistakes. It was a division from Cyprus and took place in 1967. Let us learn from the mistakes we have made in the past and not repeat the same mistakes as the demilitarisation of islands. I will not say what Greece is obliged to do, I will not go into this. But I will say something, which is a complaint from a very well-known friend of my university professor, German, not Greek. It tells me "not a Greek government since 1974" - later, of course. when we entered Europe - 'he did not demand from European countries when selling arms to Turkey to stop the sale of arms while Cyprus is in possession and as much as it is causing Greece'. He called it a professor of German. A government did not demand this, namely that you will not sell arms to the Turks until they withdraw troops from there until they stop provoking Greece. You have never officially done so and you have never even been a whisper on this subject, even one step, something. I'm going to tell you one more thing about it with soul pain: I don't know how many Jews here are in New Democrats. That farmer, how are you gonna see him in the eyes, guys? That farmer who went and defended, as the Constitution says, in the violation of our borders, how will the Jewish MPs see him in the eyes? You tell me! He came out of a Greek court and convicted him with twenty-six months in prison for gunfire. Listen, for everyone they know, the farmer had a gun, a shotgun, and he brought a hunting gun. The hunting season shall be valid until 28 February. How, then, does the court convict him of possession of weapons and weapons? Illegal decision by an illegal court, which - I repeat - only did so to acquit the others who entered illegally. How will the farmers, the Greeks, guard the borders? The military who arrest illegal immigrants will soon pass through a court of court. What are you doing? Mrs. Prosecutor, Mrs. Chrysostomidou, Mr. Athens, Mrs. Keramida, the Prosecutor and Mrs. Dionysia Milesi didn't know that? How do they convict someone who legally bears a gun for illegal possession and armour? He didn't use the gun, he didn't put it against people, so how is that man being convicted? Friends and friends, now we're going to your German friends. I've said it a thousand times and I'm so tired, but you don't understand, you don't want to understand. The Germans are not friends of the country. Germany is an eighty-eighty-year-old country that supports the Turkish factor. It's over and over! Understood! For historians, for geopoliticals, for geostrategic roles and reasons I won't explain it now. But I'll tell you this. In an article in the 'DIE WELT' he says one truth. Here's how much money the global banks had at the end of the first quarter of their loans to Turkey, EUR 154 billion. And you here, and hope that Merkel will impose sanctions on Turkey with 154 billion loans? France 29 billion, Spain 62 billion. Here's Borrell your friend, airship, and 162 billion together. Where to impose sanctions on Turkey? Is it a fool to shoot his legs? The Spanish bank BBVA holds almost 50% of Garanti Bank. Look at their complications. Germany 11 billion, Italy 8.7 billion a quarter. What does that prove? That Europe will never impose sanctions. Understood! And because your government knew that, and Mr. Dendias and Mr. Mitsotakis, the only diplomatic weapon that Greece had has turned it off by means of a statement by the Prime Minister from the IGC, that we will not use sanctions against Turkey and are not ashamed of the New Democracy. The only diplomatic weapon, the sanctions were dismantled by both Mr Teddy and the Prime Minister, and we are not all a little ashamed of each other. We all have to be ashamed of ourselves. We don't say war, diplomatic weapon is sanctions. What can we talk about now? Which country are we living in, guys? Now we're going to Rethymnon. Here's what's going on in Rethymno, as in Maroussi, Nice and Galatsi. I've got the excerpts here and I'll testify to them in the Minutes. They went and bought buses from Turkey, the municipalities of Amarousi, Galatsi, Rethymno. Do you understand? Turkish buses! That was two months ago, and we're not ashamed of each other. We're giving Turks money, you know? How long will this nonsense go? How long will this stupidity go? I will not say treason, for me it is treason, but because I do not speak as a party president in this way, I say this nonsense, this stupidity. You tell me! I buy me, the Municipality of Amarousio buses with money from the Greek people! The Municipality of Amarousi, the Municipality of Rethymno, the Municipality of Painting! It's unbelievable, guys! I don't get it. I have here in the evidence of Rethymno and Amarusios, and I'll submit it to the Minutes. A minister didn't pick up the phone and say, "Maybe what are you doing? Why are you doing this? Why should we take buses from Turkey? What is the point of financing Turkey to take arms and fight and blackmail Greece?" Isn't there one? I honestly wonder when I see this. The first lie, the first lie, is a first lie, and I said it well - and I see in the portal this thing, advertising Akinji. Do you see it? First lie! Advertisement of the False Heads of State or Government. Aren't we a little embarrassed? I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. How far can this place arrive? Ladies and gentlemen, I have said this once again and I will say it again: SYRIZA and New Democracy are the same. You're the same. It comes out, Mr Ragosi, former Prime Minister Tsipras from the IGC and warns Mr Mitsotakis not to bring the sanctions concerning Skopje here. He was warned by roll-call vote. For the first time I see in the roll-call vote, which is an extraordinary task of a parliamentary group, 15 or twenty days ago. You're doing this by way of emergency to show them. But that was the support of Mr Mitsotakis on the part of Mr Tsipras, revealing his intention that he would vote roll-call for the New Democracy not to bring the sanctions, and that no neo-democrats should be exposed, because I am sure that not one person will vote for these sanctions. Not even a neo-democrat, because they have a patriotic feeling, will not vote for the Skopje sanctions. I'm sure of that. Well, as the earth turns. Sure? How can you be sure of what you're voting for? But, in any case, I say'sure'. And Mr. Tsipras warns him. He tells him, by roll call, he announces it. Jesus Christ! It's never happened before. That is what you are doing at that time to expose a party, politically, to report on it. He warned you, gentlemen. Don't worry, Mr. Tsipras supports you. You're intertwining. You're alike. And tell you why? Because our proposal to take Mr Kotzia and SYRIZA to a committee of inquiry is still the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoulus, to bring her in. He told me April he'd bring her, May he'd bring her, June he'd bring her. I was young and old. This parliamentary term will be over. We're talking about it next time, we're gonna be older anyway. You want, you don't want, next time we'll be over thirty, and we'll bring her on our own to finish the story. Let's see who betrayed Macedonia. You're the same, unfortunately. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And it goes out - I don't know who said that, the Prime Minister said it, Mr. Petsas said it - and he says that the illegal immigrants are superactive. Someone said that illegal immigrants are overactive children and burned Moria. Okay, so next time what should they do, burn us down? Are they hyperactivators? I know a hyperactivity is someone who's practicing. Who are they, the new Neroes? The Prime Minister said so. So Mr. Mitsotakis tells superactive pyromantics, the ones who burn what the Greek people pay. What can I say? I know. Okay, word failure, I'll say. It's not a verbal failure. I believe that everything is being done on the basis of a plan. So I read from the newsit.gr. See how journalists twist the news. The newsit.gr that has taken a lot of money out of 20 million if I'm not mistaken. Title: "Women and children among migrants rescued in Gadus". I'm in shock too. I'm saying kids, women, okay, kid, it's logical to host them. And he says in "Afghan immigrants, fifty-two in total, among them five to six children, five to six women." See how they do brainwash. They invest in people's feelings, women and children, five to six are inside. The rest of them are twenty-year-old, twenty-five-year-old, Afghan and Pakistani. What can I tell you? With these journalists you've been paying since the 20 million you're trying to change people's logic. And since some people smile, I'll tell you directly to understand it. I do not know how much it honors the New Democracy that the anti-racist law, ladies and gentlemen, because you smiled, we proposed that there be Greek-phobia and Christian-phobia, you deny it. We make you a law proposal to Islamophobia to put Christianophobia and Greek-Phone. Why don't you do it? Yesterday, in Rhodope, they burned the Holy Bank. I'll tell you what. In the BIAL of Chios they burned the Holy Bank and the Gospel, the day before yesterday, at the church. In Rhodope the same thing yesterday. We have tabled a proposal for a law here, within the law of the anti-racist, which you voted on. The anti-racist law, to learn Greeks, became law by New Democracy, not by SYRIZA, from New Democracy became, as was the law on nationality fast track by your party. So I'm saying, because you've interpreted diffusive conditions, I'll tell you this. Article 49 of the Geneva Convention says that the systematic transfer of a population for the purpose of population overthrows is prohibited. Here it is, Geneva says, I'm not saying it. Here we have a systematic transfer from Erdogan to Greece to overthrow our population. What do we have to do with other evidence beyond that? And there is the statement by the former Algerian President, Juari Bumentien, "With the belly of our women we shall conquer France". He said it 15 years ago, 20 years ago, man, with the belly you see and say "a pity the pregnant ones", who have five to six children each, who have five to six men each or five to six women each. How do we allow it, guys, to be ‘a man and have five women? Well, isn't that barbaric? How can I allow this to happen to a European society? Or the clitoritectomy in the woman since seven years of age? I can't. Islam has nothing. Clearly. It's a religion, I repeat, that you can coexist. But with the extremist circles, the fanatical circles, those inhumans, I, something Pakistanis who take whips and blurred with razors and some clitorits, I can't coexist. We can't coexist with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u27	Mr. President, how much longer are you going to need?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u28	Another three minutes, Mr President, no more. Parent's complaint in the European Kilkis: Fifteen minors enter high school, minor illegal immigrants - now, today, they go - with seventeen Greeks. Let it go through the window and put them as you wish. Tell me this child, Pakistani, what knowledge does he have in high school, who enters with the Greeks, which means that in order to teach this the knowledge of the Greeks must be subjected to? Don't you understand? Aren't you teachers or teachers in here? When I have knowledge, and the other one has no knowledge, the teacher will necessarily lower the level of cognitive to equilibrium. How do you put them in the same class? What things are you talking about? How is that possible? As Mr Mylonis says, 'What things are!' Jesus Christ! What about the worst? A letter to the Public Prosecutor - how much does he honor the New Democracy? - from IOM. You know what he's saying? That IMO refuses, in a case of child rape, to give evidence. Why is he refusing? Because he doesn't have the right, they have immunity, he says, in Greece. It's the DOM! I will submit this to the Minutes for your ministers to see it here. If I get the IMO out and say, in rape of a seven-year-old kid in the cab, did they rape a child that they didn't give evidence? IM? What is it, a state in a state? Here's the document. So the district attorney can't control an IM. You'll tell me we're still waiting for the register of you with the NGOs, where no one was registered and you didn't close one. That's who you are. He refuses control. Twenty-five-year-old Afghan raped a seven-year-old in Serres and denied the prosecution's control. I won't say the other thing that's heard. Friends and friends, Mark Twain, the American writer, had said something very good about New Democracy now, is receptive: Faith in the homeland forever, faith in the party and the government when it deserves it. And, unfortunately, this government, with what it does, is not worth the pressure of the Members of the New Democracy, because it is all contradictory and all distorting. Why? I'll answer you with arguments. A prisoner in Soufly was abolished 15 days ago, gentlemen. This imprisonment was an impediment to the embezzlement. He reported it to me yesterday, a senior officer, and I'll testify to you here. A briefcase in Soufly. Fifty soldiers were there, and there was a stir of intruders. You took them and every day they get twenty - thirty of them. That's who you are. Now tell me it's my fault. I am telling you specific things in which you really cannot answer me. I'm saying it straight away. In closing, I'd like to say something about the coronary. From the first moment we supported the government and said yes, we go strong, we don't have a spread. We did. But these contradictions you've made in the course show that you're very small and you're smaller in the big ones, unfortunately. Listen. Politicians, Prime Minister, Ministers, become doctors. I see politicians and ministers in SKAI, especially in SKAI. What a lust with SKAI, you guys, what a love! I'll never see SKAI, Mera25 will be dark for five centuries, I might see. SYRIZA, right now and now, these poor bastards on SKAI. What about SKAI? Such love? All the ministers have been doing the doctors since this morning. They come out in the morning and they say "you will wear a mask, you will do this, you will breathe less", Ministers of the New Democracy. And when doctors become politicians, things are worse. Because doctors like him became politicians, unfortunately. You use it as a siege ram in our logic. Why am I saying that? There was a conference this weekend on international, doctors, scientists, university professors in Athens, if I'm not mistaken. None of them went to compare with arguments. Why didn't he go? You tell me. Why didn't any of them go? Augustotus, Hoffman, Mangarov, Julio Tarro, Italian, Spaniard, was there, Greek doctors. And none of your light bulbs, big minds, went to talk to them. It didn't go. What about the main? You're making fun of the Greek people. Sunday noon, you're leaking to your websites two hundred forty-three coronary cases in Moria. You leaked it, you left. On Monday, a hundred and seventy-four did it. Do you know why? So we don't get past five hundred. Because if we spend five hundred with the Greeks, in general lockdown goes after the country. The Prime Minister said that before. So I'm telling you, you're moving on a communiqué. You're making mistakes. Because it cannot top nine in a closed space or in an open room, but in order within twenty-five. It can't be done. I mean, it can't be in my neighborhood's Sullivan's Nine, what nine, three, two, but in class it's twenty-five. It can't be done. Of course, I will tell you again that in the midst of yours - "First Lie" again, if I'm not mistaken - there is a title - here's the title - "Dead of a twenty-five-year-old from a coronary". I'm telling you, I was alarmed yesterday. A lot! I was scared. Twenty-five-year-old! What prevented the first lie and the rest of the site that you are feeding well? Firstly, that the twenty-five-year-old was from Bangladesh, but second and foremost - the first is not so much about us - that he died of leukemia. He had a coronary, but he died of leukemia. But they say from a coronary. Underneath, of course, they said it was with leukemia. I mean, that you cultivate terror and fear on purpose, and I will tell you why. Because you are passing a trailer from behind various things that serve your friends and acquaintances. No, you MPs, it's not your fault. Your ministers and the Prime Minister. Business and business are done. And the worst of all do you know what it is? I'll tell you straight away. That in Greek-Turkish is going to make an underground backstage and hamburger deal you won't get. You're not getting any news. And here is the mess of all these poachers. "PRODUCTION" - I am not saying "First Lies", because this is where he is telling the truth - "scanning" the coronary to immigrants in the center of Athens!" Yesterday. Here was Metarakis saying we don't have cases here. Only Greeks had coronary cases, now suddenly it scans. That's the problem. That you don't have a plan, you don't have a proposal and you're cultivating horror. We have earthquakes, pestilences, sores. All wrong in a year they fell together. The coronary was something that none of us expected, anyway, I understand the difficulty. As a matter of fact, we'll also have Nile locusts, the pharaoh, after he says we'll have the Nile's mosquitoes. We will soon have - it says - the reappearance of the Western Nile virus. Fears of doctors, specialists. All right, we'll have pharaoh locusts too. In other words, we have reached a point - frankly I say this - to really wonder - and I will end with it - in which country I live. In the country, friends and friends, demanded by road investors of EUR 80,000,000 compensation, because they had no job. Nice investors, gentlemen, enjoy them! I'm the investor and businessman when my company comes in, I'm not asking someone for the money back. I am not saying 'Give me the money back'. These aren't investors, they're locusts. Because, in other words, the 'Attica road' is not going well, we have to pay EUR 80 000 000 now, as does the 'DRAGON', to give EUR 150,000, why is their work not working well? What kind of investors are they, tell me. That's how he becomes an investor and anyone from here. They don't put money on, they take something, and if work doesn't work well, it doesn't matter, I'll take it from Mitsotakis. Are we serious? Are they investors? Do the highway companies want 800,000 euros? Is that what investment is like? Investment means that the businessman risks profit and loss, not profit, I'm alone, but in damage I put the partner state. Well, that's not how things work. I'm afraid so. I shall close here, Mr President, in the following way. I was very sorry about the brutal attack on Orthodoxy. I also regretted Mr Kumucako with what he did and did, because he turned it backwards, and with neo-democratics who attacked him - unfortunately! - but also with journalists and MPs because he went to communion. You really need to pick up some in New Democracy. The Divine Society is the definition of the faith in Orthodoxy. One may not believe, it is his right, but to enthusiast the Divine Society, to exaggerate the Divine Society, to behave in - frankly - a way toward the faith of the rest, is shameful. What did he do? Aunt Society, Aunt Version. It's a Lord's body and blood. I will not personally allow anyone - I say this directly, because I am not a religious person, but I am a Christian Orthodox - to play with neither the Divine Society nor the Mysteries of the Church. Mr Kumucasakos made a mistake, in your view - because for me it was right what he did - that he went and shared. That's his right! Photography he shouldn't have taken. From there, however, to fall into him by neo-democratic MPs, because a Christian shared, he's gone too far, you guys. It's too much, you guys! That's enough hatred for Orthodoxy. That's enough! You want to play fake left-wing? Do you want to go with the train that the leftists are right? If the left were right, gentlemen, there would be Communism in other countries. There would be a left in other countries too. Don't you understand? It's shutting down the factory. The delegation stayed, people struggle, their right, like some fake left here, who think they're left, but their pocket is right. In Kalisia, Kifisia and Maroussi most of them live. Don't be afraid of them, what fear is he here? Perhaps because the Prime Minister has a centre-left lust, he's gathered a lot of PASOK and a lot of SYRIZA. I won't say names. Sadly, though! Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u29	We continue with the list of speakers. The first two Members of Parliament will speak, then Mr. Zarifopoulos will speak, then two other Members will speak and Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u30	Me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u31	Yes, after two MPs, Mr. Georganta. Mr. Lippes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's legislative initiative faces the problem of polynomialism, a key problem which prevents the functioning of the state and public administration. Aggregated hundreds of provisions are already in place, while at the same time the legislation is enriched with new regulations necessary for the integrated transition to the new digital state. Thus, whether it is a code or a collection of legislation, today's legislation is an extremely useful tool. The digital transformation book records the national digital strategy for the next four years, which is renewed every year on the basis of needs and technological progress. Each Ministry will have a digital governance service to better deal with all issues related to the digital transition. Innovatively, the new personal number imported, a number for each use against the public, which will replace all known to date VAT, AMKA etc. Of course, the process of reliable use is fully guaranteed, as it is not enough for the citizen to call it simply, but there is also a process of verification by public bodies. The Single Digital Gate already plays a central role in the overall project. It operates the portals of users and bodies of the public administration by electronic documents issued through the Single Digital Gate. The safes shall operate with all security guarantees as access to them requires a procedure for authentication. The cornerstone of the whole reform is mandatory electronic communication between public services and natural and legal persons. Natural persons, however, retain the choice between physical or electronic communication with the public. All public entities are obliged to obtain a website that is accessible both from portable devices and from disabled persons. By adopting a Presidential Decree, the posting of "DENMARK" will now have the correct content, in the light of the protection of personal data. Full transparency, however, with respect for the rights and safety of citizens. The General Secretariat of Information Systems shall be responsible for confirming the identity of each citizen and at the same time for implementing interoperability. The interoperability centre has a key role to play, in particular after July 2022, so all public bodies should make available to the centre all the data required for the issuing of certificates, supporting documents and documents. The public acquires a secure way of storing data of all kinds using cloud services. Cloud comes to public services, and another state-owned technology is exploited. Important section is the establishment of the National Procedural Register for the alternative recording of all administrative procedures and data. For each procedure, the supporting documents required and the steps to be taken will be clearly defined. It ceases to be confusing to the benefit of the citizens, since it will no longer have the discretion of any official to require different documents as supporting documents from the citizens. The bill contains arrangements for the development of 5G technology. It is possible to grant free of charge specific sections of radio frequencies, with a maximum period of 12 months to universities, research centres and companies, for pilot development of networks or products 5G. The company "COMMUNICATIONS 5G S.A.", a subsidiary of the superstition, is set up in order to establish the Faistos Fund in turn. The new fund will target investment related to infrastructure 5G. In the new year, the use of fax from the public sector is definitively abolished, so that we can go back to a new digital era in the field of public administration. I will not repeat the multiple benefits that we have in terms of speed and good administration. I would stress what we might forget, that people with disabilities until recently lived a golf when they had to deal with the public administration. Whether or not their own people had to suffer an additional major suffering in almost every transaction with the public. Perhaps this is the biggest in the years of the post-multiple radical reform of the public sector. Many attempts have been made over the years to address the difficult and time-consuming way in which the public operates. In the six months that gov.gr has been in operation, so many steps have been taken ahead of what has not been done for decades. By a simple process all citizens confirm the authenticity of their signature, make their intact prescribing and immediately obtain their temporary driving licence, without any waiting, without travel and without any cost. And all this was done quickly and in the midst of the pandemic. Today we are talking about a universal shift in the way the government operates. The code describes in detail how we will in practice acquire easy, reliable, less costly and more transparent public administration. The culmination of today's bill lies, in my opinion, in the first article establishing the obligation for public bodies to use information and communication technologies in their trade with citizens. This obligation will gradually become self-evident in the consciousness of all public officials and citizens. Today's bill is historic. It completely changes the character of the Greek state and writes a new chapter in the history of the modern Greek state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA, and then, as I said before, the Deputy Minister, Mr Zarifopopoulou, will follow. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, with sincere interest I have opened up to read the bill as we all know very well that digital competition along with climate competition will form the basis for survival but also for the prosperity of the next day, both for our society and for our country, for every citizen, as well as for the world as a whole. One cannot remain a shareholder in a challenge for digital transformation. I'll say it in the first place. Mr Ministers, unfortunately I was disappointed. In fact, I was disappointed at the publications I was reading on digital reform and the digital revolution. I did hear the Prime Minister say that "at least during the quarantine period, in the first few days, we achieved the digital revolution and did miracles at the Ministry", but I think it is a very wrong starting point to start with such great words and so incomplete work. I'll tell you a little bit more specifically. First of all, it is tragic that you attempted to smuggle the code. Without making a code, you tried to present it as a code. Even the Scientific Service of the Parliament and the Council have disproved you. You were forced, you were swung to change it. They've told you since the first day. But here you also violated the provisions of the state of staff, and it is the greatest political deception that you have made a final state. You've done a total mess and I'll prove that. So neither does Law 4622. But at the same time. It is a slander that you are coming back to talk about a Bible that is not there, which you have already done, but no one has ever seen. This Bible is a secret, we must search it like a secret and a holy diaspora. Will you at least tell us in your speech what this Bible is, where it is published and finally see why you change it every few minutes? And what is proven is not only the smuggling of the code and of the Bible, it is also the fact that you had no proposal, you did not have a programme and all you said and electionally was a political fraud, because in the end what you do and in digital is "seeing and doing". Secondly, it is not a new piece of legislation. And that's a big deal. It's nothing new, it's a stitch of old legislation. It is a false statement by the Minister when he submitted the legislative proposals at first, that the majority of the provisions are new. You know, this proves guilt, a minister who only says a proposal at the beginning of the meeting, to cover his back, is definitely false because he has guilt for what he does. What does the bill actually have? Any political production of the New Democracy, any political production of the Ministry's political leadership? It has laws of SYRIZA and older ones. I mention them, to be precise, in the Minutes: they are 3979/2011, 4440/2016, 3851/2010, 4551/2019 and the whole system of electronic document handling together with ‘HUMAN II’, which were initiatives of the previous government and are already being implemented. And what else does it contain? Three Directives: on 2102 of 2016, on 1972 of 2018 and on 1024 of 2019, by the laws applicable and applicable that we had until then. So it's not new either. Third, is it at least one good piece of legislation? No, it's a bad legalization, it's over a hundred ministerial decisions provided. Honestly, if anyone wants to give you the high score for something he will give you the prize for having succeeded in depositing the most unprepared bill with most references to ministerial decisions, which shows a rough, opaque and immature bill. And I sincerely would like to ask you something a little more advanced: do you have the opportunity to present us with the quality assessment report of the legislative procedure referred to in Article 64 of the Staff Regulations, to see at least if you have passed by the former CENE, to see how much of the ministerial decisions you have in it have? Fourthly, it's heavy and dysfunctional. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, who is proud to be great, is wrong. The big one's not good for the bill. The fact that it's big is bad, because you can't figure it out, because the citizen and the agency don't know where to get the answer. In fact, the photocopying of previous bills to show something big is worse than the photocopies of Mrs Diamantopoulou, who she gave in schools. It's a tragic thing to do. He doesn't simplify procedures, harms digital transformation and delays him. Is it transparent? No, unfortunately it's not. He has a great deal of transparency. It does not have the opinion of the Privacy Authority. It is a step backwards in terms of transparency and transparency and in terms of the Personal Number, it is not safe for society and citizens, but for information on contracts, with awards. You haven't made that clear. Is it at least preservative and stationary? Oh, no. You're stalled and ready. For example, you had to have the electronic document handling system ready in May. It's not working. You should have moved on to things that were legislated that we handed over to you. And that, you know, proves Mr. Mitsotakis' insolence and arrogance, to dare say in the middle of a quarantine that you made digital transformation when you delayed the legislature. It is tragic, you know, not even to implement the 2016-2021 digital strategy, because it is not excellence to delay everything, it is political fraud, it is political deception, and I would say that you are driving the country into delay. When you tell the new generation, researchers and scientists that putting bills - photocopy of old laws is excellence, then no one will try for the best. And that is why the New Democracy is to blame, because you are also delaying the excellence and the noble competition and competition of scientists, because you are rewarding Mr. Petsa's only 20 million efforts. Okay, propaganda is good, but you do not go forward with anything about major, substantial reforms. You have no reform section in the bill. On the contrary, as far as the development of new generation networks is concerned, you have a serious problem. You grant the exploitation of public good, but through the Faithful Fund and through the development of products and services you refinance the product, i.e. give the goodwill of the 5G services and the obligations of the network that must be developed, from the back door you return them to the projecter. So he's not doing the whole thing. The Faith Fund will make additional services and application both from profits and gains and gains and the price that will go to the fund 25% will be returned as an indirect or direct benefit to the owner of the service. This is tragic, it's scandal. You give back the money to the man who's gonna put the service and make it a piece of work! And you have no suggestion. What public space will benefit from the 5G? How will schools, social services and municipalities have free services? How will the state benefit from all of this, despite the fact that it grants a public space, where are the frequencies? No innovation, not even the safeguarding of digital democracy, only a benefit for an elite close to your Government. Yes, they took you out and fed the information system very well to keep that alliance. But here there is a serious problem. We need a substantial reform that includes - I will give you an example - the geo-regional data. The information bank of our country, the Digital Charter, was given outside the Government, the Technical Chamber, and is in danger of being given to individuals, instead of putting them into the digital reform, to have the flood risk maps, completed by SYRIZA for the first time in 2018, along with the Forest, together with the Register, together with a illustration of land use and geomorphological data. Because that is how someone faces the floods in Thessaly. This does not go any further, such a reform and I repeat that the flood risk management plans were delivered by the SYRIZA government in February 2018 in FEK. Where have they been exploited in spatial data and digital transformation, so that you have an upgraded civil protection that gives genuinely new information and sees both the trespasses and all the smacks made in Greek countryside? No, you cover all this, you don't put it in digital transformation, and you cancel forest maps. Our proposal is clear: Digital civil protection, digital spatial data within the state and not outside it. Unfortunately - and I am closing, Mr President - Mr Colakis said it was a bad time that the flood in Karditsa was a bad time. The bad moment for Greece is the time for a New Democracy government, but SYRIZA and the progressive alliance are here. Because in the difficult and bad moments, the Left takes the country out of the mud and takes it forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u35	We had said that after Mr. Famello, Mr. Zarifopopoulou would speak. As the President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group came, we will give the floor first to Mr Varoufakis and then to the Minister. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country needed a bandage in terms of Greek public software. We read the bill very carefully. In this we have seen quite positive, negative and unstable things, but they are not decisive and some unacceptable things, which are, of course, permanent. They are not imported from this bill, they simply repeat and reproduce unacceptable situations. On this basis of the equation, therefore, that they are positive enough, the failures are non-determined and the unacceptables are fixed, the MARA25 will vote 'yes' in principle and, of course, not after abomination for the unacceptables that we will be presenting. Before we go to the inadmissibles, let's start with the positives. The modulation, the homogenisation of the digital services of the Ministries, was necessary. Digital communication and the ability it gives the citizens to deal with the public is something that has had to be done for many years now. I would like you to show, ladies and gentlemen of the government, even greater ambition on this issue. If we really manage to codify digital communication and make the Greek public digitally developed enough so that all key information and communication channels are digitised then you should go further in the draft law, such as a public ban to ask citizens and businessmen for any information they own in the public service. Prohibiting town planning from asking you to produce any tax certificate. This ban would be particularly liberating both for the citizen and for the public, because it would in fact block good civil servants from the reproduction of bureaucracy. Now let's go a little bit to the negative. Personal number. It matters. We note that you are putting in a bureaucratic process. Why a new personal number? You could, for example, have an automaticly produced personal number that is - if you want - a coexistence of AMKA and AMKA. At the same time, we see excessive digital bureaucracy. You forecast digital stamps, digital signatures, digital timelines, one level on another level. It would be enough if you hadn't committed yourself to an outdated technology - for us - a digital signature and you could have the certification and verification that you have secured it with the most modern technologies for that, examples of blockchain technologies that we don't see mentioned anywhere in your bill. A third failure, a third negative one that we see as Mera25, and one colleague mentioned before, is your privatization. You cannot, your privatization must enter the bill at any time. Is that possible? You have three computing infrastructures, the General Secretariat of Information Systems, the HDR and the ESI Funds. Why do you also anticipate private infrastructure within the state tax software? No way! Outside the private sector, especially when you are able - and this is clear - to foreign companies to participate in data management. And you know, in digital space, waterproofs are impossible. It is almost impossible to create a waterproof to ensure that sensitive information does not escape the Greek state. Let's go to a fourth point of the negative. I am sure that good system software operators will see to it that there are surplus infrastructure, redundancy or backups, in case there are cyber attacks, there are natural disasters, for the resilience of the Greek public software, but we do not see it in your bill. There should be a legal commitment to such resilience through such excess infrastructures aimed at maximising the resistance of the system to either sabotage or destruction. I have spoken about the positives, I have spoken about the negatives, as you see our crisis as PART25 is that the positives are more important than the negative ones, and that is why we will vote in favour of them in principle. Now I come to the unacceptable. First of all, you know, it's like you want to clean up your house and come the court clerk - the troika - and forbid you from getting into the bedroom, the kitchen, the bathroom and the living room and saying to you: "Good, smash the hallway." What do I mean? Is it possible for the country's tax software to be outside this bill? Is it possible that the Department of Digital Governance, which wants to put a class, does not have access to the most important part of this country's software? Is it possible for AIA to give the tax system where it wants? First alpha, you know what it means. It's not independent. It is independent of you, from us, in this Parliament, from the Greek state and it is entirely dependent on the troika. Is it possible at the moment that there are companies that you don't even know what they are, which are pressing a button, and you, your government, the Greek state, are losing access to tax? This is not just a question of debt-sharing, as we in Mera25 say. It's also a matter of national security. It is not a sovereign state that there is a company in Silicon Valley, which you don't even know who it is, which is able to press through the so-called ASE button and the Ministry of Finance does not have access to the tax data of Greek businessmen, Greek citizens. With the superstition created by SYRIZA, which built in the tragic tradition of TIADED, the silvers of the family called Greece went to the troika. Since you built the AIA or accepted the building, the construction of the so-called Independent Public Income Authority, the tax software, which is our state's traffic system, has left the Ministry of Digital Governance, from the Greek Government, from the Greek state. So today - and I will say this again, as far as Mr Mitsotakis is concerned - we are in debt-government status which is demonstrated by this very limited bill, compared with all the others that we are discussing in this Chamber. We have a regime that does not allow a conscientious Minister who participates in a government aimed at aggregating public software, and forbids him from integrating into this bill, in this comprehensive, cosy software system, the basic digital accounting infrastructure of the public that is tax software. As for you, SYRIZA's companions, I listen to your criticisms in the government. In some of them you are right, but you are shouting inversely according to the weight of what you say. The Troika tied you as much as the Minister. You dare say nothing about AIA or tax software. Say it! I challenge you. Do you agree with Mera25's proposal that the tax software should leave the ADP? You are ready, at least today, for being in the headquarters of the Anti-Population Officer, to commit a break with the Troika, because that will be necessary, so that the Greek public, this government or any government elected by the Greek people, has access to tax software? Or is your radicalism exhausted in asking for credit to you or PASOK 2011 for what happened in the area of digital policy? Let's go to the second unacceptable: "Participation 5G S.A.". Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, how I understand this effort of the Minister. The reasoning is this: The 5G process is beginning and whether 5G really will help the Greek society, the Greek economy, the citizens, the entrepreneurs, tourism, culture, the Minister has said so - and rightly so - by the applications that will be created in this country that will link the new 5G technology to the needs of people, businesses, institutions of local government, culture in that country. Like independent creators producing the ecosystem of Google's applications, Apple's so-called apps are those that finally produce huge value for Google and Apple, but also for Google's and Apple's users, so it's true, to make real use and exploit the new 5G system that we would need here also an ecosystem that connects through applications that would be nice to be created by startups of young people who don't leave abroad, who stay here and offer 5G services to the farmer, the small town, the local theater, users in general. We agree on that, Minister. What's the problem? Debatury, because as you all know, our country as a sovereign country is a debt-free country, Mr Mitsotakis, I know that you like to hear the truth, does not have discretion, power, to decide how this government will spend the money that we will get from auctions to sell the 5G frequencies. You are bound as government and previous Memorandum Governments, every last euro to go to the Troika. Yes or no? And you come and say what? What's the solution you're suggesting? We agreed with the troika and a 15%, 20%, 25% of the money we will collect by selling the 5G frequencies to go to this fund "COMMITMENTS 5G S.A.". At least one piece to fund the creation of this ecosystem. That doesn't sound bad. And 15% to get from the troika to build this ecosystem here in Greece is good. But in order for the troika to allow you, because this is a debt colony, it's not a playground - it laughed, what makes you do? Take the 5G S.A. CONTACTS and join the superstition built by SYRIZA under the command of Siomple. In other words, in an superstition controlled by the troika, in an ultrasound whose profits go to the troika. This is our tragedy. Now, will you at least tell me if any of this money eventually doesn't end up in the troika and it becomes funding for a startup of young people, even some people, who will create some applications for the Greek society, is better than nothing? I will not disagree, despite the fact that it is degrading for the Greek state. But there is a reasonable fear, Minister, here reading the specific provisions of this article in your bill. DEUTSCHE TLECOM, that is to say, 'COSMOTE' or 'VODAFONE', is sure to set up those startups. They may not look forward, but they will draw the share of the lion of funding from these funds themselves, the providers themselves, to produce applications with our own money, with the money of the Greek citizens, the few you will be able to extract from the troika. DEUTSCHE TLECOM and VODAFONE will use this money to produce applications that they will then sell at quite high prices to Greek consumers. Once again, you will allow me to go to both the government and the Civic Opposition. You cannot feel the humiliation of this state of debtlessness, in which you are both a government and a Dedicating Opposition. You cannot have the discretion to use this money from the 5G frequency auctions and the same as you judge it is in the interest of the Greek social economy. And it is not possible for you, colleagues of the SYRIZA, to say now - I have heard your Chief - to'receive the Financial Stability Fund and get it out of the superstition'. You put it in the superstition. You accepted, firstly, that this reproach called the Financial Stability Fund, which abolishes the ability of the Greek State to make use of the shares held by the Greek people's money in the systemic banks, and that your Chief should go out and speak about the secondment of the CFS from the excess that you created and for the control of a systemic bank that is impossible to do if you do not come to a break with the troika that you did not break when you were in government. Finally, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is quite a lot of good in the bill. There are some relatively minor issues compared with positive, failures and missed opportunities. You can look at them again. There are overwhelmingly unacceptable parts such as the lack of any ambition to finally extract from the troika the tax software and use it as an integral part of the Greek state's software and what is done with "5G S.A.". These are overwhelmingly unacceptable. But at least it's not your bill today that intensifies them. It's what SYRIZA brought and which you accept. So by completing and voting against the elephant in the room, which is tax software, and national humiliation with "5G S.A.", we will vote as a responsible "yes" party in principle, even supporting this small band of digital software corridors of the Greek public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u37	We will give the floor now to the Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, Mr Zarifopoulos. Then we'll go with the speaker list. Mr. Georgios, who I had spoken before, will speak later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, may I have the floor to answer Mr Varoufakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u39	No, I've given the floor to Mr. Undersecretary. What do you want to answer? Is there a personal matter coming up?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u40	Because he asked an important question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u41	You have time by night, as the list is long, to exercise political controversy. Here you go, Mr. Zarifopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I will need more time than five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u43	Look, I put up five minutes, but there's gonna be tolerance, because you're both gonna talk to the Secretary and the Minister. Your total time as a ministry is thirty-five minutes. You have five minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, there are a lot of issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u45	It is understandable, but you too must have some time in the speeches. They can't be uncontrollable. But tolerance will exist, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening and discussing the digital transformation of Greece. But how will digital transformation be achieved? What initiatives should we take as a government to finally become a modern state? There are six main pillars on which we need to focus. Firstly, we need to upgrade infrastructure and improve connectivity. Secondly, we must strengthen citizens' digital skills. Thirdly, we need to digitise the services of the state to the citizen, that everyone can at some point trade with the state from their computer and from their smart phone. Fourthly, we must incorporate technology in all sectors of the economy, health, justice, education, tourism and so on. Fifthly, we need to use open anonymous public data that will form the basis for developing new digital solutions for the citizen and business, but also artificial intelligence applications. Sixth, we must support and develop the digital innovation ecosystem in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill significantly promotes the country's digital transformation, precisely because it promotes most of the above pillars. It incorporates in the national network the European Open Data Protection Directive and the Digital Accessibility Directive, establish the personal number, facilitating the transactions of citizens with the State, strengthens the gov.gr, the single digital portal, establishs the digital box of each citizen and each public sector body, regulates electronic seal and signature issues, strengthens the evidence of the electronic documents in justice. But perhaps the most important provision of this bill is that of speeding up the 5G era in our country. 5G is one of the main pillars of the digital reform and is going to significantly upgrade infrastructure in our country. With much higher speeds, more stable connection, better response times and literally unlimited possibilities of simultaneous use of services and devices, 5G will offer possibilities for implementing new advanced digital solutions for the benefit of the citizen and the company. In simple terms, 5G is not just a quicker internet. It is a new state-of-the-art technology that will be fully exploited through the development of innovative high-value applications in the refuelling chain, transport, health, industry and other critical sectors of the Greek economy, so that we can have some time in our country transactions from distance, automated production lines in industry, robotic surgery solutions and others. And it is precisely in this development of innovative applications that we are aiming at establishing the Faith Fund. The Fascist Fund will receive 25% of public revenue from the 5G frequency range auction, in order to support entrepreneurship and innovation in our country, investing exclusively in companies in Greece that are active in research and development of products and services that will use 5G technology. Here you will allow me to speak very briefly about the safety of the 5G because it has been put in this House. In our country, as a whole, 5G will develop on frequencies that are already being used. 700 MHz are used by ERT and DIGEA, 2.1 from 4G and 3G, 3.5 from public rural networks and 26 GHz from fixed wireless access. We use, then, frequencies that we are currently using. The emission limits for electromagnetic radiation remain the same. We follow, like the rest of the countries, the recommendations of the international body. But we are not going to the international limit, we are going to a lower limit, we have legislated in our country lower international boundaries, namely 70% of the international limit, and within the urban fabric we are actually at 60%. In addition to all that, this lower limit, in our country we measure it at the most charged point, we measure it on the web, on the antenna, right there on the roof, which is the most charged point. One understands that as long as it is removed from the antenna, the level of electromagnetic radiation is reduced. Other countries count the limit where they have human activity rather than antennas. And in addition to all that as a country, we may be carrying out most of the controls by any other country, through the Greek Atomic Energy Commission. So it doesn't change much about security issues, it doesn't change anything. We don't go to higher frequencies, and that's something people need to know. Ladies and gentlemen, the development of the fifth generation networks is only one of the projects described in the digital transformation book, established by this bill as the key point of reference of the country's digital strategy. The digital transformation book differs significantly from the SYRIZA – ANEL national digital strategy 2016-2021 as it is not limited to general declarations. It presents the vision, strategic directions and goals, but at the same time defines the implementation of the country's digital transformation strategy. What does that mean? It means that the digital transformation book presents specific information and digital transformation projects, a total of more than three hundred vertically per policy area, health, education, etc., and horizontally across public administration. It is therefore the roadmap and presents the action plan for the digital transformation of Greece in order not to remain in the words, but to proceed with actions. The works presented in the Bible emerged through co-modulation, and this took time. For the first time in the history of Greek public administration, we consulted the Ministries, with the independent authorities, with the academic community, with market operators and the citizens themselves, through collaborative workshops and thus reached the priority of the projects. We have already adapted the digital transformation book to the needs created by the pandemic, without which the project would have already been presented since the beginning of this year. We have once again adapted our design to the new funding data that we have secured from the recovery fund. We can do more projects, as we have additional resources available and these new projects we described and incorporated them. At the same time, however, we proceeded with projects that were important, without expecting the final publication of the Bible, as we did the gov.gr, as we did with the new electronic services and the responsible statement with electronic authorization, with intangible prescribing, with the digital academy of citizens, by calling for the work on the public sector human resource management system, because a speaker was mentioned for a long time earlier. Yeah, we're starting with this public printing. These are plays. Projects that the Greek citizen had embraced. We have more than eight hundred thousand electronically responsible declarations, more than three hundred thousand authorisations, and soon we will reach the four million other prescriptions. Aren't these works? Didn't it happen even though we didn't issue the Bible, knowing it was important? They are obviously works and small and large ones, such as the proclamation of the project for the human resources management system, and we are doing so. With regard to the CUSTOMS, the central system for electronic document management is the one to which you refer follow-up, SYRIZA gentlemen, along with the work of “INJECT” and “ULTRA - FAST BROADBAND”. You do not have many projects that you can talk about, most of them have been swallowed into the audit. But the truth about the CSCE, the central system, is that we have spent too much time doing a project that was general in its description, making it specific in the steps that should be taken and carrying out it. Didn't you know that? We cannot just go with a general project notice if we want to implement something that is right, but it was not properly structured, it was not properly set up to implement. We are talking for a hundred and fifty thousand signatures and for the interconnection of almost a thousand public bodies in the central system. So, organisation, they need instructions all over the public sector, they need certification by an independent auditor, they need approval of the EBRD and we have already started to distribute digital certificates, in these first few months. It is therefore clear that, in essence, through the digital transformation book, we have speeded up the process of implementing the strategy. This is because more than four hundred projects and actions for the digital transformation of the Greek state have actually passed the stages of control of feasibility and feasibility, and we are now very close to the drafting of the technical bulletins, to proceed to tender. Ladies and gentlemen, the visionary English writer, Arthur Clark, once wrote that the stone of society of the future is the use of technology in the daily needs of citizens. For the first time in the history of Greece, technology today is inseparable from personal, consumer, business, labour, government and educational activities. By exploiting technology we are significantly improving our lives, reducing inequalities, saving resources through the most efficient functioning of the state and building a new relationship of trust between the state and the citizens. In a world that constantly changes the only way to keep up with the future is not to travel to tomorrow, it is to bring tomorrow to today, bring the future to now and give it to the citizens, the families, to the new generation. With the bill that is being put before you today, we are putting an end to the stagnation of the past, and we are setting the foundations for the Greek state, which for decades has lost opportunities to develop, to reach the level of the most advanced states in Europe and internationally. So I urge you all and everyone to vote in favour of the bill, to support the national effort to modernise the state, and all together to work hard, consistently and boldly for the transition of Greece to the new digital age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like the floor to put forward a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u48	We can hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u49	I am making a few very small legal interventions. For example, in points of the law we mention 'courts', we add 'courts of the country'. It is a kind of intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u50	Good. He'll share in the parties as well. Mr. Stoltides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill itself, the article itself, and the positions of each party can only be a greater defamation of the development of technology, of the progress of humanity, of the 5G, which is the new major step in telecommunications science and by extension of information technology. Instead of presenting it as the product of work, the research carried out by the working class, its scientists and who can solve with its use all the modern problems more easily and more quickly, you present it as the birth of the monopolistic groups that are active in these sectors and which will do us a favor, since we allow them to dive into the state and European funds, the money of the taxpayers, to allow us to use it to solve the basic problems of our daily lives. Once again, all of you have come together in the reversal of reality, aspiring to convince our people to agree and share in his electronic slaughter, to convince him that better than his life's conditions pass through the collapse of his rights. You are consciously choosing to alter the content of this major technological leap that, in relation to previous progress, is the most critical technological development on which to base strategic sectors of the economy in the next decade, transport, energy, supply chain, media and entertainment, and above all industry, will be seriously affected. You extract something crumbs from the real potential of technology by making use of the important and deliberate delay in modernising state services that really troubles people's strata, incorporate them into digital governance to promote the main axes of anti-grass policy, namely the strategy of business groups or otherwise of their profits more effectively. What do BSE, shipowners, bankers want? Investment income? Electronic tax storm you. Do they want the people's homes without reaction? You electronic auctions. Do they want an activity without respect for the environment? Stop the red tape, you guys. They want to put the insurance funds in hand? Electronic prescribing you. They want to hit the labour movement and strike? E-mail record and electronic votes you. Do they want access to critical and sensitive personal information for any use? Open data directive you. You've taken our people to technological progress. You have, of course, forgotten to tell those you are serving to give their electronic registers so that a collective labour contract can be implemented. Cuvet, however, not a word of all of you, about the other major possibilities that implementation can directly solve fundamental popular problems when all branches of production can now be connected in real time by synchronising production with the real needs of the people, without waste of time and resources, when everyone can work with fewer working hours and norms that will eliminate the accidents, when primary health can solve all issues in the prevention and monitoring of the population with the latest scientific data, when training can be linked to the needs of industry and the student access of all the different groups of passengers, when farmers can support themselves against weather phenomena and ensure maximum and quality of their production, when connections between public transport can simplify their operation by meeting the needs of transporting all the different groups of passengers, where there are tools that can solve all the housing problem on the basis of workplace, sanitation, etc. These, ladies and gentlemen, are all here, there are and can be implemented today. They were created by the workers. But you're swinging about it. Looking for issues of controversy among you to hide that you have all led them into the pockets of those who produce nothing. You're talking about the 5G like we got here jumping into the void, like there weren't any earlier technological developments, 4G, 3G. The automation of a large part of production in each industry, the application of robotics has brought any of this? Better days for those who produce them? Nothing. Greater unemployment, greater stress at work, expensive products and services, the removal of thousands of self-employed people. Did technological developments bring better days to workers in the telecommunications and information companies themselves in Greece or around the world? Only the slaughter of rights, thousands of redundancies by extortion, the cracking of biological limits within a minimum of time, hunger wages. For example, teleworking at the hands of employers helps to increase the intensity of work and make use of the whole day of the labour force by dismantling staff, social, family time, saves costs for infrastructures which are borne by the worker, renounces health and safety at work. We had an incident. A twenty-seven-year-old young worker leaving her last breath in front of the keyboard during teleworking in a monopoly group in our country. Where it can solve issues no talk about its use. Employers blackmail vulnerable groups to go to work at risk for their lives, others blackmail by transfer to drag workers on resignation, that is, the same ones who have built up the possibility of teleworking. They are dark, of course, we must say, with the class trade union movement that does not leave them in a green cry and does not let employers hide behind their responsibilities. In the media instead of enriching the fleets, hiring the workers, increasing the routes to save anyone from your choice to flood the country with a coronary for the pockets of the big hotel owners and the great transporters, you reload the backs of the workers with changes in working hours and rolling hours. It seems that your digital tools, the digital charts shown by the routes, do not help you much, because we are living in another reality compared to the objective reality in public transport. What you want to put in hand for the whole 24/7 is the labor force because only there can work, evolution, wealth. In the hands of business profit any progress, any development of technology turns into a nightmare for the workers and the populace, and you, those who rule and everyone else, ensure that this is guaranteed by laws. It is such that the mismatch of the ejection of science and technology toward the wild regression of the quality of life of the workers who will arrive to say "help, my Mary, not to find us 6G", which is coming anyway. You have, masters of business groups, you and all sorts of your governments, loaded a lot of G into the backs of our people. But he'll get rid of it, you know, you'll be sure. Monopoly groups, government and all urban parties, you are fingers of the same palm that with the fist you are trying to keep the ejection of technological evolution within the narrow limits of the interests of a handful of parasites in the economy. But it's like you want to keep inside this tight fist the fusion of the person itself. Each one understands very easily what the result will be. The same will be the result when the means of production and those that create them will no longer fit into the rotten walls of this development path that you defend. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Kegeroglu. Mrs. Apatzidis, Mr. Hadjivassiliou, Mr. Zebplis, will be followed and we will see later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the international reality as it is formed after the impact of the new risks requires political reflection at national level too. The new social-democratic proposal we have put forward is no longer simply aimed at progress, but at anthropocentric progress with environmentally-friendly growth and leading to social well-being. synchronisation with the fourth industrial revolution is an option and an instrument at the same time. The pandemic has made clear and imperative the need to activate digital services, the acceleration of the state's digital organisation, and here it is that the government on many of these fronts does not get above the base. You are advertising the technological development that exists in any other way regardless of us, but you are not talking about the policy deficit and the use of this technology. For distance work you have not shaped the necessary institutional framework, rules and safeguards for employment rights and obligations for months. Eight hours of work was done at a distance of ten and twelve hours. You are present today with an amendment to legislate for two weeks. He can't move like this, seeing and doing. We need a vision of how and at tomorrow's time, but in the next period we will be able to have social processes that focus on human beings. For tele-education, the ultimate craving. For teletraining you managed to slander the institution and frame hundreds of lifelong learning providers, because you chose to play with two, three companies. But let's see things in a row. Greece, with the PASOK government, had taken serious initiatives in the context of a wider research and technology project. Even since 1981 with the establishment of the EKEC Crete HERE research and penetration in general of new technologies into economic and social life has entered a road. Spin-off and start-up companies, FORTHNET is just one example. The use of new technologies for governance, quality of life was made as a priority and in 2009: open governance, transparency, transparency, accountability, e-prescription and a series of interventions to house the state. The company "Information Society" played an important role in the use of resources, but this model now appears to have closed its cycle. Although the crisis had to work as a speeding-up to the rapid integration of new technologies everywhere, this became fragmentary in some areas. The simple example is e-commerce with the banks that were imposed by closure, despite the fact that the technological potential existed. There was a plan for funding through the ESRB. The previous government with the Ministry of Digital Policy rather than exploiting the funding of the NSRF 2013-2020 to support policies of the other Ministries by penetrating new technologies to them launched a new pattern with a concentration of policies from the other Ministries in the Ministry of Digital Policy. So we saw the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture to pass to the Ministry of Digital Policy, the responsibility of the Ministry of Development, that famous announcement of thirty - one million - we did not learn about its development. Today's government has come and because it suits it obviously goes on to the previous one's mistress. Instead, as we believe, the Ministry of Digital Policy will take digital technology everywhere to the Ministries, to support governance and, in particular, the implementation of their policies promotes exactly the opposite, that is, it gathers powers and powers from other ministries, from other bodies in the logic of creating a closed system of power and resource management together. You are going to the same line as Mr Papapas, for example, in the cultural policy of the "ECOME" company which exercises the competence of the Ministry of Culture, and you are also bringing an amendment today to recruitment outside the IACC. You're setting up a 5G holding company. Technology and development is necessary, but you do not substantiate that it is the best solution, since no feasibility study has been carried out with different scenarios. You join the Supreme Court in continuing with SYRIZA's policy of handing over the national property to the lenders, who, of course, today came through the rapporteur completely hypocritically to fight the superstition and against this choice. The proposal for a law, however, which we tabled, was not accepted either by the New Democracy Government or by SYRIZA before. It is not being strengthened and exploited by the Development Bank, but it is being held down with ten, fifteen executives with no real role. You say that you're removing the fax and you could say that you're also removing the wired phone, because no, as another communication ward. But you are not telling us, Minister, to us or to the citizens, because at the same time as the legalisation of the e-mail as essentially the only means of communication between the public and the public, you do not legislate and the public should respond by e-mail and in a shorter time than when we have written communication. Thirty days do they need paper communication? How much do you want by e-mail? One day, two, three, five, ten? Fifteen. But say it, legislate it. But that's not it. In relation to the Procedural Register, will you create another register or will you unify and make use of the registers already in operation? Many of the objectives announced by the Prime Minister or you in relation to services, for example, are left over from what was provided through the project "ERMIS". The Prime Minister said fifty - two, one hundred twenty - six electronic services are already provided. Public organisational programmes, government digitisation rescheduled. And I say again, because during our period of governance, there were reactions from ministers and, in particular, people who come to be mutated today, in order to go ahead with this thing. The general public cannot be organised on the basis of a new digital organisational chart. It should be understood here that we are proposing - and I will say it very simply - the creation of a forward-looking single map of public administration, which, apart from what we are seeing today in the 'DIAGYY', there will also be the spatial distribution of services, their organisational programmes, the categories and the number of staff that serves them and, above all, their targeting and the budget. In other words, it will end up with what responsibilities and what procedure each employee is serving. There is this standard in America, created on Obama, of course. I think it's time to happen. In closing, instead of the closed system of power that you are creating and in which the control of things and money management is prominent, we would propose to see, on a brave basis, a leap that is needed to cover both the lost time and the lost opportunities, so that we can use not the technology that has already been overcome since previous years, but the technology that is already in place in practice, in life and in the economy, to synchronise with the fourth industrial revolution and not just follow developments. We'll never get in front of it like that. We such initiatives will support them, but articles and procedures like that of the U.S. government or the other procedures introduced by this bill will not actually take us back and leave huge gaps, centralisation and closed power systems to be voted on. Our rapporteur has been placed in detail, and our parliamentary representative will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u54	Ms Maria Apatzides, from Mera25, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented health crisis in the coronary and measures to tackle pandemic at global level have led us to a new historic period. In particular in our country, after Lockdown, the gradual lifting of measures to limit the movement of citizens and the repatriations of the government, there was an urgent need to adapt to a new reality. The reopening of public services was accompanied by specific Directives and health protocols. The need to limit the spread of the coronary accelerated the digitisation processes of the state. This draft law on the Code of Digital Governance is moving in this direction. The bill has clearly positive aspects. The consolidation of legislation into a piece of legislation, together with the incorporation of European directives into the Greek legal system, is one of them. The general objective of the bill is desirable, namely the digital governance and the exploitation of the possibilities offered by digital applications for the organisation of the public and better service of the citizen. At the same time, however, we are unable to highlight points of criticism regarding the oligopoies and the problems of the bill. First of all, the draft law is a concentration and combination of previous laws, which are being voted again today with new provisions. In addition, only in Article 107 there are more than fifty ministerial decisions. The fact of secondary legislation, along with the determination of the combination and writing of earlier laws, is extremely problematic. In view of the fact that this preliminary draft is a necessary complement to the law on the final state, it is not surprising that we are faced with another sign of bad government legislation. The bill is presented as a truly brave step in the area of digital governance, but it is far from being a digitisation of the entire public and of the citizen's relationship with it, which would be a real revolution. In addition, there is no trial period of parallel physical presence and digital application, despite the fact that the explanatory statement highlights the optionality of the applications. The bill, i.e. it is neither a real revolution of digitisation of the public as a whole with the necessary trial period nor just an optional one. It recommends something in between, which will allow me to point out that it combines the negative elements of the two cases I have just described. In other words, we find a combination of rush and steam at the same time. Despite the objective of intensifying digital governance, i.e. reducing and oversimplifying procedures, we also see a number of bureaucratic predictions, such as a number of different electronic seals and time markings for the verification of documents, where a single and reliable system, for example, could exist with blockchain technology. A further number is added for the citizen, the Personal Number, next to AMKA, AMG and ID card number. The Personal Number will coexist for a considerable period with those already in force. It could well result in this new unique identification number for each citizen from the existing ones, without further duplication of procedures and afflicting citizens. The prediction of the possibility of using private computing infrastructures also finds us opposing vertically. Initially, beyond the question of protecting the citizens' personal data, there is a direct matter of national security and technological sovereignty. This is because if the vital functions of public parts depend on the use of private computing structures, then potentially the "switcher" for these structures will not be in the hands of the Greek state, but on the hands of individuals, who will obviously be under the control of the state, executive power and popular sovereignty. This is clearly an extremely important issue. We hope that the government will hear the opposite voices, even last minute. A number of other parts of the bill show that rather the logic of the memoranda has become a second one, even when this does not result from any commitment. In particular, Article 73 of the Digital Governance Code provides for the establishment of the company ‘COMMERCIALS 5G S.A.’. The company is a subsidiary of the "Greek Company of Participation and Property S.A.", the well known to us all. The sole purpose of the company is to establish and manage the Faith Fund. However, the fund will not really be under the control of the Greek state, although it will effectively manage resources belonging to society as public goods. The fact that we are actually giving up another key element is a disgrace, but also a question, in relation to such a choice, especially when it is in no way inevitable. The profits from resources belonging to society by definition are not private property, but must be repaid to society as a whole. That is common sense for us in Mera25. The fact that this common sense is disproved, even in a bill of digital governance, by the generation-born neoliberalism of our government is truly opposed. However, the fact remains that digital governance, as well as the implementation of the relevant legislation, is a purpose of its own value, especially at a time of increasing digital capabilities, which is unthinkable not to be placed in the service of the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u56	The next speaker is Mr Hatzhivalio Anastasios from New Democracy. Then Mr Zempilis will be followed, and then Mr Zempilis, the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Georgantas. Would you like to take the floor later, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u57	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u58	So we will continue from the list of speakers. Whenever you think you're ready, tell us. Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if a few years ago we heard someone talking about on-line validation of the original signature, or about an electronic record of a child in kindergarten, then we would say that this is a science fiction. And, however, the gov.gr, the single digital portal of public administration, within just six months of its activation, increased electronic services to citizens from five hundred one to six hundred fourteen. Every day, thousands of Greeks are served by the comfort of their home or workplace. So we are talking today about the end of the trouble of guise. Millions of documents are issued and used in private transactions with the State. The excellent work of the Ministry of Digital Governance has brought significant results and today's bill comes to validate the turn of the Greek state, at last, in the digital era. This is necessary, as our country must have a secure framework for network development and commercial communications, a framework that facilitates technology tomorrow. This bill gathers and updates the rules applicable to digital activities in our country. At the same time, Greece is preparing and equiping for the revolution of the period and is addressing an open invitation to all investors and entrepreneurship, traditional and neonates, to come here and invest in the field of networks and IT. Very important, however, are the forecasts for improving the functioning of the Greek State. So today we support a modern state, not an enemy, but an ally of the citizen, a state that facilitates everyday life and creates a relationship of trust with public administration. And on this course we are firm and unbelievable. We are investing in public change, improvement of its services, simple procedures. Let us not forget the changes made by Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself as Minister for Administrative Reform with the well-known law, Law No.4250, with a multitude of administrative simplifications. We are talking about things that SYRIZA has not gone further for four and a half years. Today, for example, the abolition of fax in communication with the public is a prerequisite for technological development. Redesigning procedures so that citizens can trade electronically allows them to earn time and money. In all this, we must also add the great savings for the public sector to materials and, above all, to working hours. The practical result improves the daily lives of the citizens and particularly favours those with movement problems. Also, the speed of handling cases is increased, time is saved and paper consumption is reduced, and the chances of illegal transactions and corruption in the public sector are reduced. Furthermore, myKEPlive confirms the above objectives. On this occasion I would also like to thank, from the Step of the House, the Ministry's political leadership for the inclusion of the Municipality of Serres in this pilot project, as well as the inclusion of eleven settlements of our county in the subsidised areas, so that we have a television signal in the villages that have been deprived of. Once again, then, the government proves that it does not leave any citizen behind. So today, ladies and gentlemen, the gov.gr portal is being strengthened, electronic communication is compulsory with the public, the security of electronic transactions is being strengthened, the accessibility of people with disabilities is being supported. The aim is for everyone to enjoy high quality services at competitive prices. And the improvement of technology, but also healthy competition, can lead to prices below and eventually the citizen will have a cheaper phone and also a cheaper internet. I would also like to refer specifically to the 5G network technology. To say things with their name, because there are various conspiracy theories in and out of the country, what does the passage mean in the new 5G era? It means speeds of receiving data on our devices up to a thousand times as much. And that's not only useful for phone communication, social media and our entertainment. It will be useful for example in medical science, where a surgeon will be able to use an acoustic virtual reality to operate accurately a patient in another corner of the world thousands of miles away. And that's very important. In addition, the very important initiatives of the bill today are to make profits from the tender for the development of the 5G network for the development of new technologies and information technology companies. The government shows once again that it supports technologies in practice. Greece is a country that has the potential thanks to its scientific potential to attract state-of-the-art tech companies. And if we achieve this, then the benefit to society and the economy will be multiple. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a difficult time today, we have a difficult health crisis in front of us. But we don't stay with our hands crossed. We are creating the conditions for a better future. We take advantage of the crisis and become better. The current situation requires greater use of technology. The government is now organising the framework and setting the foundations for the new digital age. Overcoming the crisis, we are building a better future for all Greeks. The country is moving forward with confidence, which is why we too are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you to Mr. Hatzidis and to the economy in time. The next speaker is Mr Zebplis Athanasios from New Democracy. After Mr. Zempilis, Mr. Davakis, Mrs. Makri and Mr. Papaliou will follow. I'm announcing a trillion of speakers and the rest of them will follow. Here, Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the concentration and inclusion of a single text of diffuse provisions undoubtedly serves the principle of good legislation, as it makes the rules of law understandable and appropriate. In fact, the need is made when it comes to digital governance, which is aimed at facilitating citizens. In this case, we have a piece of legislation that effectively attempts to bring about digital convergence with the European Union. In particular, reforms are introduced to improve services to citizens and businesses, such as electronic handling of documents, electronic payments, as well as the electronic form of seals, signatures and protocols, interventions that simplify time-consuming and multi-teaching procedures, such as the National Register of Procedures, the Single Digital Portal, digital lockers and the Personal Number, which forms the basis for the restructuring of the public sector. It is obvious that building digital transformation further strengthens innovation, as is the demand for additional digital services in the wider public and private sectors. At the same time, the framework for the development of the digital ecosystem of the fifth generation networks is being established by using innovative investment tools. And the super-networks may change our lives spectacularly, but on the other hand there are today regions of the island and mainland, such as in Evia, my special homeland, which lack a television signal, areas for which sufficient provision is made under Article 95 of this Treaty. Of course, like all the legislations, particularly those which provide for the adoption of several implementing decrees, the present will be tested in time and, indeed, in an extremely unfavourable environment, in a health crisis that the accelerating ministers of today have successfully managed to turn it into an opportunity, by exploiting pandemic as an accelerator of major changes. So, with a gov.gr flagship and a deposit of this rich work that has been internationally recognized, this draft law vulnerablely and founded aspires to reverse the extremely adverse position in which our country was and with this disappointing given fact it sounds like a tragic irony that the Civic Antipolitics urges us to revive its own work in the use and adoption of digital technology. And the reasonable question is, what is it that Greece has recently been in the ranking of all the European Union's digital indicators? To envy that in the twenty-eight Member States - our country has been permanently joining Bulgaria and Romania in all digital evaluations for 2019? And let us not have any illusions, despite the laborious effort to recover the lost ground, our country will not suddenly be found from a urgoon at the top, no matter how far it cut. A long-term and systematic technological effort is needed. However, the issue is mainly a political one, it is the political forces that, in a spirit of consensus and conscientiousness, ensure commitment and undisturbed continuity in a large national objective, because this is not just a matter of the digital transformation of the public, but of a great vision that ultimately aims to reconstruct, decentralise and rebuild the state. Because it is not a question of digitising Greek bureaucracy, turning the paper ball into an electronic mess. It is important to substantially reduce the administrative burdens of a counterproductive and non-transparent public that is undermining citizens and undermining development efforts. And for that to happen, we must cultivate a completely different culture. Estonia's success was not so much a discharge from antiquated technology as the elimination of an outdated culture, an antiquated way of thinking. Of course, it also had the advantage that it was built digitally immediately after its independence was recovered in 1991. In Greece, on the contrary, there is a long and strong bureaucratic tradition that has perpetuated the administration until the medal. Of course, it is abrupt to the plight, the philanthropy, the maliciousness and the other well-known and inherent weaknesses of the public. Of course, we must not forget that in the past there have also been modernist efforts, but they have been individual and fragmentary, unable to change the big picture. So I think that in order to start a new start and improve citizens' digital skills, we should invest in the younger generations. After all, in Estonia the digital revolution has started from education. Unfortunately, we are very back in this area as well, as in the annual report for 2019 of the European Union on the monitoring of education in the Member States. In particular, this flagship publication notes that schools in Greece which receive strong support for digital education are less than at all levels in relation to the European average. Thus, high broadband has only 11% of primary school schools, 15% of high school schools and 19% of the country's high school schools. And in that direction we must strengthen infrastructure for a digital school, a school that is safe and at the same time open to learning and cooperation. As regards the major infrastructure issue, it is important that the new digital book, with a four-year horizon, will not be limited to general principles and directions, but will specify the required projects per Ministry, such as in this case for the Ministry of Education, which will be part of a holistic digital strategy. Of course, this effort will also contribute to the preparation of a capable mechanism for the effective use of financial instruments, with particular emphasis on the absorption of the resources of the Recovery Fund, which is a great opportunity to continue and deepen the digital state in the context of the country's reform and reconstruction for modern Greece, which will claim a distinct place on the map of the fourth industrial revolution. And this Greece will bear the seal, the digital seal, to the accuracy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u62	Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. "We're improving our lives," said the Deputy Minister, Mr. Zarifopopoulou, a short while ago. I, too, believe that this bill, ladies and gentlemen, can be a milestone in the reform effort of this government. Digital transformation is actually a one-way road. It is the reform with the greatest imprint in both the economy and the daily life of the Greek citizen. It will improve the speed and reduce the cost of the public, citizens will no longer be troubled at last in the tails and lose their personal or productive time. The main part of this bill is, as we have all seen so far, the personal number that the citizens will use exclusively for all their transactions with the public. What does each citizen's daily lives mean by a personal number? It means, for example, that the citizen is relieved of the need to inform the operators and services with which he is traded, such as banks or taxis, of any change due to theft or loss in his personal documents. In other words, it consolidates both the number of identity as well as the ATM based on the ATM in a common number with certain digits. The personal number comes to add the electronic version and movement of documents through the gov.gr digital portal as another essential relief for citizens. Acceleration of fibre optic installation processes is also a crucial step towards the expansion of the digital economy throughout the territory. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that it will take months to put a visual fibre into his home or his business, which reminds us, at the same time, of the gas issue. The Faith Fund for the financing of new start-ups by part of the 5G frequency auction revenues is not just an innovative idea at a time when the sources of liquidity are extremely limited and the traditional funding tools are characterised by an extremely sceptical attitude towards newly-born enterprises. This fund, I believe, will become a fundamental instrument in the area of innovation. On this point, of course, I would like us to have the opinion of the Minister on the future operation of the 5G networks. We know that there is an issue internationally, as these networks are being developed in many countries involving companies with a strong public character - the Far East, etc. - i.e. companies that will always operate on the basis of the rules of the free market, or possibly even transparency, which will not always function. What measures does the Ministry of Digital Policy plan to take on a risk of this? I would now like to refer to another issue that arises in connection with the implementation of the digital establishment plan in the public sector. We have all received an email, signed by Mr. Dionyssis Rigopoulou, engineer specializing in computerisation and former Inspector for Public Administration. With Mr Rigopoulou, ladies and gentlemen, we have been working together again several years ago. And I am glad that the former Minister, Mrs Gerovas, has been here, with whom we had exchanged a parliamentary debate on the issue of digital printing and public management, with which the Minister had then committed himself. Mr. Riggopoulos is a man who has been struggling for years on this issue and has studied it as few as possible. I believe that our country has to win by listening to people like him and by studying their proposals and their concerns. I believe that the digital printing of the public, the digital organogram in other words, is an important issue to do with facilitating the whole public charter. Unfortunately, as things stand today, there is still another opportunity to make significant progress in this area. In particular, Article 81 of this Legislation incorporates an earlier provision of Article 8 of the “DENMARK” Act, 3861/2010, an article which has never been applied in practice and which is currently characterised as technologically outdated. Instead, I ask you, Minister, Mr. Secretaries, from the political leadership, to see the amendment that I will also present to you in the Minutes, which has been proposed since 2016 by the Open Technology Agency and the International Transparency of Greece to incorporate it into the bill. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise, like many colleagues, from across the Greek territory, all the wings, that have mentioned - which has to do with adding new areas to our country's list of areas which have so far been outside television coverage. Parts which did not have television coverage in the Laconia Prefecture are included - like other villages throughout the Greek territory - in this programme, so that this move, this important move, is something very positive both for the information of the citizens, and for the entertainment of residents who are away from the urban centres. At the same time, the terms and conditions of the former Minister, Mr Papapas, where the amount of aid is now from EUR 110 to EUR 150, as well as extending the guarantee threshold during the cover. I believe that, with these interventions and at the present pace of the extension of the programme, the Minister will soon become a commitment to universal coverage of all the 'white' areas so far by the Greek territory. As I said before, it is obvious that the bill we hold in our hands and will soon be the law of the state, is a station in the reform effort of the Mitsotakis Government. I am pleased that the bill is broadly accepted by the opposition parties and I believe that this is yet another proof of a coherent and efficient work carried out at the Ministry of Digital Policy and which has to do in itself - as I said at the beginning of my speech, borrowing the expression of the Secretary-General - in the way that our life will be better and the economy of our time, of our free time. I therefore believe that it should - I repeat - be accepted universally by all the wings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. We will give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsi, to put it on the table with a general number of 470 and a special 7. You have the floor, Minister. How long will it take? That's three, four minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u65	I will have to read the amendment - it is very short - and if there are questions, I am at the disposal of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u66	Well, that's next, if there's any questions. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Labour has tabled and voted for a specific amendment because of the emergency needs, the urgent needs of the protection of public health against COVID -19. In particular, workers from private sector employers are subject to a system of distance work, in cases where their work can be provided by this system, 40% of the total number of these workers. In order to ensure that these undertakings - employers - are required within 24 hours of the publication of this Act in the Official Journal of the Government to prejudge the information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs the work of 40% of their employees for whom this measure can be applied and the total period of time prescribed in the present form by filling in Form 4.1 Statement of Restoration Special Objection Form referred to in Article 4(2) of the Legislation Act 11-320 of Article 2 of the Act of Accession validated by Article 2 of Law No 4682/2020. In all cases of breach of the obligation of the preceding subparagraph, a fine of EUR 3 000 shall be imposed on the undertaking - an employer following an inspection by the Labour Inspectorate of the Ministry of Labour. Secondly, the working hours of employees in enterprises - private sector employers are required and adjusted at the beginning and end of their working hours in such a way that, every half hour and within two hours, workers arrive and leave with a view to starting and ending their working hours respectively. For the period of application of this provision, the employer's obligation to register in the ERGAN information system of the Ministry of Labour any change in the working time or organization of working hours shall be suspended. In any case, the provisions of e.g.88/1999 continue to apply, as well as the obligation of the employer to state a prior notification of the time of overworking and legal overtime before being carried out in the "ERGAN" system of the Ministry of Labour. This adjustment of workers' working hours shall not change the type of contract of employment of such workers. This provision shall include at the end and an authorised Ministerial Decision on the basis of which the Ministers for Labour, Economic and Health may change the geographical limits of the intervention of that provision and its time-limit for its application. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u68	All right, thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Ragossi, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u71	No question. A little placement to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u72	Mr Raguss has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, if the pandemic had come out last week last week, last month, one could feel the responsibility it has towards the Greek people and public health to exhaust all kinds of leniency and goodwill in order to consent to such types of governance. But the pandemic didn't come yesterday, it didn't come yesterday, it didn't even come last month. He has been engaging in humanity and our society for too many months. So this continuing government euphemism, in fact, does not allow us, despite our good will, which we have shown over the entire period, to consent to such legislative initiatives. They all seem to be logical, but on the issues of labour, which is certain that Mr Mitsotakis' government has seen pandemic from the very first moment as an opportunity to steadfastly attack these working rights, one cannot tolerate such sorts of surprise functions and such sorts of sudden government functions. Yes, it makes sense to take steps to prevent further harm, which we will have and will happen to us because of governmental manipulations and oligopoly. But the government cannot think that it can continue to go on working particularly on this issue, in this way, the deliberately fragmented, deliberately fragmented, in order to actually change the country's working map and put against very important rights and frameworks that have to govern the working situation in our country so that it does not become a jungle and does not become a jungle as a result of pandemic. Well, yes, remote working is one of the health measures that we need to take, but is that possible when a government has such a long time at its disposal not to deal with a coordinate, organised, in an overall way, but to try to bring these types of amendments and, indeed, unrelated bills? Obviously, and we won't stop anything that protects public health. On the other hand, however, we will not accept the continuation of this process and this government function.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u74	Is there any other of the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives who would like to ask the Minister on the basis of the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u76	You have the floor, Mr Buga.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u77	I would just like the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman to clarify what he disagrees with. For we see Members of the SYRIZA, the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative, shattering in this Chamber, taking the floor and collapsing the government, not on the substance of the legislation proposed, but on the procedure to be followed. And while one was expecting to hear an objection from SYRIZA, today Mr Ragus appeared to be unable to clarify why he and his party protested in the House. Is he protesting on the substance of the arrangements or complaining, because the government is reflexing at the appropriate time, in time, bringing an amendment to create an environment of safety in order to create alternative forms of work provision, to protect both workers and the social and labour relations? I have not heard any objection to the substance of the arrangements proposed by the Minister for Labour. On the contrary, he has spoken in general and vaguely that the government of Parliament is abstract, that is to say, fragmented, common words, which do not correspond to the substance of the regulations. The Minister, and I too, are causing Mr Ragosi and the SYRIZA Members to answer us if they disagree on the substance of the arrangements proposed by the government. Will they vote for them or will they vote against them? What if they vote against them, for what reason, for the procedure or for the substance? These are the critical questions, Mr President, which we are making and which SYRIZA should be responsible for answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u78	Mr Raguss has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u79	I think that if there was little responsibility on the part of the government majority, the reaction of its parliamentary representative would not be that. Because it is clear, and I shall put forward in the Minutes, Mr President, that we have repeatedly made public what could and should be the basic principles of a new, comprehensive legislative framework for this new situation in the field of teleworking, which is teleworking, and which there is no doubt that it will, from now on, employ Greek society and humanity as a whole. What should not, however, be legitimized is not to take a global framework, which would be what? They would be workers' protection measures, whether or not they are going to work remotely within their homes, for example, with or without a camera, if they are to be implemented - they have been made public on several occasions - the introduced teleworking allowance, if they also respect and how the working hours are done. But, when you don't have the worker in your mind, you don't have the many, but you have how you turn into an opportunity for the few and the chosen pandemics, then not only do you bring such a fragmentary amendment instead of a comprehensive bill, Mr Buga, which, when it comes, will be discussed in detail and together, and then you will, of course, defend the legitimate reaction of an anti-politicism that has in mind the workers, the powers of work, the private and public officials, that is, the many and not the few.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u82	The Minister has the floor. Please for two minutes because it's a long list of speakers for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u83	I shall be very brief, Mr President. I have to say to what Mr Ragus said, namely a few things. Firstly, I welcome Mr Ragosi's modest speech which is welcome. This is how we place ourselves, Mr Ragosi, because, in contrast to you three days ago, I had the opportunity to present another extraordinary amendment in the context of the extension of the Prime Minister's announcement to Thessaloniki - I think you should remember it and make your self-criticism as a party - on which we brought the emergency measure to be passed by the Greek Parliament because of the pandemic, because of the wounds that the recession has put on the labour market because of the pandemic, that is, the hundreds of thousands of jobs. Furthermore, because you are also an island and you understand it with the same sensitivity as I have toward the islands - Cycladics, both - we have brought the repeal of the ENPIA to small islands of our country, to remote areas of our country, to the Aegean and to the party you represent did not vote for, without saying why it did not vote for it, so for the opposition yacht. That is how you will allow me to describe your position, in the sense that you have not actually entered, because you do not vote on this provision, because it is essentially an emergency measure which we take on the need that is shaped precisely because of the pandemic, to safeguard the health of the people in the private sector. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] On the other issue that you are opening to me on an institutional framework, because that is what you have allowed it to mean for teleworking, I agree with you. There is no clear and concrete framework of labour law in the area of labour law in our country. I have said both publicly and in writing many times that teleworking or distance work - more appropriate is this definition - is here to stay. It is a challenge and we will legislate it, the Ministry of Labour, the great bill of labour reform, which will come in October. The proposals you make in the parliamentary debate during the debate and during the debate in this House are welcome, but this does not alter the nature of the extraordinary event. And the institutional framework for teleworking would take such exceptional measures. I therefore call on the opposition, at least on major issues of work that are to protect private workers, to show the appropriate seriousness and responsibility because it is for the good of our workers and all of us at the end of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u84	We continue the list of speakers. Mrs Matutes from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I should like to express my condolences to the families who are mourning their own lives and my grief for those who have suffered great damage to their property and a remark, although both the Minister and our parliamentary representative have responded adequately, the regulation brought by Mr Brutsi does not seem reasonable, reasonable and not fragmentary, is imperative and urgent. The Minister is doing good and regulates in the bill we are discussing today something that needs to be arranged immediately and because, Mr Ragosisi, the pandemic is not new, this time has enabled all ministries, and the Ministry of Labour, to demonstrate adequacy, speed and effectiveness. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months Greek citizens have been pleasantly surprised and also extremely impressed by the abrupt ageing of digital governance, as Professor Spinellis properly described in an article at "Kathemerini" on 26 April 2020. All Greek citizens, without exceptions, took advantage of the newly developed digital applications for our communication with the public at the time of the outbreak of the health crisis. I will start with the use of the special number 13033 on the exit permit during the incarceration created within a 24-hour period, and the Vice-President of the Commission, Mrs Westager, herself, described as a 'first-time European good practice'. I will continue with intangible prescribing, the dynamics of electronic issuing responsible declarations and authorisations, but also with the procedural simplification of the birth declaration and the automatic credit of the allowance. The first extremely important digital steps in the public sector were delayed over thirty years and are now being implemented thanks to the vision of Mr.Mitsotakis, who had already committed itself since 2018 to courageous interventions in the digital transformation of Greece, as he had rightly seen that the current juncture is perhaps the last opportunity for the development of digital governance, but also thanks to you, Ministers, who had the knowledge and courage, weighing all the variables and extinct imperfections and omissions in their implementation, to implement arrangements that offer Greek citizens, especially young people, the new digital age that they deserve. You dared to decide by breaking eggs and trusting the excellent scientific staffing potential of your newly created Ministry, completing processes of operating software in the shortest time, software that meets citizens' requirements. And only political myopia would allow someone, as I heard a colleague before, to characterise the bill as a rough one, or even a big one, when he comes from an area that, although he has been in power, did little to do. The digital transformation you are attempting and you will successfully complete means upgrading the digital capabilities of all citizens, integrating technology, exploiting public open data, support for new-born businesses and attracting new investors. The Prime Minister and you, Ministers, have drawn up, from the outset, a responsible digital strategy that will, with credibility and effectiveness, shield us for tomorrow, improve the daily lives of the citizen, stimulate the economy and create new jobs. With at least eight priority innovative projects, such as digital signatures and stamps, the original staff number for each citizen, the single electronic system for the start of operations, the electronic health file, the integrated system for justice, the single ticket for tourist sites, the "ERMS" and the central organogram for digital administration, with proposals such as the flexible form of awarding projects, the overall support of an ecosystem with a grid of tax incentives, the real investment in the data economy and with other modern projects, the next generation projects that will be included in the book of digital transformation passes through ideas and theoretical studies in the implementation of specific actions, creating a new, original world for Greek citizens. The digital strategy rightly includes the concentration of the existing framework of digital governance, so that everyone knows clearly what is happening and what is not. The legislative initiative collects in a single text all relevant legislative provisions to facilitate citizens, businesses and the State itself, while at the same time it does not hesitate to go ahead with improvements, amendments and additions to existing provisions. The new current electronic communications regulation goes on to introduce new safer regulations for state operation, to incorporate EU directives into less than forecast and to regulate time-lags so that our country is worthy of European standards that it can go hand in hand with global technological developments. However, provisions such as the framework for the development of the fifth generation of telecommunications networks in our country at high speeds and unlimited possibilities of simultaneous use of services and devices do not cease to be a national innovation. The same important thing is the establishment of the Faith Special Fund, the first such type in Europe, which will receive 25% of public revenue from the tender for the use of 5G radio frequencies and which aims at investing money in companies active in research and development of innovative products and services in infrastructures 5G. Ladies and gentlemen, in a world that technologically evolves at a rapid pace, but which strongly accepts the challenges at international level, there is only one way to significantly improve the quality of our lives and to alleviate inequalities, to be actively involved in shaping our digital future. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law because it lays the foundations for a more serious, stronger and safer strengthening of the efficiency of the state and indeed in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u86	Mr Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA, and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Georgantas, immediately thereafter. Mr. Papaliou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there can generally be no disagreement and there is no disagreement on a draft law on the application of new technologies to digitise public functions, so that digitisation can find practical application to public and public trades. Following the substantiated observations of the Parliamentary Scientific Service and SYRIZA's strong arguments, the Government was forced to change the title of the bill so that it would not be false and misleading. Unfortunately, under the rule of the New Democracy, the parliament was, for the most part, faced with a process of malnutrition, which in this case reached the limits of unconstitutionalism. This is all about communication. In this regard, for the New Democracy's governance to appear as a starting point for digital transformation, which is completely false. Ladies and gentlemen, what the public administration needs and which digital technology can offer is a fundamental simplification of procedures. Simplification of procedures between public services and contact with the citizen's trade with administration. This is not the case with the "final" state of the New Democracy, the basis on which it is based and the digital transformation will be supported, since this "final" state of the Prime Minister is a centralized and opaque form and system. This promotes the digitisation of bureaucracy and not the simplification of bureaucratic procedures and, therefore, facilitating the citizen in his everyday life. Even the issue of a personal number for each citizen, with whom it will be in contact with the public, is not a simplification, since it is added to the other identification numbers accompanying it, such as AMKA and AMD, which does not replace them, since they are not abolished, at least at the same time. The present draft law contains many provisions regulating the operating framework of the electronic document handling system. Part of these provisions are essentially the study and guidelines for the implementation of the central electronic document handling system, promoted by SYRIZA government. At the points of the draft law, which regulates the issues of the ‘DENMARK’ programme, the new provisions are almost entirely a copy of the same provisions that are being repealed. The fact is that the "DENMARK" programme is an important project in the direction of democratisation and social control of public administration. It needs to be updated, through an improvement and modernisation plan, in order to meet the requirements. The bill only provides for the placement as coordinator of the “DENMARKING” programme, the General Secretariat of Digital Governance and Simplification of Procedures, and in particular through the advanced staff number, to which I referred earlier, the company of alteration of the programme, in order to conceal decisions that conceal the dispersion of public money, pretext for the protection of personal data. In Article 86, ladies and gentlemen, it is stated that the provision of digital public services by public bodies is done using ‘government clouds’. In this respect, there is no opinion of the Privacy Authority. This data constitutes capital that generates goodwill and therefore exploitable. That is why they must be given absolute protection. There is therefore a concern about how it is ensured that data are not leaked and who is responsible for whether the private company taking over the Clouds project is leaking. With regard to the provisions concerning the exploitation of the revenues from the tendering of the public frequency range for the development of the networks of a new generation of 5G, the bill provides for the establishment of an anonymous holding company, the "Participating Participation Company 5G S.A.", as a subsidiary of the "Greek Participation and Property Company" in the so-called superstition. The question first posed is why this company operates as a subsidiary of the U.S., after the country's exit from the memoranda in August 2018. From the revenues of the public frequency range auction, 25% of the resources will be transferred to the Faith Mutual Capital Fund, which will manage it, in order to use these resources from the public for its participation in private investment for the development of research, innovation, high-skilled and high-tech 5G applications. The remaining 75% will go through the surplus fund to repay the public debt, although - I repeat - after the country's exit from the Memorandums in August 2018 there is no commitment and, in any case, there is the possibility of using resources for the public interest through the Greek Development Bank. Finally, it leaves the possibility of an agreement open to practically 25% of the spectrum auction revenues that the Faith Fund will invest to return to the three mobile operators themselves, i.e. the bidders themselves. In other words, there is a risk that the leverage of funds for the development of a research and innovation ecosystem for 5G applications will be just a smokescreen. That is why we call for the companies and investments to be more clearly described, thereby ensuring that the idea is implemented in a positive direction and, above all, in order to defend the public interest. Finally, I want to refer to the amendment from the Ministry of Labour. It does not specify, even if this is a last-minute amendment, as our Parliamentary representative has said, what the framework within which teleworking will be applied, even at this limited time, and especially who will control it so as to ensure the working conditions and rights of workers. Of course, I have to say that it'shorts' us, the announcement of a framework for teleworking, within the framework of the large draft law of the Ministry of Labour announced by the Government, because the New Democracy Government has given examinations and has shown its attitude since the beginning of its administration, by the anti-government arrangements it has introduced and voted against. Finally, I should like to make two final remarks on overworking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u88	No, Mr. Papaliou, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u89	These are two telegraphic remarks, Mr President, on overworking. Overworking should not prejudice the employment status of the worker, because it only alters the way work is provided. A comprehensive institutional framework for implementation and control is needed to protect pay and labour rights. Indicatively, the application of the teleworking allowance already introduced for the need to cover the costs of work at home and the right to disconnect, so that neither the employer nor the worker can receive "inconveniences" - mail etc. - and nonetheless fails to respond to them outside working hours. It is, of course, imperative that every hour of work at home be paid, that there should be an electronic recording of working time at the "ERGANI" and that the SEA's access to data for inspection. Thank you, Mr President, and above all your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance, Mr. Georgantas, has the floor for ten minutes, followed by the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Villardos. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizen who listens to us today from his home understands the central idea that, in fact, the political forces seem to be united in the matter of the country's digital transformation. It seems, in other words, that they really want to serve the common objective, which is a national bet, precisely because it relates to and is related to the course of our country in the future. But then it would be a little confused, because, based on SYRIZA's speeches, we have not yet reached out to what is simplification, what is ultimately the best of our fellow citizens' lives, what steps must be taken and whether what is being followed is wrong or not. I think we are unfair to many of us the overall effort that has been made over the years and today we are creating a new starting point in this. I understand that what is of interest to the Greek citizen and I think we will all agree on this is that he wants faster and more quality service, first of all, from the public administration. This means that he does not want to be faced with bureaucracy, he wants a clean framework, a clean field either to work, either to attempt, to invest, or simply to deal with a simple case. So when colleagues come today and effectively despise this effort that has been made these months, they actually conflict with reality, as the Greek people experience. They were completed yesterday six months of operation of gov.gr. Are there any results that have been announced and which in themselves demonstrate that for the first time in the country there has been such a serious, such a coordinated effort to achieve what? To enable our fellow citizen to be served by his home, by his work, from abroad through a computer, through his mobile phone. That was not simple to do. Not everyone else did it, that government did it. Why did this government do it? Because he really has prioritised digital transformation, but he didn't just give him a single and monologue. He serves him at all levels. First of all, with the creation of the Ministry which, for the first time, has these legislative tools, which are essential to the great issue of interoperability, which we have mentioned and said so, is the major obstacle throughout this effort. Moreover, most of the issues of interoperability have been solved with concrete steps, with specific legislative initiatives. The results are catalytic, six million thousand fellow citizens visited the gov.gr. When we started, there were five hundred electronically scattered services in the Greek public sector - and we gathered them in this single digital portal, so people can know where they are going to head. We have added more and at the moment six hundred fourteen services are being offered from there. We have seven hundred eighty-one thousand responsible declarations issued electronically. We have three hundred and fifty-eight thousand mandates. It is a great pleasure and satisfaction - I said it again from this Step - to take you by your fellow citizen, who lives abroad, to tell you how proud he feels as a Greek, who can in the afternoon after his work get into his computer and make a responsible statement, authorisation and send it by e-mail to the service he wishes, to carry out a case when he had to lose work to go to the consulate in his area. We have four hundred and thirty - one thousand certificates which were issued in terms of registration and censorship. We have five hundred and sixty-six thousand of our fellow citizens registered to be able to prescribe intact and have already issued three million seven hundred eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-seven thousand of these recipes. We have six hundred eighty teleconferences made by myKeplive, a new service that will serve our fellow citizens very much who should not have their physical presence in the JEPs. By video call each one can now go from home, from work, by closing an appointment to serve, without having to go naturally to the guise. So you understand how important this initiative is especially at this time. Of course, we have eighty-three thousand entries in kindergarten, and we have eighty-five thousand temporary driving licences, which were also issued electronically and of course, we also have the digital academy, which helps our fellow citizens greatly to strengthen their digital skills. That didn't happen automatically. It preceded work on them and then came the digital platform that is currently serving. At the same time, however, we have also made many other simplifications. And parallel to that. They became facilitations to birth, became simplifications to loss, became simplifications to the registration and civic events. Now there will be simplifications in the transfer of cars. A lot of steps we take every day. You know, at the end of the day, no matter what labels each will put into this intervention - I hear this majesty from some people in the way they hear, you digitize bureaucracy - what interests the Greek citizen? To be able from home, in a clean context that will exist, to be addressed and served by his computer. That's what he's interested in. How we're gonna do it or how someone sees what we sometimes don't manage, a little matters to him. Can it be served quickly? Can it be served reliably and not confused? And right there is the new intervention made by this piece of legislation. We have Article 90. For the first time - and I will agree on this - as has been mentioned by colleagues and by SYRIZA - a record of the data had to be made, to see what we have as Greek public administration. Are there any services currently registered anywhere provided by the Greek state to Greek citizens? Oh, no. If you don't record them, if you don't model them, if you don't number them, if you don't ID them, how will you then simplify them? How are you going to limit the administrative burdens that are required in each of them? How are you going to remove intermediate procedures? For the first time, therefore, Article 90 of this law provides for such a procedure. We register in the National Procedural Register, all these administrative procedures are recorded, but with very specific and targeted forecasts. In other words, the legislative framework on which this procedure is based will be described, precisely because, whenever there is an amendment to the regulatory framework, there will be an update of all the provisions. Thereafter, the steps to be taken by the Greek citizen, the supporting documents he must bear, the mistakes he must bear - whether he must produce paradoxically - and the services to which he must go. This will be visible at the same time by both the citizen and the public minister who is called upon to deal with this case. You understand how important it is that you address a public official to deal with a particular case, which is identified and numbered, in which steps will be accurately described and how easy it will be for both the civil servant and the citizen to complete this case, precisely because it cannot be misinterpreted by anyone, nor by the official who considers that a further document is needed, nor by the citizen who considers that he can, with a less justifiable document, deal with his case. That's not gonna happen in the unknown future, it's starting now. He's doing a great deal of effort, a great effort is being made to the Ministry. There is a group working on it, and I must say that our Secretary-General, Leonidas Christopoulos, has made a great contribution to this effort and we will have in this register the first procedures to be included. The first ones are the ones already described in the gov.gr and there will be a provision at two levels for the first time: the provision at the level of update, which is the responsibility of the Ministry and the level of implementation, which is the responsibility of each public minister who is called upon to deal with a case, that he will not be entitled to deviate from the described procedure. This will give a breath to conscientious civil servants, who often because of evil and pluralism, which is there, find it difficult to interpret a process and feel the stress and responsibility of any choice and understand how difficult it is for them. We show these employees the way they should follow. We are showing the citizen exactly the direction that should be followed. And all this in order to feel the security and trust that each citizen must have with regard to public administration. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a new starting point. We welcome and welcome the fact that the anti-population parties, most of them, even with their objections, even with some formalities which I think are unfair to all this effort, support this piece of legislation in principle. It is a piece of legislation - legacy for the Greek people, including everything that has been done so far - has been legislated in this Chamber and everything that we add. Because I will repeat what I have started: the digital transformation of our country, a prerequisite for the development of our country, is a national bet, we are all concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Villardos has the floor for eight minutes, followed by Mr. Akiupis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur for the Greek Solution, its President, has also been mentioned in detail in the bill, so there is no need to repeat ourselves. We will only highlight the issue of the 5G for public health. It's very important and we shouldn't underestimate it. Many scientists say it and control it too many states, as the President of the Greek Solution said. So Greece must not be a laboratory again. Perhaps there should be an informative body at the Ministry of Health, which could inform citizens about electromagnetic radiation. It'd be something he'd offer the country. Now we are going to start by the fact that Greece's main problems are four: the economy, education, migration and nationalities. The latter two are inseparable from each other. As far as the economy is concerned, our differences with the New Democracy are enormous since we can both believe in the free market, but we support the mixed economy with a social face, while the New Democracy is liberalism. In simple terms, our position is that public benefit, strategies and monopolistic businesses such as water and energy, airports and ports, as well as the networks, must belong to the public sector, while everyone else in the private sector. On the other hand, the New Democracy believes - in theory - in the smallest country, which has the effect of unleashing everything with its own will, even if it was not imposed by the lenders. In fact, it has become an extreme neoliberal structure of the memoranda with left-wing ends, since on the one hand it privatizes state-owned enterprises while on the other it subsidizes everyone, while on the other it retains the great taxes, and on the other it is constantly hiring the public instead of shrinking it. If Greece does not reduce the income tax to at least 15%, so that it is competitive with the surrounding countries, our economy will never be developed. With regard to the imminent Left - on the contrary, because its political positions seem to be falsified, especially after the acceptance of the neoliberal line of the third memorandum from the whole of the Troika, New Democracy, the Change Movement, the PASOK, and SYRIZA - which differentiates us is the following: we, although we support the central planning of the economy, especially in the primary sector, do not do so with the aim of subsidisation policy, but with the aim of creating wealth. We believe that the Left and Right are obsolete concepts, especially as regards national issues. One example of our difference here is: instead of supporting the hotels 'Green Britain' and 'King George', which are here to us, as businesses, you are giving a poverty benefit of EUR 534 to their staff. In addition, many other worthwhile hotels serving our future quality tourist model - quality - are a great difference - certainly they should be saved, something that Germany already has with the 1.3 trillion euros that it has committed to combating the pandemic - the budgetary measures were only 4.1 billion in the eight-month period, that is, little - and Germany is strengthening companies like 'TUI'. Who is TUI? The former ‘PREUSSAG’, which changed name and industry when it was accused of producing and using poisonous chemicals in Iraq. That's how they change industry and name. By continuing to say that we believe in changing our economic model away from the monoculture of tourism, in supporting the primary sector of processing, defence industry and high technology. We have a detailed programme for its achievement, before we are even elected to the House, and we regard Israel as a model. As far as the European Union is concerned, we believe that there would be no problem if it were not converted into German, as would the Eurozone if Germany had not undermined it since its start in 2000. However, the risks of both being dissolved are very large, first of all from Italy and then from France. In relation to immigration, we believe in the closed borders, in the transport of illegal immigrants to uninhabited islands, but with human infrastructure, for which we have tabled a detailed analysis, and also in the push back. Furthermore, respect for all international agreements concerning refugees - everyone, without any difference - but also in reviewing the Dublin Agreement, which is at the expense of the host countries, such as Greece. However, away from us racism, racialism, xenophobia or anything else. On the contrary, New Democracy believes in closed structures on the islands and inland, where it has, moreover, transferred a large number of illegal immigrants, thus creating dangerous cells for defence and security. We know, of course, that many of the illegal immigrants are unhappy people from poor countries, who are used mainly as follows, with great economic benefits for illegal traffickers, NGOs and all others: firstly, as a weapon of invasion by the Turkish regime in the framework of the hybrid war that is taking place against us, where in these unfortunate masses they are 'nature' unfortunately fanatical Islamic warriors, for whom we cannot of course know who they are and when they are coming. Secondly, as a means of imposing multicultural societies, with a view to exploiting the national state by the elites - supporters of globalisation, on the one hand, so that societies can be more easily controlled and the majority of people are robbed without reaction, on the other hand, in order to ensure cheap labour, along with the squeeze on the wages of the domestic population. Especially with regard to the latter, it is ruthless that it is based on this kind of immigration from left parties or on the outline left because of their obsolete internationalism, since it is at the expense of the livelihood of the workers they support. Unfortunately, they do not understand that this is how they are associated with neoliberal parties as well as with supporters of uncontrolled Soras globalization. Because now the reception of illegal immigrants is seen as a sign of culture, one must see what is happening in other countries, such as the Netherlands, Belgium or Sweden, where they have created huge problems with the rapid rise in crime, the war of gangs, the increase in rape, the restricted zones and so on. However, the main difference of this kind of immigration in relation to the past is the fact that they are human beings, the vast majority of men, who do not want to be assimilated by the societies that are hosting them but to assimilate them, that is to say, by building them up, as they have officially said in Sweden in recent years. Finally, with regard to national laws we believe in what is defined by international law, but knowing that there is no body that can impose it. So we are basically on our own, as far as the protection of our national sovereignty is concerned, which we consider to be an inalienable task.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Villardo, you must be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u95	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. We would never grant Macedonia's name - I would never say - against economic exchanges, with which Germany has blackmailed the then-government of illusions. We would like to close with the Prime Minister's statements in Thessaloniki concerning bankruptcy, the 5G of the current draft law, the sale of the electricity network, the TENDEE, and the HRAKLIS programme. Unfortunately, however, the President is not giving us time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u96	The President holds the time that the Rules of Procedure say. Secondly, I would like to point out that your speech today - you will assess it - had nothing to do with the bill. That's your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u97	My right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u98	All right, let's go down. Mr. Vickypis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes, followed by Mrs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to my suggestion on today's bill, you will allow me to comment briefly on the extreme weather phenomena that have taken place in the past few days which have caused disastrous consequences for my country's economy and society, as in other regions of Greece. Zakynthos is a place that this year suffered one hit after another. The pandemic and the consequences of it literally kneeled down on the economy of our island and as if that were not enough, our island was beaten by the well-known Mediterranean cyclone in all of us. The government's response has once again been immediate and effective. Already on Saturday, the Ministry of Finance, following the mandate of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, announced a nine-mile package that will in fact significantly alleviate those affected by extreme weather events. At the same time, Civil Protection has played a decisive role in dealing with any possible danger from bad weather. At the same time, I believe it is vital that the damage recording procedures left behind by the cyclone, as well as the compensation procedures, be quickly initiated so that my fellow citizens can rebuild their roofs and ensure the necessary for the next few months. Ladies and gentlemen, the specific draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance is much more than yet a pre-election commitment of the New Democracy, which, as so many others have now done. Today's bill is a necessary, important and substantial reform, which brings about radical changes in the lives of Greek citizens. Through the individual arrangements of this draft law, it seeks to substantially facilitate, improve and accelerate procedures in the public sector, as well as public transactions with the State. Fixed issues that have been unresolved for decades now have been settled. It ends citizens' suffering, bureaucracy and endless waiting in the tails of the JEPs, to the EPC, to the comments, to the CEPR, and ends waiting for the pension or allowance to be issued. Ladies and gentlemen, the specific arrangements of the draft law under discussion are coming to complement another part of the cycle of major changes, in the area of new technologies that have been made since the start of the governance of the New Democracy to date. For example, in this year of governance, the European emergency call number has been put in place, in 112, the digitisation of the birth statement, intact prescribing, the introduction of the national simplification framework, the creation of the central portal of the Greek State, the gov.gr mentioned before, to which have so far been six hundred thirteen services, the possibility of an electronic responsible authorisation statement, while no one can ignore the decisive role that the Ministry of Digital Governance has played in managing the crisis of the new coronary. In this context, a number of projects were implemented to ensure public health and public service. The operation of 13033 during Lockdown, the Greek Government's information website for COVID -19 and the supply and solidarity platform, the creation of travel.gov.gr and the PLF, the teleconferencing platform of public bodies and the promotion of high quality cultural content through electronic platforms during the lockdown. Overall, it is important to stress that, through the provisions of this bill, the efficiency of the state is increasing while respect for the Greek taxpayer's money is being established. Digital services reduce inequalities. There is now equal access to state services for all, for all, for the worker, for the parent, for the disabled person, for the migrant Greeks. Furthermore, statehood is being strengthened, an extremely important issue, especially now that we face multiple challenges. In conclusion, this draft law forms the necessary legislative framework to achieve a more serious, stronger and safer state for a pillar whose legitimacy, transparency, direct and inclusive accessibility, good administration and efficiency will be. We therefore welcome this draft law and we are sure that the benefits resulting from this digital reform will be crucial both for the state itself and for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u100	Mrs Chapter of New Democracy has the floor and Mr Ypsilantis will be followed by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft law, we are taking another step towards the state's digital transformation and digital governance. With new technologies going well into the daily lives of all of us, the state can and must follow. So today we are creating the institutional conditions for the electronic communication and transaction of citizens and businesses with public bodies. We reorganise the internal functions and procedures of public sector bodies on information and communication technologies. With the first part of this draft law, we establish the book of digital transformation. This will be the benchmark for the country's digital strategy. This will set out the basic principles, framework and guidelines for digital transformation in order to integrate the recording of all relevant processes and actions. Each citizen has a unique personal number, a many-year-old request, a number that will not be altered and deactivated by death. The personal number will be used in all civil contacts with the public in order to verify his identity in trade. It will be indicated in the new identity, it will have 12 digits, nine of which will be the current LNG. We regulate detailed issues of electronic public and private documents to organise public bodies on the basis of digital standards. We explicitly stipulate that electronic public documents are fully assimilated to their validity to the corresponding public documents bearing a handwritten signature. The same applies to electronic documents where an authorised electronic signature or stamp is used. We are creating a specific process of movement of documents both within the institution itself and between bodies for the use of a centralised document management system. We define ways of authenticating users for access to services through the single digital portal of public administration, gov.gr, as well as digital lockers in the single digital portal of public administration for both users and public bodies. Electronic communication in the public is now becoming compulsory. Of course, in specific cases, they will continue to have the possibility of non-electronic means of communication. We are for the first time regulating issues of electronic seals and signatures integrated with clarity. We want a digital society that is functional and that will be the necessary tools. We want to put an end to the pointless stay of citizens in queues to get documents from one service to another. Public bodies will communicate with each other in order to have access to these documents. In other words, we replace the use of printed documents by electronic means to put an end to the phenomenon of any service asking for different documents for the same procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also issues dealt with in relation to white areas, namely those outside television coverage. We are broadening the television 'white areas'. Millions, Perama, Delvinaki, Kalipaki, Psilokastro, Koutselios are some of the Ioannina regions that will benefit and join this program. We add villages to every county that will now be able to receive TV coverage. We are simplifying the procedure for the citizens of these regions. We're more than double the number of areas. Of the four hundred, we have exceeded nine hundred, and the guarantee of the equipment concerned is extended to eight years from the two to the present day. We cover the citizens for the entire year of the programme. With the incorporation of the European directive on European electronic communications, clear and uniform rules are laid down by modernising the regulatory framework, with a view to promoting investment in very high capacity networks, strengthening competition and the market for electronic communications. We broaden the definition of their services in order to ensure consumer protection and ensure accessibility to the Internet for people with disabilities. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of New Democracy's governance, we have been using new technologies to achieve significant changes. The specific arrangements of the draft law we are debating today follow up these changes. Within one year, the State has reorganised itself in the area of digital services provided. It's been 12 months, what hasn't happened for years. And all these arrangements are intended to change the daily lives of citizens, resulting in the state's digital operation directly and visiblely, both for the state itself and for the citizens. We're putting an end to bureaucracy. We restore citizens' relations with the public. We are improving the efficiency of the state. We make it more functional, more flexible, modern, with respect above all for the Greek taxpayer's money with digital services that reduce inequalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, too. Mr Ypsilantis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance puts our country in a truly modernised orbit, since it enables it through its systematic digital organisation to acquire modern tools and structures that will not only put it in those countries where digital governance becomes the norm, but also because through it you are fighting to a great extent the bureaucracy and every negative one it has produced. With two particularly important instruments of digital governance and electronic communications, Directives 12/2016 and 1024/2019 are incorporated into Greek legislation and, in the other, Directive 2018/72 and other relevant provisions in accordance with the standards of sound legislation. The State is led to its necessary digital transformation and digital technology is promoted in the public sector. And all this is happening at a time when the Greek citizen, thanks to the actions of the Greek Government and the Ministry of Digital Governance, has gained digital access to a wide range of digital services that put a definitive end to the suffering and movements of citizens. The digital governance provisions deal with issues that have been seeking to settle for many years. It is consolidated in a single text all the legislations of 10 years and updated provisions where necessary and necessary. As I said before, directives on open data and digital access are being incorporated into our national law. Reforms and updates a hundred and twenty-five scattered devices. The chapter on the governance system establishes the digital transformation book as the key benchmark for the country's digital strategy. The e-government service shall be established in each Ministry. Personnel Number shall be established as a number of mandatory verifications of the identity of natural persons in their transactions with public sector bodies. The issuing of electronic documents and their electronic handling are regulated and electronic communication in the public sector is effectively guaranteed and regulated. As the subsidiary of the Hellenic Company for Participation and Property, the creation of the public limited liability company 5G is recommended under Article 93, with a 20-year duration, the purpose of which is to manage the Faistos Fund, which will aim at investing in research and development of 5G products and services. Its legal form is modern, it belongs to the mutual venture capital sector, which gives an impetus different to that of the public. Repeal of the fax to the public. The provisions on electronic communications are modernised by the Greek regulatory framework and clear and uniform rules are laid down to promote investments in very high capacity networks, to stimulate competition and to develop the electronic communications market and to protect end-users - consumers so that they can enjoy high quality connectivity and increased selection of innovative digital services at competitive prices. The operation of the ‘DENMARK’ programme is on a different basis in order to harmonise the principle of transparency with the principle of data minimisation. The improvement of infrastructure by providing and operating cloud computing services, digital governance registers and the development of the digital ecosystem 5G, as I analysed, through innovative investment tools, complement those actions that put Greece on the digitally advanced states map. This effort, without exaggeration, is a national overrun, whether we understand it or not. It is also regrettable that people who have invested in governing our country, politically deceiving Greek citizens, have been treating themselves with carelessness and desecration even in human life, have imposed on them on them on a regular basis unconstitutional and nationally harmful, have for more than sixty years subjugated the national property, for acts punished in the 2019 elections by our people, to appear today as the honorers of everything. The place, gentlemen, needs constructive opposition, indeed not sad hypocrites and negative developments, progress and tangible truths. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today we are laying the foundations and that in the course of the process much can still be decided and implemented in the area of digital governance and secure electronic communication in the public sector. In my statement that I am voting for the bill under discussion, I wish to congratulate the Ministry of Digital Governance's political leadership, but also all those who have worked to create this deeply pleasant reality for the place. Minister, I will close here asking for technology to be created in large cities and start experimentally from Rhodes, so that the Greek people may become familiar with the new conditions of technology, but we can also offer them the opportunities that can become acquainted not only with the public and the work that is done clearly with the public, but also with the other needs of technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u104	Mrs Sukoulis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to place ourselves on a bill of key importance, because it is about resolving, perhaps, the most important time-consuming problem of the Greek state. The creation of a functioning state, with efficient administrative action for the benefit of both society and the economy, has been and partly the achilles heel of our historic course, with the known and in some cases tragic results in the social, economic and political life of the place. Today we are being sincerely and justly called upon to recognise and assume political responsibility for a problem that lies at the heart of economic and social lags which the country is facing in a number of areas of state responsibility. I believe that, on the occasion of tabling this bill in plenary and before we talk about it in this bill, which several Members have already done, it is worth pointing to the strategic dimension of this bill. Even if citizens' attention today - and rightly so - is focused on pandemic and Turkish provocation, we must highlight the country's digital transformation, the biggest social and economic bet for the next 20 years. Perhaps for the first time we have a golden opportunity to win this bet, and that is because the political will of our Prime Minister and government, the know-how of the government's political leaders, but also the social maturity of the citizens, creates an appropriate framework for achieving this national objective. We can do it where we really have failed to date. And that's not happening randomly. We have realised that the technological development offered to us by the digital transformation tool can open the door to us to fight rooted pathogens for decades in the administration of the state. Because, I do not think anyone will argue that the administrative function of the state was characterised and characterised by incredible bureaucratic turbulence, which decisively restrict the development process. Because I do not think anyone would argue that the administrative function of the state was, and possibly, characterised by the creation of small and large outbreaks of corruption, because of the multiple decision-making centres, as well as because of the problematic interaction of state and citizen. Because I do not think anyone will argue that the quality of services offered, which in several cases resembles third world countries, is inversely proportional to costs, which are very often compared to the cost of the more developed countries. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be realistic. State modernisation cannot be achieved without digital transformation. But why would digital capabilities succeed where every other effort failed to have an effective state as a multiplier of social and economic prosperity? Because the nature of the digital capabilities offered to us by technological development is such that we can serve a number of strategic objectives when there is a corresponding political will. A number of strategic objectives, imposed by global economic and technological developments in the area of digital governance and the digital market. Citizens, businesses will have an ally, a state that operates administratively, transparently, defending fairness, will have an ally state, which will offer them services at speed, with validity, securely, saving resources and productive forces. A state that has created a stable and fair framework so that its citizens and businesses can find indivisible, in all their activities, whether social or economic. A state that follows and guides the country and its citizens to the challenges of a rapid progression in the future. All of this requires a well-defined strategy and action roadmap, clean to all participants, so that their degree of adaptation to the new digital reality is smooth and beneficial, inclusive. That is what this draft law is doing today. It sets out this specific legislative framework, which will govern digital transformation, so that not only can we define our strategy in time, but also button it in the funding that comes from the recovery fund, so that we can speed up its timely implementation. We adopt all modern and key digital transformation tools in a number of areas, such as digital services, since gov.gr is strengthened, such as identification as weakening the security of electronic transactions, such as the electronic communications code that enhances investment in the development of very high capacity networks and creating a regulatory framework for radio spectrum licensing. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Digital Governance has dared to move on to a necessary step for Greek society and for the Greek economy. He dared, with an ally of technology, to face the most unresolved and chronic problem for the Greek state and he dared because he intelligently understood that this is not a choice among many. This is a one-way road, a one-way road that the country has, and if it does not follow it, it will be constantly falling short. Ladies and gentlemen, the digital transformation of the state is perhaps the most decisive factor in our social and economic development, which will judge whether we remain as a country and as citizens sticking to the paths of the past or whether we follow the requirements of the future, a future that we either like or do not like will be digital. And I do not think anyone will argue that this function touches the qualitative dimension of the institutional pillars of the state, of democracy itself. And that is the reality and the work carried out by the relevant ministry team is excellent and we must all actively contribute to the achievement of their objectives. Now's the time. Tomorrow it'll be late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. Mrs Gerovali has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, today our country is in the middle of multiple crises and because of government failure. Economics, national, public health and, of course, the natural disasters of the Mediterranean cyclone's tragic accountability last week. Our thoughts of course these days are close to our fellow citizens. It is not the time to seek responsibilities while the wounded measure their wounds and there are still enclaved people. But, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Government, what are the responsibilities for the heavy price that the country has paid for in the last fourteen months when you have been running from natural disasters? What happens with the responsibilities of at least twenty-two dead in total, more than a hundred injured in natural disasters in Halkidiki in July 2019, in November 2019, in Evia last August. Look, I'm not making the judge, but you're a government for fourteen months. You are driving us firmly, if not that you have already led us to a security and civil protection crisis. Consider what you've done and tell us. You are also considering the statements by your ministers, the current Prime Minister on our day and not to remember the statements made by a Mr Cololakis who said that Matty will be evacuated in 30 minutes, but the disasters now says it was a bad time. And you knew from Friday that "Jan" is coming. What measures did you take? You announced that day that you will build regional civil protection coordination centres with PPPs in 2022. That was the measure announced. And until then we will be at the mercy of weather attacks, as you called them. "Aggressions" are your favorite feature in problems. 112, which we have handed over to the final stage of the tests, operates when and when, shortly before or shortly after the disasters, where disasters or elsewhere are being committed and not necessary for flooding, because as the government said in 112 also sometimes provokes panic. Until then, Civil Protection is at God's mercy by applauding in the midst of a pandemic Minister sacred, while other ministers are society. Obviously the ministers indicate what the citizens should think about where the solution is. To God's mercy. God help me. That's what they tell us. I'm coming to the bill. If I could put a title, I would say: 'Reformal incapacity in the local reform ministry'. I am analyzed by the rapporteur of the New Democracy who said dithyrammically: "The end of the black Greek reality now begins the great revolution". The rapporteur did not, of course, listen to the Minister just before the Minister who had had had to admit that the famous code, this salvage and revolutionary, was not a code. For of course, ladies and gentlemen, after the slap and the Scientific Service of the Parliament, you have had to admit that the code is not a code under the Constitution. Of course, I imagine you do not have enough poster, special advisers, excellent people and experience to be able to legislate properly. Of course, the result was to break down the record, to drag you into a proper piece of legislation, even though our rapporteur, Mr Katsis, and our parliamentary representative Mr Ragouss, from the first meeting in the committee for days, have denounced this practice and recommended that you move to the right place. So after that, and since it's not a code, but it's a bill, how do you relegate all the legislation? Because that's what we're talking about now. I hear from speakers of the New Democracy about the terrible things that this bill has. Nothing's great. It relegates legislative matters. They have been legislated by Law No.3979/2011, Law No.3861/2010 on "DIAGYIA", by Law.4591/2019, which has already incorporated a European directive and insist that you now bring the revolution to the Greek state. Is it really a digital revolution that you stacked on a digital service site that already provided the public service? It's good that you brought them together, but you don't call it revolution. Or that for a responsible statement electronically you forced citizens to be identified by bank and web banking rather than by identity or by TAXIS. But the state keeps up with it. Please do not stop the digital transformation of the public that began with works on the SYRIZA government. For example, the Electronic Documents Trading System for the interconnection of twenty-one thousand operators, the provision of hundred and fifty thousand remote digital signatures to public operators and savings of 380 million from the first year of operation, digital organograms - all of this was done before the New Democracy colleague - with job profiles, digital organograms, an electronic evaluation of staff, structures and structures. All this has happened nowadays. The government Cloud, the open data, the gathering. This has happened in the country. It's already been done and running. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And not to say why you are stalling the document handling project. Of course, all of this is at the flagship project “THEVEL II”, which was at risk under the responsibility of the Governments of the New Democracy, to answer before 2015, to be cancelled and to remain without funding. Today they would have paralysed, if that were not the case, all public services and the public would have collapsed in the middle of a pandemic. In close cooperation at that time with crazy legal difficulties - the governments of the New Democracy had emerged because they were moving, and at that time with the logic of the clientele, not only now - we ensured that the project was rescued, we were forced by legislative initiative, so the operation of a telecommunications network for the entire Greek State was launched with reduced costs for over thirty-four thousand buildings of the Greek state. And while all this is under way, you legislate the Personal Number of Citizens who will have new identities. You still haven't come up with what he's gonna look like. You create a problem in "GENERAL" with a risk that no critical elements of the contractors will come up. At the same time, you are inclined digital services, while the ID contest is still pending. Where is he really? I think that didn't go very well. Just a week after the election, you canceled the contest. This was a perfect competition without any objections that were proclaimed by our own government. You have reopened him, made photographic terms, undermined competition and indeed, as we had anticipated, tenders were minimal. But above all, which is the most important, in my view, ladies and gentlemen, you have managed to expose the country to its international obligations. You know very well that within 2021 the safety documents' specifications should have been upgraded. On this basis, the country's position is assessed on the World Charter on Safety of Transport and Passengers. And you know, too, that the Visa Waiver program is also dependent on the United States. What have you been doing for a year? Nothing, you're stalling. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these great things, as well as for the management of the 5G, unfortunately, we cannot trust you. The New Democracy is not renowned for better management, except, of course, for direct assignments, friends, friends, well-known ones, all that the Greek people have been seeing all this lately and on the occasion of pandemic. In a few words: reformist incompetent, managerial suspects and you are also leading us to a security crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. Now Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is absolutely necessary and should have been here years earlier. And to be honest, Minister, it comes too late. Why am I saying that? Because over the last decade there have been global changes and steps in technology and digital development, because we are before the doors, if not already in the fourth industrial revolution, and why we are facing the new challenges of the coronary crisis. Our country, therefore, more than ever needs the creation of a clear manual for the new digital state, which will also involve a clear digital strategy in order to complete the state's digital transformation, we have heard it here too many times over all the wings of the Parliament, in order to reduce the suffering of Greek citizens in public services, a reality which does not honor any political wing, any of those who have so far ruled and, of course, in order to modernise the structures and upgrade the services provided by the public. After all, we must not forget that this effort has started with innovative laws and with top-level reforms and applications that the PASOK has introduced. A characteristic example - we have said it, but I will not stop saying it, Mr Minister, and I am glad that you too recognised it in your speeches on the committees - was opengov.gr, the 'DIAGY', the UEFA Act and many others. However, since then, ladies and gentlemen, since the changes made by the government of George Papandreou in 2010, almost ten years have passed with huge changes, as I said before. And we are here to talk about the state's digital transformation at the same time as you mentioned, Minister, we have huge delays in the award of pensions, at the same time that we are entering a new framework for teleworking, but there is no institutional framework for guaranteeing labour rights within this new reality, and that is why we are not listening to anything, at the same time that we are entering into a new reality, the reality of teleworking, the reality of tele-training. As far as all this is concerned, unfortunately, we have not seen an institutional shield of the new reality, in which we are in particular invaded by the Krone crisis. So it is necessary to make all these changes immediately, Minister. It is certainly not an easy case. It is a difficult case and it needs a lot of work and it needs even more optimisation of the existing procedures. You said it yourself, Mr. Pierracakis, the coronary crisis worked as a digital accelerator. But we expect to see the government's actions in their entirety, which we have not seen so far. I will make some specific points on the draft law. We have stressed from the outset that we need to establish mandatory electronic communication between public bodies, their so-called interoperability so as to speed up administrative procedures for the Greek citizen by saving time and money. We have stressed from the start - and we have pointed out now - that we must be very careful, Minister, by setting very high guarantees for the protection of personal data, a very sensitive issue and very high for us on the agenda and we expect you to give full guarantees on this issue. We have said since the first moment and we support what you say about the creation of the digital lockboxes, it is necessary as ever for Greek citizens and for operators so that everyone can look at any digital document or certificate and not be lost in the search. And of course it is absolutely essential that there should be an administrative register accessible to the citizen - most importantly, on the one hand, to the civil servant himself, in order for both to know what the legislative framework is, what the procedure is, what all the documents necessary to deal with his case are. But I wonder, Minister, whether you have relied on the existing work that has been done in the existing systems? We formed as PASOK government the "ERMIS" system which first recorded administrative procedures and functions. And I wonder whether there should have been a continuation in the operation of the state, a continuity in all these procedures and all these functions, which the Greek taxpayer has already paid for once anyway. It will therefore be useful to answer whether you have stepped on everything that has already existed in the past. Furthermore, Minister, we will always be here to grill you from the point of view of progress and most and most of the most true and substantial reforms for the benefit of citizens, not from the point of view of maintenance or return to the past. So I wonder, and I would like to ask you why you are not conducting a really brave innovation, which is the establishment of a digital - truly digital - establishment plan to imprint the structure and staffing of the public and the bodies financed by public funds? This printing can be completed in a few weeks' time, because it records with the minimum elements the units and individuals, as they are right now in the Greek State, can be implemented by a law similar to that of “HUMANY” and can be the foundation stone and necessary tool for even more and further reforms. You know, ladies and gentlemen, this is something that could have been done since 2010, when it was proposed by scientific bodies, by MPs. I was a Member then in that government and I know very well what had happened. Unfortunately, then the relevant ministers refused it, who have now seen 'the light the real' and resurrected hints. So why don't you do it now? This is a very good opportunity to dare. We challenge you and ask you to do so. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have also stressed that, in Greece of the 21st century, of course, every citizen must have a personal number, a unique number, in their dealings with the operators, without having to use VAT, an AMCA, an identity card, and it is rightly established. We have, however, pointed out to you in the committees that there must be an absolute safeguard of all the elements that will hold the register and any access through Nefus, especially at a time when cyber attacks, if you like, have risen sharply. Minister, these are the challenges of the future and we need to focus on them, our policies and the way they are dealt with in the best way possible. Finally, I would like to focus on the arrangements for the fifth generation networks. Clearly and we are looking for innovation, research, we are looking for the development of services and products in the 5G networks by companies, by universities, by research institutions, by public bodies. We have pointed out to you all the unequivocally, and we are telling you this now. You must, however, ensure full transparency in all cases for the establishment of the Faith Fund, with safeguards ensuring the money of the Greek people and the Greek taxpayer in his favour and not just for the benefit of a few and chosen, Minister. Unfortunately, I have to admit that with this regulation you do not seem to have the greatest mood, I would say, to get back the public's assets from the superstition that SYRIZA won. I would expect even more braveness in taking back the resources provided by the previous government to the supreme. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We pointed out to you as a Movement of Change, Minister, and to the committees that the success of this legislation will be judged in its implementation. While you spoke last week about immediate implementation - because it has been delayed and you confessed - within two months of the digital Bible, you fail to mention the timeframe for education and adaptation of civil servants and ministries and local government to the new digital reality. It's of paramount importance. You certainly know that, unfortunately, there are delays due to the insufficient training of public officials in the new digital reality and in all these new processes and functions. But we did not hear anything specific from you. We're waiting for you to tell us. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Change Movement do not exercise a sterile opposition without tabling concrete and detailed proposals. Minister, you told us that you were looking forward to enriching the digital strategy with our proposals. We have done so and we urge you to function in an open spirit and in a mood, as the state's digital transformation in no way can it be a matter of just one party. Because it's not an easy case at all. We are talking about an administration which has too many claws, and in this way we are talking about a huge innovation. The future's already here. Greece must change its page and be transformed into a digital state, a citizen-friendly state. In such matters, then, the maximum possible political consensus is needed. We all have a lot of issues to disagree with here, to disagree and to confront with a policy on the economy, on education, on immigration, if you like, on our ideology, in general. But the digital transformation of our country is a matter for everyone, because it is a need for the Greek society itself, for the Greek economy itself. The state is one, single one. It has to be all the time, and that's how it has to work. In my opinion, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since we are members of the European Union, there should be a coordinate working logic for all these services in all the Member States. There should be a wider, if you like, European logic and function that crosses all the states and functions of each individual state. We are pleased that you have joined with our encouragement for more imagination in your ministry's policies, Mr Pierrakakis, and that is what we expect to see in the implementation of our country's digital transformation. We are here to contribute positively and responsibly to our proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u110	Your Honor, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's why we won't stop fighting with all our powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Mr. Couvelas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, astrophysicist Isaac Asimov had said that the saddest thing today is that science is gathering knowledge much faster than our society is gaining wisdom. If you consider the meaning of the phrase, it becomes particularly important and timely forty years later. Minister, our objective of this draft law is one. To succeed in passing all this knowledge of digital technology to the citizens in such a way that, on the one hand, we can make their everyday lives better, without losing valuable time and, on the other, our society is improving qualitatively. It must not be lost yet an opportunity for digital transformation of the state, for which Greece is required to take place, not just steps, but jumping forward. Let us not forget that the planet is already in the fifth industrial revolution and in the era of artificial intelligence. Coming to the bill, Minister, I emphasise the great importance of digital signatures and digital stamps in public administration, justice and, more generally, in citizens' transactions, which also have economic implications, and that is why they are of particular importance. It is therefore extremely crucial that we can ensure the validity of the digital stamp and digital signatures in the context of cybersecurity, public security and, ultimately, trade security. So we will ultimately guarantee the quality of our own democracy. This draft law is of particular importance, as for the first time they are digitised, codified, consolidated under a single piece of legislation, a digital code in substance, with the main object of regulating digital governance issues in the narrowest and wider public sector. More specifically, in this draft, all the provisions, which are a pragmatic one, are being collected and updated, in fact, are being found in more legislation which thus make the lives of the citizen even more difficult. For state officials, professionals up to and including ordinary citizens, there are more than a hundred twenty provisions here and there, at least fifteen years of codified, codified, codified, in order to form the necessary basis for the development of the digital state in the next decade. So, we continue with faith in our election commitments in order for the public administration, which, according to the citizens' opinion, still remains the great patient, to slowly begin to heal. We continue with certainty that the monster of bureaucracy and unreasonable waste of time, human resources and money will eventually be defeated. Mr President-in-Office, you deserve congratulations, since with imagination a lot has already been done very quickly in such a short time. Within just one year your work is extremely critical, but the greatest success is that it is recognised by all sides and mainly by the citizens. I remember the four-year plan that you had unfolded in your schedule statements about fourteen months ago. We're finally going faster. The aim is for citizens and businesses to communicate and trade with public sector bodies only by using IT technologies, to gain confidence in trade and transparency in public administration, the citizen to let the guise, the window and the digital public administration become an ally in the difficult day-to-day life. Today we are giving solutions to the complexities, without forgetting the simplest. It is characteristic that we finally abolish fax as a means of communication in the public sector, a residue of the past. Another example, Minister, I think we should change the currency from euro-denominated drachmas to tax returns, when our country has been taking part in the Eurozone for twenty years now. Such a recent example of a document, I am tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For these reasons with this draft law, we change the landscape in administrative and civil relations, speed up digital accessibility for all citizens, upgrade the role of gov.gr, which already provides over six hundred services and reaches the thousands by the end of the year, aiming gradually all the services provided by the public to be offered from there. We are establishing mandatory electronic communication between public bodies and agencies. We create digital lockers for both citizens and public services, so that every citizen can look up there, in digital documents or certificates. We are also setting up the Procedural Register, thus putting an end to the phenomenon of officials calling on different citizens to different agencies other than documents on the same subject. The citizen will know beforehand what supporting documents are necessary before proceeding and handling his case. We of course also define the personal number of every citizen with whom he will deal with the public. We won't have to have our AMCA once, next time we're asked for the ID number, the third AMD. We'll proceed with a unique number. Ladies and gentlemen, the digital transformation of Greek public administration is a complex and difficult matter. It's a process that takes time. Fortunately, there's been some time when it started. But it requires imagination and love. It's about the whole society. We have seen beneficial consequences at this time of the health crisis, how helpful the digitisation of insurance services, the intangible prescription of medicines, teleworking, and even teleworking. It is therefore a need for the younger generations in particular, which are more familiar with technological progress, to give them, to offer them this environment. We can see it inside our house too. As a father of three children in high school, primary and kindergarten, I feel so beautiful when I see them so familiar with new technologies, that their courses can still follow through them, of course, by rules and supervision. The digital transformation bet will be won, ladies and gentlemen, on condition that every citizen understands that it is for his benefit, that it is less time, less suffering and all that, of course, is not ideological. These issues are not for barren controversy. And if there are some failures, we are discussing them and we are correcting them, because as Julius Vern said, "in technology, my friend, there are also several mistakes, but they are so useful that a little - a little leads to progress and truth". I invite you to vote in favour of the bill under discussion and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you. Mr Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u115	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a world where everything is sold and purchased by pressing a button we also need in our home country as well digital public services, public services that meet citizens' demands and expectations. According to the 2018 e-government report, ten countries including Malta and Portugal provide high-quality digital services with a score of more than 75%. Estonia and Latvia are leading players in e-government issues. This bill comes through digital transformation to modernise our state, and that is why it collects existing scattered legislation at least 15 years, on the one hand it includes new provisions to create the legislative basis on which the digital state will rely for the next decade. The institutional conditions for communication and transaction of citizens and businesses are created with public sector bodies, which are reorganised at the same time to be able to exploit information and communication technologies. I would like to stress that the bill is of a strong development nature, because, by liberating the technological potential of the public administration, it reduces the administrative burdens of citizens and businesses and contributes to the economic development of our country, since the citizen now ceases to be a clerk of the state and wastes his creative time in forming the incredible bureaucratic files. If I could choose some points in the bill really innovative, then I would first of all choose Article 11, in which the Personal Number is established as an element of verification of the identity of natural persons. The Personal Number will be the only number to be used in most transactions with public bodies. It will become single. The Personal Number will also be entered in the new identity card, it will have 12 digits, nine of which will be the current VAT and will be attributed at birth or when the citizen acquires the status of Greek citizen. Article 22 defines a single digital portal of public administration as the centre of digital service for the provision of digital public services and electronic documents, fully assimilating electronic public documents to their validity with the corresponding public documents bearing a signature. The same applies to private individuals bearing an electronic stamp and an electronic signature. Article 34 establishes compulsory electronic communication by public sector bodies with natural or legal persons and legal entities. Article 86 provides for the possibility of providing digital public services by public sector bodies through the calculation of cloud structures - 'Cloud computing' - in particular through the central infrastructure 'Government Nefus' in the public sector. And when we say "Government Nephi", we mean the whole digital infrastructure managed by the General Secretariat of Public Administration Information Systems. Article 92 stipulates that for the exclusive use of radio spectrum for the purpose of research into networks, products and services operating in 5G infrastructure, the public first of all commits a band of radio frequencies for 10 years. Secondly, the State may also commit for 10 years 200 MHz from the radio frequencies band that may remain unsettled after the process of granting rights has been completed. In addition, rights of use may be granted to companies and universities for one year if they develop 5G networks. Article 95, 'white areas', i.e. areas outside television coverage, simplifys the procedure for the benefit of beneficiaries and extends the application of the provisions to several areas which are currently free to take national territory. Thus, a public grant, which now covers a guarantee for eight years, is a simplification of the possibility of applying for and selecting a provider and receiving a grant either electronically or through the JEP and, finally, abolishing most of the supporting documents required for permits by the municipality, as was the case until now, beyond a responsible statement and the electricity supply number. In addition, five hundred and twenty new areas are added. And, of course, after the debate we have had in the committees, there will be a number of others added. Let me stay on this point, because after contacting the municipalities of Fthiotis, they have pointed out to me - and I will mention them - other 'white areas' which are not included in the proposal we have in our hands and which require television coverage. Thus, in the municipality of Amphiclia, the Palaiochori, Tithon, Drama, Wooden, Sfakah, Zeli, the Keramidi of the Amphiclia Community, must be covered. I mention names to be recorded in the Minutes. In the municipality of Lokron, Larymna, the entire municipality. I would mention, however, for the practical villages, which are: Gardiki, Middle Case, Great Case, Tymfristos, Merkada, Ravoiri, Mavrilo, Neochori, Platistomo, Giannitsou, Vatalion, Argiria, Petros, East, Agios Georgios, Agios Sostis, Paleokastro, Fteri, Dikastro, Lettuna, Platanos, Perivtheno, Kokothia, Pope, Pitsiotas, Tsuka, Mesopotamia, Kalithea, Marmara, Nikolitsi. At the same time, it is time to reshape the geographical map of digital coverage with the ranges of regional TV channels, since, for example, in Fthiotida, in the area of Domokos, the villages, while they belong to the Region, of course, Central and Fthiotida, they see the channels of Thessaly and not Central. The draft law also guarantees digital transparency, since Articles 75 to 83 reiterate the existing provisions relating to ‘DENMARK’. With the bill we are finally taking, ladies and gentlemen, the step that has been taking for many years and making it easier for citizens to communicate and trade with the public. We give access to all Greeks, inclusive, whether they are MEDI or they are from the public. We reorganise the operational procedures of public sector bodies, we earn time, confidence and transparency in the relationship between public-business and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Before my position I would like to say that all of us are next to our fellow citizens who have been affected by the sanctuary of 'Janu', where today is the same Prime Minister, who has already announced the immediate support of the affected. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest challenges facing the Government of New Democracy was the state's digital transformation. Our country, unfortunately, held in 2019 one of the last positions, just twenty-six between twenty-eight States at European Union level, with little difference from Bulgaria and Romania. Acknowledging that the digital transition of the state is the most appropriate instrument for combating bureaucracy and resolving chronic public pathogens, we have, from the outset, set digital governance as one of our main objectives. The Ministry responsible has been implementing the first integrated digital governance model for a year in Greece's history. In a very short time we have covered a significant part of the lost territory of decades. In other words, there is a silent digital revolution, which has already significantly improved the daily lives of citizens. All this is the current bill, a draft landmark, a bill - a station - which is the first integrated manual, in which the legislation in force up to now and on the one hand the new innovative interventions by the government are integrated. I shall mention eight of them. First, the Personal Number is established. Every citizen will have a unique number, which he will use in all his transactions, unlike what has been happening so far, where there has been use of the VRM, elsewhere in AMKA, elsewhere in the number of identity cards and so on, an unequivocal reform that has been in place for many European countries. Secondly, digital lockers are being created in the single digital gate gov.gr. Thus, every citizen will be able to issue a certificate, store it in his personal office or send it to his respective public office, a digital mailbox, i.e., in particular, useful to both citizens and public services. Thirdly, electronic communication with the public is compulsory, but the right to choose the citizens and non-electronic communication is allowed. Fourthly, interoperability is enhanced in the public sector, so that all its operators have access to data in their archives, but also to exchange electronic documents. It will no longer be necessary for the citizen to be addressed or run from one service to another in order to obtain documents in paper form. This is a necessary regulation which puts an end to the queues of services and the suffering of citizens. Fifth reform: A National Procedure Register, a revolutionary innovation, will be created for the first time as all the services offered by the State, procedures and supporting documents will be recorded for each transaction. Thus, the citizens will know where they should be addressed and what the necessary documents are, without any service or any employee being able to ask them to do anything different. This is a regulation that combats bureaucracy and corruption, while at the same time strengthening transparency and the necessary relationship of trust between citizens and states. Sixth, it is abolished from 1-1-2021 the fax to the Greek state, a provision with symbolic mainly, but of course also of practical importance. Seventhly, the process of obtaining a television signal is simplified for our fellow citizens in the remote areas of our country without any need for a series of supporting documents to be submitted. Eighth, 5G now comes to our country, thus ensuring the required speeds of the internet, but also supporting through the Faithful Business Fund that will make use of the capabilities of the 5G networks, a new research and innovation ecosystem with multiple profits for our country's economy and research web, public and private. On this point, with regard to the repeated observation of the Opposition and, in particular, the Officer, that a large number of ministerial decisions are envisaged in the bill and, since no shadows should be omitted, I would like to point out that the administration of regulatory acts is given the opportunity to regulate issues of local interest or technical or detailed issues, as in this case, Article 43(2)(2) of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate. Ladies and gentlemen, within a year we have achieved a great deal. This is evidenced by the recent report by the Commission, which demonstrates two days ago by the interview of the Ambassador of America in Greece, Mrs. Piat, in a Sunday newspaper, which has shown the impressive developments in our country's technology and innovation over the past year. But, above all, the enormous response of the Greek citizens bears witness. Six million gov.gr visits, one million responsible statements and authorisations, six hundred thousand intangible prescriptions and a huge volume of certificates issued through it. For us digital transformation means improving the service of citizens, increasing the productivity and efficiency of public institutions, strengthening public participation in the public, strengthening equality and accessibility of all, strengthening transparency and ultimately strengthening democracy. The effort's going on. The aim has been clearly set by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself to form a state of modern, functional and, above all, a state that is not dreadful about the digital revolution and the changes that our time brings. This is what we do every day so that we can shape a state worthy of the expectations of all Greeks, a state that is not a uraguan, but a pioneer, as it deserves in our country. And, because my name was heard this morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, yes, I support with passion this bill which I am voting for. And I am glad to say this sincerely, I have heard that in principle, ladies and gentlemen, of the Vice-President, you too are voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much to Mrs Papadimitriou for the time. Now Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA, and then the Minister will take the floor for a minute for an amendment which will explain to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is always a good debate on the digital transition, the technological and digital transformation of the public and the creation of digital infrastructures. However, this debate, in order to be honest, but also the similar initiatives for the digital transition, are not at all new at all. He's busy several governments. However, from the current government, we have seen an effort to grasp all the initiatives that have been taken in the past by previous governments. We are watching a coordinated effort to present the current government as starting from scratch and simply pressing a button changes the country era. Of course, this method does not surprise us at all as it represents a constant tactic of the New Democracy. On all the crucial policy issues, it has already failed, such as the safe start of schools, the treatment of pandemic, tourism, support for the economy, businesses, workers, strengthening of the national health system. And yet, the government is constantly creating scapegoats as for all suffering it is either COVID or the climate crisis, or sometimes SYRIZA. What about the positives? The positive effects which have been planned and launched by the previous government, the New Democracy Government, adopts them and advertises them as if there had been no past in that country. Characteristic of the attempted and co-ordinated cliff and fraud policy are the titles of the newspapers for the bill under discussion. I read: 'Digital transformation is the great unfinishedness of the state'. "Pirakakis radically changes the public in one year." 'White areas' were soon covered, as if they were not in the past. ‘The digital revolution continues at an unsatisfactory pace’. "Kyriakos Pierracakis, will Greece make a digital paradise?" "The man who drives away the fax from the Greek state." They're some of the typical headlines in the newspapers. I could comment on them one - one proving that none of the things that are presented as new, as innovative, as a major revolution is new. The greatest indication, however, of the political scavenger and fraud, but also of the communication distortion, is the title of the bill as a Code of Digital Governance. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after the speeches by SYRIZA Members, you have removed the term 'code' from the title as it does not constitute codification and falsification of the legal procedure. This also points to the conclusion of the Scientific Committee and has been analysed several times in previous speeches. I won't stand on this. But what is the point of naming a bill as a code bypassing the required legislation? The only reason, I repeat, was purely communist. You are shaping your political profile with favorites, as you are used to in all other issues. You are attempting to form a digital revolution picture, one in politics, another in public. And how do you do it? You take old flagship laws, such as "DIAGY", you remove it and you vote again. You take enforcement provisions for projects that already exist and are implemented, such as HSB, and you present it as something new. You are turning old laws into incorporation of three European directives and about fifty new articles, but provisions with a scandal smell and all of these are called Digital Governance Code. As far as the bill is concerned, selectively and concisely, I will refer to the most important points, firstly by pointing out that the fax to the public is not abolished by Mr Pierracakis, as is the title of the newspaper I mentioned, but is effectively abolished by the SIRENE programme, as is the case with the paper-handling clerks. That's what they forgot to write in the paper titles. I refer to the ICC, in the Electronic Documents Movement System, which was compatible in May 2019, this flagship project that was inspired, designed and funded by the SYRIZA Government, and today the implementing provisions are well and correctly implemented. At the same time a sample of the necessary and effective work designed and carried out by SYRIZA is the extension and extension of the action to cover a television signal in ‘white areas’. And how did the 'white areas' really come about, remember? After Mr. Samaras closed the ERT in 2011, he proceeded to the tender of "DIGEA" on condition that 95% of the population is covered and not geographically, thus leaving border regions, small islands, small villages in Evros, Xanthi, Thesprotia uncovered, without any television coverage. SYRIZA solved this with an action launched in 2017 pilots from Thrace aimed at the region's technological support, as well as the equal participation of citizens in communication and information through free access to Greek television stations. As far as the use of the Personal Number, referred to in the third chapter, which relates to the 12 digit number based on the VAT, is concerned, we have too many doubts and reservations about its use in relation to the items posted in the “TRAINING”. In the text that came out in the consultation, you suggested a nine-digit number that corresponded to the VAT. Today you are bringing in a different provision by saying that the change took place after consultation with the Privacy Authority. Following the criticism we have given you in the committees claiming that you are trying to remove filters, but also information from the "DENMARK", you are trying to hide or cover, i.e., the phenomena of your staff state, you said that due to personal data, adjustments should be made, as indicated by the Personal Character Protection Authority. However, the report of the Scientific Committee states that no opinion is given by the Personal Data Protection Authority. Finally, we ask ourselves: is there any cooperation and cooperation with the authorities? What are these personal data and data, which will not be posted in “DICATORY”? The provision is as vague as you are asking us to change the system by opening up - I repeat - a window of falsification of transparency and control by citizens. After so many assignments to day-to-days, but also extremely expensive trips by ministers and government sponsors, we do not have much confidence in you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need two minutes. No confidence, of course, we do not have in the model you enter for the 5G networks, which you and your friendly media characterise as globally innovative. Only in Greece such originals! In particular, a committee called "Participations 5G S.A.", a subsidiary of the U.S. Fund, is set up and the Faist Fund is set up in the form of a joint venture capital participation. You will auction the frequency range, a public resource for the development of the 5G. The revenues that will be generated will obviously come from the broadcasters and we all know that three foreign companies are active in Greece, which will pay the public for the use of frequencies. 75% of revenue will go to public debt and the remaining 25% will actually return to the same three foreign providers to develop the 5G network. We're wondering, why are you putting this company 5G in the superstition? What's the point? You mentioned a joint ministerial decision from the medium-term law of 2011, but the country's exit from the memorials has been mediated and we have won many degrees of freedom. The superstition is your choice. I also wonder: Is the public interest in such a strategy served by the public interest? What's the public's benefit? What revenue will he have and where will they be directed? You choose to fund with public money the most promising companies in an oligopolistic sector. How will this be accepted by us? The choice of the international innovative model, as you call it, is, in fact, another public property sale to large foreign companies, deducting significant resources from the public and domestic economy. Instead, we and the committees defending your public interest have proposed, Mr Ministers, - and I close with this - that you use the Development Bank with know-how and transparency, that revenue will be directed towards domestic investments and also innovative actions. Minister, under no circumstances can we vote in favour of such provisions that affect the public interest and waste public resources, especially at a time when the economy is in recession because of your disastrous policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. Now, the State Secretary had asked for the floor, but Mr Georgiadis will be given the floor. Minister, did you want the floor for an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u121	It concerns the 'LPIS'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u122	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am talking about Article 230 in Part C, other provisions, amendment of the Statutes of the SEA, amendments of Article 33 of Law 3614/2007. My predecessor had begun the process of creation - I mean Mr Drasakis - technical service in the 'BOD'. A special ministerial decision setting out how the technical service would be built in the "IB" was pending the establishment of this technical service, which has already come out of a ministerial decision, to be incorporated into the statute of "IBS" which did not provide for the principle of technical service, because in order to change the statutes there must be ratification by Parliament. This creation of a technical service we bring by law and we are dominating today. What's the purpose? The aim is that municipalities, which are weak in technical services, be able to make use of the services of "TDI S.A." not only consultatively, as they can until now, but to instruct technicians to do the technical studies, to mature the projects and thus to be able to make much faster use of the resources and to complete the works of the municipalities. Assisting to what is the technical service, which we have already published, we add an article on the possibility of "ITS S.A." in the information system that it already maintains. I would remind anyone who does not know that the information mark of the MAGP is retained and the various programmes are running through it. We saw during the COVID that we had to draw up new programmes, for example TECHX II, not as it was customized, say, normally, but we will build new functions, new services. So that is what we provide for in the statutes of the 'TFO' so that they are done in a perfectly normal way and do not become parentheses. So that's Article 230. I am at your disposal for any question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u125	There's no such procedure. Do you want to ask the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I would like to ask one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u127	The Minister doesn't do the procedure. Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, the amendment tabled by Mr Petsas on Friday, under a general number 468 and a special number 5, which has four articles, will come to Article 1. I would like to refer to the three other articles. Article 2 refers to some changes to the establishment plan of the Ministry of Digital Governance. Article 3 deals with a number of procedural issues concerning digital signatures and Article 4 essentially implements the suggestions made by the National Committee on Telecommunications and Postal in relation to changes proposed for the universal postal service, the rationalisation and modernisation of these postal services and at the same time the possibility of advances, as has been done before by us and by the previous government for the universal service for the next period. These are Articles 2, 3 and 4. For Article 1, Mr. Pechas will be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Katsi, you have the floor to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u130	I would like to ask each Minister one question. It's two separate questions. Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, you have indeed analysed the report of the bill and the truth is that the article is in the positive direction. I have to admit that on our own mandate, it was very important to make its contribution and help a number of municipalities and regions, but mainly from municipalities, in order to have ready studies and to submit studies on European, European resources, and to approve these on the best possible terms. For example, a re-using program for municipal buildings, say in Thesprotia, I have an example of this, the Bulgarian school was such that the "BOD" was decisive. On one point, however, you seem to be able, because there is a lack of staff for lawyers, to provide out-of-sourcing - to say it simply, it is ultimately a more common term - that is, legal technical support externally and not of the bodies. In my opinion, your service - and your political will - had to continue the initiative of strengthening both the responsibilities and the armouring of the SGP with recruitment to permanent staff. It is not only a legal service that the central administration of the 'CFO' can have. If you have anything to say about it. And one question to Mr Georgioda to close and I will not take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Undersecretary is here for the bill. He won't leave. So you have the possibility at any time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u132	I thank my colleague. I said from the outset that what we are doing here was started by my predecessor. I'll make it clear. Because I don't want it to look like I'm going in. But, under the present circumstances, not COVID in the sense of disease, but in the sense of the money we have to absorb in the coming years because of the Recovery Fund, the need for faster maturation and absorption of projects will be more than double. So, of course, the administrative mechanism and local government, as they are today, will need much more assistance. So, we're trying to fit the "BOD" into it. With regard to the recruitment of permanent staff you told me: I do not exclude it from coming and at some point request the approval of a delegation for the 'TFO' to increase its permanent staff, of course by tendering, etc. What for? Probably so that we can at the same time absorb the recovery fund's money. With the ESRB - we will now see whether or not it will remain forward-looking, for the moment, let us say that it is forward-looking, as is, suddenly, the need for projects to grow, we will never have met it since the first day we entered the European Union. So, yes, it's possible that in the future the "LMD" will need this too. Today, what we do is adapted to the present conditions. If there is that need, I am not saying no. Now, the reason given to lawyers is, because as you know today, the legal department of the "ITU" cannot provide this kind of assistance. I have to tell you that too many mayors now - not a mayor - have been inclined these months to help the 'BOD'. So what we're doing here comes to adapt to the original needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u134	Can I ask Mr. Georgioda a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Georgios will be here all the time. I just want to remind you that the TWO is by means of a European competition. They have been selected by a specific competition. Mr. Stamenitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of the coronary pandemic with the complex negative consequences has caused and created new needs and new data. A new reality that forced us to adapt to different circumstances than the ones we are used to. The social distances that emerged as a necessary measure for the protection of public and individual health made the need for new technologies imperative. Earlier than planned, ways had to be found so that by the demonstrable and time-consuming processes, we could proceed to the immediate handling of the citizen's transactions with the state. From difficult access to services and huge anticipation and tails, to enter the world of remote and quick service. State organisation and public administration have had to align themselves with developments and run at digital speeds, as has been done. A number of administrative acts, citizens' transactions with the public, such as municipal and registration certificates, attestations of the signature's authenticity, entries in kindergartens, intact prescribing and temporary driving licences are now made without physical presence. A package of state services to citizens and businesses that change data and improve everyday life and quality of life. All this obviously didn't just happen by pressing a button or magically. Many of the things that were done during the pandemic and forced lockdown, as the Minister has said several times, were in the program to be done. After all, already in 2018 the New Democracy and the current Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, have presented the seven main interventions in the area of digital policy, with the aim of modernising public administration and its digital transformation. But six months ago, ladies and gentlemen, the emergence of the spread of the coronary and the new data that we were asked to adapt have brought to the surface the need for new technologies. Remote transactions, distance work and instant information. Here too, the government and leadership of the Ministry of Digital Policy have responded effectively to the great challenge. In this context, therefore, and through the evolution of the second wave of the coronary, the Ministry brings forward and voted for the draft law on the Digital Governance Code, a bill that aims to eliminate bureaucracy through streamlining procedures. It integrates into a solid Digital Governance Code diffusive provisions, thus serving the principle of good lawmaking for the final state. It introduces and introduces innovative digital tools such as the oral number, electronic signature and stamp, as well as electronic document disposal. It attempts to maximise the possibilities of public administration by reducing the time required for a job to be handled. This draft law strengthens the interconnection of public services. The services and systems are now beginning to talk to each other, with all that that positively means to citizens and businesses. It promotes transparency, strengthens the constitutional right of citizens to access information and takes important and substantial steps towards decentralisation and administration. The important point, which is worth mentioning, is that the bill we are debating today prejudges the principle of equal treatment. As he describes briefly and correctly, and the Minister is increasing accessibility, we are reducing inequality. Finally, I would also like to refer to the provisions of the draft law providing for the establishment of a business ecosystem, which will result from the revenue of the tendering procedures of the fifth generation networks. An innovative practice adopted by our country and indeed demonstrates the will to develop new technologies in Greece, as part of the revenues, as described, will be allocated to finance companies and startups, with the main focus on the development of new technologies and the possibility offered by the 5G. The passage to a development model will no longer be a philosophical debate that we at the end see to it that we need it. It is a position that is taking place, a basic political aim that is being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also stressed in other positions that the current government, even though it was called upon to face major challenges in a relatively short time and took them extremely short time, did not at one time deviate from its main objectives. I said last week in plenary, in the debate on the health ministry's bill, to deal with the consequences of the pandemic that this government, apart from its rapid reflexes in the emergency events, also shows a consistency in its basic positions and real commitments. This draft law is part of the implementation of this plan. In an extremely difficult situation for the country, but also for the whole of Europe, we are creating a state of modern and effective. We are making use of new instruments and new technologies to improve the quality of life of citizens. We make the state friendly to the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen, voting today's draft law is another proof that our country is responding to the challenges with a glance ahead. We don't stay behind because of the difficulties, but on the contrary we make them a vehicle, to move forward faster and faster in the future. That is why I invite you all together to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Maraveyas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity through today's debate to highlight and recognise the Government's achievements in the area of digital governance, achievements that all of us now use directly or indirectly in our everyday lives, making our lives better, but also that of our fellow citizens. As a doctor, I must start from intangible prescribing and digital referrals, which the recent health crisis has brought to the fore. Practical measures to facilitate, not only doctors and pharmacists, but mainly our millions of insured patients. Minister, there were no doubts about changes in which pandemic acted on a timely basis as a catalyst, but they were not changes that were accidentally made, nor did they simply arise from the pressure of extraordinary circumstances. All of them were mature, partial reforms, which came as a result of systematic preparation by the co-legislative ministries, hard work and innovative design especially on behalf of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which we must publicly congratulate for his work and the vision of his political leadership for public administration. Why modernising the Mitsotakis government did not only exist in health. We have had the simplification of bureaucracy with electronic authorisations and responsible statements. There has been an important principle in social security, with the introduction of digital pension, which is under way. We have recently had the electronic clearing of ELKA's dues from old health funds and a number of other internal digital applications, which unfortunately is not enough time to mention and which improve every day the functioning of the public sector for the benefit of the public officials themselves, civil servants, as well as the businesses that are traded with the state. Mr President, the draft law under discussion is in the same direction as reform, with a number of policies and measures to promote digital governance. But I would particularly like to focus on some of them, because I believe that they show the New Democracy's political will to cut back on the bad past, for example, for a radical change in public administration that is not limited to Article 99 and the absolutely necessary abolition of the use of fax by public services in 2021. I start with Article 4 on the right of access to public sector information and the chapter tenth of the draft law, on open data and on the further use of public sector information. These are interrelated issues that concern not only transparency, but also the development of data accumulated by public services. The first and most important thing is to make it easier for the citizen seeking information concerning him personally, that is to say they have to do with cases handled by the administration and which he obviously has the right to know, in accordance with the Code of Administrative Procedure. For the first time, access to public documents has been granted for the first time. It is a very important measure in favour of transparency and the service of the managers, which comes to complement another key initiative, that of the commercial use of public sector data, as described in Articles 59 to 74. Unfortunately, our country has remained very back in relation to other European Union countries where the corresponding market now has a turnover of billions of euros. A few things have been done in the Greek State over the last 15 years for the further use of scientific and economic data held by public bodies in order to encourage innovation in the field of value-added products and services. It is a wish that our country will be able to move forward as quickly as possible in the implementation of this legislative framework. Only benefits will arise from the use of public data in areas such as the environment, transport, agriculture and so many others. Another important regulation is the introduction of the Public Procedure Register. In practice, this means that no employee is now entitled to ask the citizen any supporting documents other than those referred to in the certified administrative procedure. This will finally end the phenomenon of differing interpretation from duty to duty and from an employee to what steps are needed to complete a case. This uniform approach follows on from the standard communication with the public on myKEPlivegov.gr. It was another innovation that came to serve through teleconferencing businesses and citizens, especially those with mobility problems. This allows any interested party without moving from home to submit his or her question or request by closing an electronic appointment with a service. Thus the citizen is relieved of suffering, escapes crowding and tails, especially at this time of the second wave of pandemic. This is a valuable service, which, among other things, minimises the movement of people and documents by serving both citizens and officials. Another service that saves time and paper is the electronic delivery of notification systems introduced by Article 51. This shall ensure the integrity of the exchanged data, the identification of the consignor and the recipient of the data, as well as the accuracy of the time of their dispatch and receipt. It is obviously an extension of existing applications for certified state documents by citizens who define the future of a new digital public, very different from what we knew until yesterday. All digital applications that I mentioned and many others introduced under this bill are not just tools to facilitate citizens and save public resources. It is a means of changing the attitudes of the service providers, changing the organization of services and, above all, of changing the culture of the Greek public, which is now entering a new era, a era of simplification of procedures, the exploitation of its human resources and a turn to quality public services, a new state that every Greek taxpayer deserves and deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u139	Mr Syrigos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which is extremely important. It may formally not refer to the term ‘code’ in its terminology. This is a typical issue relating to Article 76 of the Constitution, which defines a specific way in which codes are deposited. But in reality it is a code, and it is a code because it brings together more than a hundred twenty provisions from scattered legislation over the last ten years and includes in a single text five relevant European directives, in a country which is generally subject to codification, to issues of scattered laws and conflicting provisions. This current legislation is an important fact on its own. The most important thing, however, is that the institutional and legislative basis is being established, on which the digital state will evolve over the next decade. Does she need us? Absolutely, so that we can equip the state and be able to adapt to rapid technological developments. Today's legislation is the necessary complement to the state of staff and gives us the basis for technological development, with the emphasis on technological neutrality, i.e. it opens up to all technologies and to come. What does that mean in practice? Because that's what matters to the citizen. In practice it means digital citizen transaction with the public. I can tell you the simple example that I have experienced repeatedly in recent months on the issue of the authenticity of signing in responsible statements, how easy my everyday life has been from the fact that I can now do it online. This means effective and remote access to public services and information. This means that the chances of illegal trade and corruption are also reduced and the potential burden on citizens and businesses are being reduced. From there on, leaving the citizen's level, today's bill lays the foundations for internal public sector procedures for the full evaluation of information and communication technologies. The simplest: electronic communication and transaction between the public bodies themselves. How many times have we heard that a document has been signed and expects to go to the top floor or to the next desk or to the processing and spend weeks. Here I can also tell you a personal example that I have experienced since e-government in the period 2012-2014, when I was a general secretary for immigration and citizenship. The system that gave foreigners residence permits in Greece was successful and we had connected it with various services such as IKA and OAED. By the end of the interconnection, we had eighty and a hundred false documents, which were received by various interested parties. The attestations given by IKA or OAED were usually on simple paper and were easy to forge. Every month we had eighty - 100 cases of this kind, which we had to send to the prosecutor. Following the interconnection of the information system of the Ministry of Interior with these services, counterfeit papers were stopped. By pressing a button we knew whether or not there was the necessary qualification, the necessary condition by the IKA or the OAED. Result? And our lives have been facilitated and we have stopped burdening justice with cases of counterfeit documents that we have sent. Basically, the code finally fulfils the requirement of Article 5a of the Constitution, as defined by the 2001 Constitutional Review. Everyone has the right to participate in the information society. To facilitate access to information processed electronically and to their production, exchange and dissemination is an obligation of the State. This is now taking place with today's bill. You will allow me, Minister, to address a point which we have discussed - and I thank you very much for that - recently. I shall refer a little to Article 81 of this bill. This article provides for the obligation of each service or body in the narrow and wider public sector to post on its website the establishment plan and the structure of services and units, the responsibilities, the organic positions and the names, the properties and contact details of those serving those entities. It is extremely important for our country to have a good, real, daily, overall picture of the public. Here I shall refer, Minister, to a proposal submitted on 23-11-2016 by the Open Technology Agency to the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice, in order to join the then draft legislation on mobility. The Minister responsible has not accepted it, with the argument that this is very serious which is being tabled and that we will see it shortly afterwards. Today, in the Greek State Human Resources Register - I looked into it this morning - the organograms of six hundred institutions are registered. None of the establishment plans shall include staff members. After all, there is no such provision in the application. In good cases, it shall be indicated whether the position is covered, frozen or simply vacant. In other cases, nothing is mentioned at all. But our country needs a single digital map of all the public units with the officials at every organic unit. Here I come to the proposal put forward by the Open Technology Agency and the organisation of "International Transparency Greece". The proposed change is simple. Already in the "DENMARK" system, there is a similar codification to what I'm about to mention. When someone enters the “DENMARK” system, he sees the units and employees who have the right to sign their documents and see all the names. It is therefore proposed that each organic unit be assigned a unique unit identification code and that each official should be used very simply as an identification code his registration number or the new number that you enter now. On the basis of this simple way of organising, we can easily have a real establishment plan and employees serving in each unit. The establishment plan can register changes in the structure of the agencies and in the distribution of staff, so we know at all times and who are officials serving in this service, how many are seconded and whether they really are from one point and then that service is working. I put forward the proposal to have it in the Minutes of this House and I hope that in a subsequent bill, Minister, we will be able to see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u142	We are putting in a small piece of legislation. At the end of paragraph 1 of Article 226 of the draft law, a subparagraph is added which states that the public consultations carried out by the EBRD within the framework of its responsibilities before the entry into force of this Act shall be taken into account for the application of the provisions of this Regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u143	Mrs Pulu has the floor from SYRIZA now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like in turn to send out a message of support to the inhabitants of our countries who have been affected by recent weather events and to note that the staff of the state have not visited them for four days. Evidently the Prime Minister who is just visiting them was probably expecting the many problems of other stakeholders to be restored...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u145	What are you talking about? From day one!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u146	Please, Mr. Comrade. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u147	And then appear in his familiar role "Messiah".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u148	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u149	Mr. President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u151	But he was in Farsala!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u152	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u153	We saw him in Evia too. Unfortunately, however, people are still excluded and helpless. And the ones responsible once again fly to each other the ball of responsibility. This is the ultimate state, which unfortunately only exists! And how can we, Minister, discuss digital governance today and at the same time in the affected areas for four days have telecommunications stopped? A corresponding negative example has been seen in the past throughout Greece with the blocking of the electronic system to subject the arbitrary to normalisation. The Technical Chamber of Greece and all its regional departments have sent letters to the Minister of the Environment with the reasonable request for extension and the answer so far is negative. Will you assume your responsibilities, Prime Ministers? Is it the others' fault again? And in this case, are it the engineers and owners who, in the midst of a pandemic, are struggling to settle their real estate? Ladies and gentlemen, with the neo-collection of a fourth industrial revolution, we agree on the promotion of a future not far away characterised by an unprecedented density of interconnection and communication between production units a set of technological innovations that will unleash creative forces, transform production process and leave a deep imprint on productive relations. Of course, bases for building the fourth industrial revolution have already been set by the ongoing digital or third industrial revolution, i.e. by moving from analogue technologies to digital information storage and transmission. However, no serious observer can question that the progress made in Greece in this area during SYRIZA governance was unprecedented. This has also been reflected in the European Union's digital integration indicators, according to which our country has followed the growth rates of the European average. The roadmap of this successful path was the 2016-2021 National Digital Strategy developed under the SYRIZA Governance and designed and carried out contagious works such as the central electronic document handling system, the SIRENE, the “ZEEZIS II” for broadband in public buildings, as well as the single digital portal gov.gr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we note that fourteen months after the New Democracy Government continues to pursue a policy of paraphrasing lightly, renamed or disguising major legislative initiatives by the SYRIZA Government. This is confirmed by the draft law on the former Code of Digital Governance, which the Minister rightly rebaptised today after our intervention. Primary care of the government, but also of the Minister personally, was to present the image of a bill that starts from scratch, which builds on chaos, which attempts a new break with everything that has been before. Although we read in the explanatory statement that it is the necessary complement to the law on the final state, the imaginary code strongly undermined the credibility of the law that it was supposed to complete, having misled the provisions of Article 66 on the codification of legislation. This draft law includes a summation of provisions which are, in the majority of them, slightly different versions of existing laws, which have been tested for years, such as laws on "DIAGY", e-government or accessibility of disabled people to websites and applications of portable devices. The body of old-fashioned provisions is now being supplemented by some new ones, and a bill which, as we pointed out in meetings of the committee concerned, could move in the right direction, that is, the direction which the SYRIZA government had in good time and with sufficient authority with the national digital strategy. However, there are omissions within the body of this draft law, but there are provisions that we consider to be totally unacceptable. First of all, we identify a number of critical omissions concerning the TAs, which the TAs spokesman also pointed out at the hearing of the bodies. The involvement of self-government in the Committee on Digital Transformation is essential to the fulfilment of its mission, but it is not foreseen. How do we expect the central government's bodies to coordinate with self-government if they do not participate in the joint planning agency's plenary? And this comes as a continuation of your even greater omission regarding the absence of self-government in the provisions of the Final State Act. The chain of omissions, however, continues with unclearness in setting up single digital governance units in the TAs. The municipalities, most of all those of the disadvantaged mountainous, island, remote areas, must be helped effectively with a concrete plan, financial resources and human resources to move them to the digital age. Let me now turn to the provisions which we consider to be totally unacceptable. We find that there is a strong blow to the "DENMARK" in this tested tool to guarantee transparency in public administration and the political system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, I shall conclude. Under the pretext of protecting sensitive personal data, but without clarifying the position of the Personal Data Protection Authority, you are planning to remove critical data from “DICATORY”, such as the VAT, which effectively cancel its mission. How else can the non-insurance of the contractors' VAT for public works be interpreted, if not as ‘closing the eye’ in the complexion? And now we come to the "Elephant in the room", in the dark parts that are located in the investment schemes that you are planning to develop. First of all, regarding the Faith Fund, you need to explain why and while the country has been out of the memorandum for two years, invoke a provision - ghost 2011, in order to allow 75% of the revenues from the 5G tender to be channelled to debt service. Did you have any other options? Yes, you could use the Greek Investment Bank. Why don't you do it? Are you afraid of negotiating, or are you not choosing the EAGF solution because it is also the creation of the governance of SYRIZA? A further question concerns the company ‘COMMUNICATIONS 5G S.A.’. You need to explain how common members, selected in terms of political criteria, can be present on the board of directors of the company, as well as on the Advisory Committee on Investment Determination. The obligation of independence of the members of the committee is challenging in this way. Can you guarantee that we will not lead to situations of unfair influence on the choice of investment schemes? However, if all these questions need persuasive answers, the main question concerns the process of the so-called capital leverage of the Faith Fund. You can guarantee us that the cashier's revenue...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u154	My colleague, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President, with that. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Can you guarantee us that the fund's revenues will result in investments and not back to the auction contractors? You must, Minister, give answers and guarantees. I close and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance, saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u156	No, no, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u157	I'm finishing up, it's just a paragraph. Under these circumstances, we cannot talk about a transition to the digital age of governance, but about transferring bureaucratic rigidities, inequality of access to information, and in particular to open wounds to opacity and the splitting up of public money from the paper age to the digital era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Digital Policy, Mr Zarifopoulou, has asked for the floor for a brief speech. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. I cannot leave the last position of Ms. SYRIZA's MEP, who mentioned gov.gr as the flagship task of SYRIZA's governance. Where does that come from? There's reference to gov.gr in the National Digital Strategy 2016-2021, but nothing happened. The National Digital Strategy 2016-2021 was published in December 2016 and until the July 2019 elections you did absolutely nothing. I do not know, if it is that you did not have time, but under no circumstances did the gov.gr, which the government and the Ministry of Digital Governance finally lifted up to the "air" and gave a solution to too many people in a few months' time, cannot be credited to the previous government. And for the Members to know, during the time of the SYRIZA government - ANEL one of the flagship works was actually delivered to the Greek people, and that was the work of electronic arbitration. This was thought to be a priority project. But that has also had a lot of issues, as we know, and that is why we are improving it. From there on, the other major flagship projects, in the view of SYRIZA, as I said in my report, have been brought to the Court of Auditors. There were no other projects that actually went ahead, with the exception of SEE, the Electronic Document Trafficking System and “COMPANY 2”. It is very little, very little what has happened in the last four and a half years before the 2019 elections, and that is something you must recognise. In no case, of course, can you credit gov.gr, which is really a great success of this government and this ministry. The numbers speak for themselves. We have more than six million 'clicks', as I said in my report, over a million applications for genuine signature, we have almost four million intangible prescriptions. That's what happened from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u160	Now Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that today's bill is one of the most important bills in this period, because we are actually in a new era with digital governance. We are correcting pathogens of the past and adapting, modernising, limiting bureaucracy and actually going through a new era. We mentioned the government's programming statements and presented an important digital transition programme. Of course, the coronary came and within just six months what was done in the direction of digital governance was important. As the Minister said, the gov.gr is currently providing over six hundred new services which facilitate the citizen and that is an important element. Of course, at the same time, we all remember that the General Secretariat for Telecommunications and Posts has developed the system for granting exceptional travel permits, known as 13033. This system has been recognised internationally. And the OECD described it as best practice, but just before the Executive Vice-President of the European Commission, Margret Westager, speaking of digital governance in the European Union, referred to 13033 and said, "This simple idea strengthened the citizens and created confidence in the digital services of the state". And he concluded, saying: 'The public sector can become a factor of positive change'. This is the essence of the Digital Governance Code. The public should become a factor for positive changes, since through innovations, corrections, simplifications, digital easy, quick and, above all, effective citizens' transactions with the public. To this, of course, the target has also contributed to the gov.gr. There's a lot to do with this bill. I'll stand up in two or three. There is a great deal of emphasis on public interoperability, whose operators will move electronic documents, communicate with each other, interconnect the services with the registers, but also access to certificates and supporting documents. It therefore puts an end to the suffering of the citizen, who was obliged to collect documents from many of the services and, of course, to waste time and suffering. Electronic citizens' portals are being created, in which the documents issued by citizens are recorded in gov.gr, but also those issued by public bodies for citizens. Thus, citizens can easily access their documents. They are codified, - that is - that is to say, the specifications - the general public websites. Each service must have a user-friendly, easily accessible, user-friendly website and, of course, accessible to disabled people. As many colleagues have said, it is also a personal number. Now every citizen from his birth will have a number of twelve digits, which will be the identity of the citizen for his transactions with the public. These are substantial changes which really take us, as I said at the beginning, in the new era. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I mean, because time passes, two words about the 5G network. In fact, 5G is coming, in order to facilitate all of us, businesses, the state, to provide important services. The public commits a band of radio frequencies for 10 years, enabling universities, research centres, companies to make free use of the 5G network for 12 months in order to make use of the purposes of research, development and innovation. This is very important. It is also an international innovation to create the Faithful Fund, because of the revenues generated by the radio frequencies auction, 25% will go to this fund, which in turn will be able to finance start-ups, innovative projects which use 5G technology, of course also to exploit themselves in industry - here is the defence industry - but also in manufacturing, tourism, transport, which is also very important. From there on, I will say a word on the issues of 'white areas', that is, areas where there is no television coverage. As strange as it sounds, and in Corfu, my constituency, there are many areas mainly in the north and south of Corfu, where there is no substantial television coverage. This bill regulates this serious issue. The 'white areas' are growing in the nineties, i.e. five hundred and twenty more than they are now, so the number of beneficiaries of the public grant is increasing to provide the television coverage service, which will last for eight, please, and not two years until now. At the same time, the procedures are simplified, since the application for the selection of the provider and the receipt of the grant will be made either electronically or in the JEPs and, of course, only with the presentation of the number of electricity supply. Minister, it is a very important bill, it modernises our state, it restricts bureaucracy and I will close with what I said at the beginning: I consider it to be one of the most important and serious bills that this government brings us in a new modern era. That is why I certainly call on all my fellow Members to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. Mr Harakopoulos now has the floor in Mr Vassiliou's place. There's been a little change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's digital modernisation, which is promoted by the bill under discussion, aims to combat bureaucracy, facilitate citizens' lives, strengthen productivity and ultimately the efficiency of the state. The need for this efficiency, both for the rescue of citizens and for the restoration of damage, for the reinforcement of the affected households, has also been seen in the biblical disasters caused by the 'Janus' Mediterranean cyclone. From the murderous cyclone the province of Farsalon did not escape, which counts its wounds from the most serious damage that has been suffered in peacetime. Houses and businesses have been destroyed, infrastructure projects have collapsed, the road network in many places has been unstable, the harvests just before harvest have sunk in mud, leading to despair of producers. Already on the mandate of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a government stadium visited the area and I really wondered about the enthusiastic colleagues and the secret lies that were heard just now by this Step of the House that four days were not visited by ministers in the affected areas, when the Sabbath meetings also took place in Karditsa and in Farsala, where I, with the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Livanios, with the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr. Skreka and the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr. Giorgos Karagiannis. In fact, immediate relief measures were announced for the affected, who literally saw the benefit with their eyes: compensation to producers, support for the first needs of households and the replacement of households, transfer of repayment of tax obligations, aid to businesses, exceptional aid to municipalities for the restoration of infrastructure. But bet is the government's clear will to be done quickly, with fast track procedures. That is why the bill we are discussing is even more timely, because digital modernisation primarily serves the efficiency of the state and ultimately serves the citizen. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the state's digital modernisation has been overdue. Despite what attempts have been made in the past to defeat the monster of bureaucracy, some of them admittedly highly successful, our country is still in the process of assimilating technological applications to civil-state relations. The power of inertia and a widespread intolerance to change have perpetuated a problem that goes back to the beginning of the establishment of the Greek state. This delay brought us to the point that we were even overcome by former socialist states, where the state was completely dominated. It is a good example of small Estonia in the Baltic, which is now a pan-European model. The scrupulous progress of technology that has brought about almost a time-lag in communications and the uninterrupted access of every citizen of our planetary village to services through the Internet have created an unprecedented global environment in which modern states have to adapt to survive. The delays in the introduction and implementation of the necessary changes are found in the economic game of attracting investment. That is why I believe that the efforts made by the Ministry of Digital Governance to eliminate all these anachronisms are - without exaggeration - a small revolution. We have seen this during the quarantine period, which has forced the implementation of digital modernisation measures to be speeded up, so that citizens' transactions with the state can be carried out at a distance. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill restricts the bureaucratic tide. It includes all relevant legislation, thus creating a landscape of eutrophication. The multiplicity and overlap of provisions are a brake on state modernisation, and I hope that the example of today's bill will be followed in all the relevant cases, such as the stream of documents between public services leading to huge losses of workers. With this law, there are ending titles - finally - and typically the use of fax in the public. The fax death predatory act also marks the transition to the new era. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions we are discussing undoubtedly contribute to modernising the state and facilitating the daily life of the citizen. In particular, the provision for the personal number that will follow us in life, replacing the multitude of numbers that accompany us in our transactions, will simplify all procedures and with digital lockers, will relieve the citizen of the stress of his relationship with the administration and administration of the confusion in the cooperation of her services. A positive consequence of all these reforms is greater transparency in the transactions of citizens with public bodies. Finally, I would like to welcome the provision for television coverage of so-called 'white areas', which are mostly mountain and remote villages with elderly people. For these people, but perhaps also for those who would like to take the big step and create their businesses in such areas, access to information and in general to digital technology becomes another dimension. And I say this, having the example of eight villages in Larissa, namely Livadi, Dolich and Akri Elassonas and Metaxochori, Karyca, Omolio, Stomigo and Paleopyrigo of Agias, for which we had repeatedly called for full television coverage. Thus, each household of the ‘white areas’ will receive a single grant of EUR 150 for the access services of beneficiaries to national and regional television programmes and for the guarantee of the equipment granted throughout the eight-year period of access. I close, Mr President, by saying that for ideological reasons we may disagree in this Chamber on the size of the state. However, whatever the size of the state, if it is the state - 'pattered' which regulates everything or a smaller and flexible state, as we support, I think we all agree that it must be effective, fast and transparent in its trade with the citizen. Because that's the only reason for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. Mr Pappas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, before I begin, you will allow me to stand on the things I have heard earlier. It was with great regret that I found an effort on the part of the Officerial Response to compare and marginally to equilibrium the natural disaster that took place in Thessaly, centred on Carditsa and added the destruction of July in Halkidiki, with what sadly happened in the summer of 2018 in Matti. A sad effort that underestimates the perception and dignity of the entire Greek people. No disaster offsetting that cost human lives. Justice, anyway, is doing its job for what happened in Matty. Also, tell us, at last, if 112 works, it's annoying, it's doing its job properly or it doesn't. 'Cause we just heard that this is annoying sometimes by Mrs. Gerovali when she spoke. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, how do you hear the fact that in 2020 public bodies exchange documents with a technology perfected in the 1960s? Even worse that local residents cannot open their TV to be informed of what is happening today, in 2020? When there is a unique number for all public procedures and people who have to consult with many bodies together, find it difficult and describe a mess? It is the situation that the government is coming to correct and regulate with the Digital Governance and Electronic Communications Bill, a multi-project that our National Representation is now called upon to vote on. This is the largest of the hundreds of five bills that have been passed to date, a bill to an extent, with two hundred and thirty-two articles, which came to Parliament since the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the country's rule. It is a goal that the Prime Minister himself had set during the declarations programs in 2019, a state of digital, modern, functional and effective. This purpose serves the multi-brand plan which sets order in the digital chaos that prevails in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the horn pandemic between the many things he taught us was the power of digital services. The gov.gr got in for good in our lives and made the daily life of all of them unequivocally easier. Perhaps the first time the public and its services became so citizen-friendly. Here we must give our Minister Mr Pierracakis Kyriakos, his State Secretarys, Mr Georgada and Mr Zarifopopoulou and, of course, the executives of the Ministry of Digital Governance. The plan may have been delayed a bit, because of the pandemic, but it's coming at the right time. The draft law on digital governance consolidates in a text all the basic legislation on digital governance, and the European Open Data Directive and the European Digital Accessibility Directive are part of national law. With the digital transformation book, Greece finally acquires a digital strategy in four years horizon. I would like to refer here to the innovation of the personal number. It is a number for all our procedures and transactions in the public sector, which will follow each citizen for the rest of his life, to make his everyday life simpler and easier. At the same time, there will be new rules for the exchange of documents and a digital box where each citizen will be able to keep his or her necessary digital documents. This draft law now sets out procedures so that all public bodies communicate with each other in digital terms. Ladies and gentlemen, with this multi-brand plan, Greece is entering the fifth generation network, the 5G known for which we have heard so much. Communications shall be modernised by rules and specific procedures. The Government will proceed to the relevant tender for the concession of a spectrum of radio frequencies to the providers. The fifth generation, however, also becomes a lever for development, research and innovation. This is because the bill provides for the establishment of the Faithful Fund. This is a mutual fund to invest in companies active in research, development of services and products. Such investments may be in transport, information, media, public utility networks and health. Just imagine how valuable the possibility of telemedicine with the speeds of 5G for a resident of a remote island in the Dodecanese in the heart of winter, where he may not fly a helicopter to save a life. The 5G therefore serves national purposes along with modernisation and development. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to stand on something specific. On the days when the plan is being discussed and processed, I read reports and I hear many of them refer to 'white areas'. Most of them have now been heard for the first time, but for the inhabitants of my islands, the inhabitants of the Dodecanese are a part of their lives, a part of their everyday lives. They are the areas of Greece that are outside television coverage. It is something that comes to correct this bill, as it adds five hundred twenty settlements with the final number finally equals nine hundred sixty. The Greek state undertakes to go there the digital signal, but also to grant the purchase of equipment. We must be honest. It is a shame for the Greek state that has had to spend six years from the digital switchover of television, to make this regulation. It is disgraceful that citizens who live on the islands and are taxed on the same criteria cannot enjoy the same privileges. By voting for the bill areas such as Panormitis in Symi, Halki, Arcus, Pserimos, Leipzig, areas in Patmos, Kalymnos, but also in other islands of the Dodecanese, Kassos will now be able to access TV. Equally important is that the procedure is being simplified. A simple application either electronically through gov.gr or through the JEP and the local residents will be able to join the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I have sincerely tried - all day long, but in vain - to be in the position of a Vice-President and to seek reasons for not voting on this draft. I really didn't find it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I shall conclude. As I did not find a serious argument for not voting in favour of simplifying and consolidating procedures that will make people's lives easier. Ladies and gentlemen, in the digital age you cannot prefer a chaotic state that has no beginning, average and end, and even makes it difficult for you. This time you are not inviting to see the future that we and you may see are ideologically disagreeing. You are asked to give Greece the opportunity to reach what for other countries is present, but we have unfortunately not lived on it yet. You should vote on a bill that should have been passed for years and we simply disagree here today on how to improve it. So give your positive vote for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Mrs Palioura - Papakostas from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my warmest condolences to the families, first of all, of the deceased, of those people who have been so unfairly lost by this murderous bad weather in the area of Karditsa. We collaborate with the agony of families looking for their missing relatives. And of course, we declare our full support for all these people who, on the one hand, lost their properties, their crops. Unfortunately, in the area of Carditsa, the Farsalon, and in a piece of Trikalon Prefecture, we have been back many years. The government from the first moment has been present and all the local actors have been able to contribute as quickly as possible to repair the damage. The state's digital transformation, the coercion of bureaucratic processes, even for the simplest public services, the end to the anticipation and suffering of an authorisation or responsible statement, the electronic signatures and stamps, the 5G, the organisation of state bodies with digital standards are some of the election commitments of the New Democracy, where under this bill they take flesh and bone, as a whole, changing the way the public operates. With 200 thirty two articles and a hundred and twenty new legislations, we are now being called upon to pass this bill of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which forms through its provisions the development of the digital state with sectors in the public sector that aim, not only to facilitate citizens and employees, but also to simplify in general many anachronistic procedures that have been in place so far. This draft law regulates issues that have been pending so far and at the same time, all legislation on digital governance is finally consolidated, and digital accessibility and data are part of our national system through the incorporation of European Directive 2018/1972. This bill focuses on provisions concerning both the citizen and the public body in general. In these two categories innovations are undeniably a priority of the present government. And not by accident, I chose to refer to this fact, since it was said by the Qualified Opposition that this bill is only an attempt to codify digital governance. I think that on this point it is sufficient to refer to only a few provisions in order to prove that this claim is inappropriate. Initially, with regard to the citizen, in Article 11, the Personnel Number shall be legislated where it will now appear on the identities of the person’s birth and shall have a horizontal application in any contact with the public. Here, it is sufficient to ask how much we have been troubled by all of us so far with the different numbers we use in every transaction with the public body. I shall then refer to an issue that has dealt with several prefectures in our country, as well as my own county, the Trikala Prefecture, which concerns the incomplete or many times unexistent - I would say - television coverage of certain regions. Obviously, it is impossible to talk about 5G today, the digitisation of the public, the open data, without the television coverage of the so-called 'white areas'. With this legislation, thirteen villages of Trikalon Prefecture, Theopetra, Vlahava, Orthovouni, Kalomira, Calomiani, Flabouresi, Agathel, Agadia, Gaurus, Kakollouri, Xirokambos, Oxynia and Stayades have a television coverage with a personal dish and antenna installation for the permanent residents of these villages. The inhabitants of these villages will therefore only declare the electricity supply number of their property. All other elements of the beneficiary will be obtained electronically without additional signatures, and the guarantee of the equipment concerned is extended to eight years. In addition, the Digital Governance Code for the first time regulates electronic seals and signatures and introduces the digital box of each citizen and each body in gov.gr. This will ensure greater security in electronic transactions through the introduction of additional possibilities for authentication. Another very important regulation is the introduction of strict standards for the design of websites aimed at being accessible to all citizens, in particular people with disabilities. Our aim is to serve all citizens directly and without difficulties which in 2020 are at least unjustified. Finally, as far as the public body is concerned, which, in many cases, works precariously and in unnecessary and time-consuming procedures, we are modernising existing services and improving their operation. Electronic communication becomes compulsory for the public, organised in digital standards, as a specific process of document handling is established both within the same body and between entities using a centralised electronic document handling system. The big bet, of course, and at the same time the wish - I would say - is that through the extensive application of interoperability in the public sector, namely communication between services and registries, the tails, waiting and suffering are finally reduced. And I could not say at this point that I would not refer to the operation of MyKEP live, such as my prefecture, in Trikala, already with a very positive response and elimination of many time-consuming processes. Finally, the nebulisation and promotion of the country's immediate entry into the 5G era is the main reason for the establishment of the Faith Fund, which is an important intervention that sets out the conditions for the creation of a functional and sustainable ecosystem for the development of our country's 5G applications and services. The code, the book - lastly the Minister responsible has deleted this title - contains comprehensive arrangements to promote the interests of citizens as consumers, so that they enjoy the maximum benefits, in terms of the choice, the price and quality of the 5G networks. That our country, for example, provides data at very increased prices, which is not the case in the majority of European countries, is a tangible example of the fact that this draft law is moving in the right direction. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that I am very convinced, but also optimistic about the very important effort that is being made in this draft law on the modernisation and simplification of the public sector, as well as the fact that our country is finally going into the field of research and innovation, given the use of the 5G in these areas. Clearly, transparently and uniformly, we are organising and transforming the public sector with digital standards, leaving behind strangles, distortions and pathogens of the past and from a public administration model of anachronistic and unsustainable reforming it into a streamlined and modernised model of good administration, less costly and more efficient to the service of the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, too. Mr Dermenzopoulou has the floor from New Democracy. Then the Minister will speak, Mr. Petsas. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation is a long-term reform initiative for our country. The aim is to create the necessary momentum to achieve the faster transition, both of the state and of the Greek society to the digital age. In order to achieve this objective, the draft law introduces a number of new, innovative provisions, while at the same time updating and consolidating for the first time existing legislation on digital governance. Digital governance therefore seeks to overcome the pathogens of the state mechanism, as well as an overall upgrade of the services offered by the Greek State to natural persons and businesses. Thus, the new regulatory framework aims to minimise the time needed to deal with a case, while limiting the need for the person concerned to be present in the public services. At the same time, new regulations encourage the more extensive use of technological means by the public sector, while ensuring something particularly important, the possibilities of electronic communication and transactions between public services. This reduces the operating costs of the public sector drastically, increases its productivity, and further administrative burdens for citizens and businesses are limited. The extension of the use of information and communication technologies by the public acts beneficially in order to prevent the occurrence of unlawful transactions and corruption, as not only the provision of the public service is depersonalised, but the processing processes are recorded in detail in order to enable quality and legality to be checked. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, within the context of the wider changes made by digital governance, I would like to summarise some of the contributions introduced by the bill, which will have a very positive impact on the lives of Greek citizens. During the quarantine, the government and more specifically the ministry’s leadership showed very fast reflexes. It has created a series of new digital services, for example, the electronic declaration and authorisation and intangible prescribing. The fact that these services will now be offered digitally on a permanent basis is undoubtedly a very important initiative that facilitates the daily life of the citizens. In this direction, the establishment of a staff number which will replace the ATM and AMKA within two years, as it will be used to identify natural persons for the purpose of providing services by public and public entities. Other interventions, particularly useful for natural persons and businesses, are to strengthen the highly successful digital gate gov.gr with new services, such as the possibility of issuing documents and applications, the establishment for the first time of an administrative register of public procedures, with the help of which everyone concerned can be sure of the procedure required for his or her transaction with the public, without being exposed to arbitrary phenomena and bureaucracy, the creation of the civil communication register, which, by ensuring the absolute protection of personal data, will be the only point in the public administration in which each of us will declare his or her contact details and from there made available to all other public bodies. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In addition to these interventions, I could not go along with the creation of the Phaistos Fund, a particularly important innovation introduced by the Ministry, which has as its main aim the development of the 5G networks in Europe. By means of this intervention, the Government and the Ministry use a significant amount of revenue resulting from the auctioning of frequencies for the creation of an investment fund that will invest this resources in ideas and actions that are directly related to the faster development of the 5G. In essence, this new point creates a new market which will enable new technological opportunities to be exploited more quickly and more effectively. In this way, a number of applications, such as remote surgery and automation of cars, will not be a science fiction, but will instead be put to the service of the citizens, while at the same time the business of the country will be more prepared to meet the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution. Finally, a great intervention also represents the fact that a piece of spectrum will not be auctioned, but will be provided free of charge to research institutions, universities and start-up companies, so as to strengthen innovation and research and gradually transform our country into a regional technology centre. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the government is doing what the Minister often calls himself in his public positions as a leap greater than wearout. By setting ambitious targets and moving forward with programming we have managed to unleash our country from the last positions to which we ranked in terms of digital performance and we are now ambitious to put it at the first speed of Europe. The draft legislation to be adopted therefore contributes to the maximum in this direction. It actually brings the digital future closer to us, and that is why I believe that it is necessary to vote in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. Mr Petsas has the floor in order to put his position on the amendment under a general number 468 and a special number 5 Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to Rule 1 of this amendment. Mr Georgadas has already spoken about the other things. The proposed provision covers an empty in the existing legal and regulatory framework. This resolution is particularly necessary in view of the transition to the liberalisation of Digital Dividend 2 with a view to the development of the networks. In particular, the proposed provision gives legislative authorisation to the Minister to whom powers of the General Secretariat of Communication and Information have been delegated, after an opinion of the PSE, to determine the numerical broadline values and even programme number values, i.e. the LCN numbers and the rules with which they are assigned. These are attributed by category of terrestrial digital broadcasting content for the public television broadcaster ERT and other public and private television broadcasters, without prejudice to Article 14(2) of the Act. Regulation (EC) No 4339/2015. This provision stipulates that free television channels licenses include the number of programmes which are rendered in the manner provided for in the PSE notice. Pursuant to this provision, the ERC has assigned programme numbers to all television channels licensed under the ERC notices under numbers 1 of 2017 and 1 of 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the liberalisation of Digital dividend 2 prejudges the change in the frequencies used by digital television. This means that it will be necessary for Greek citizens to reconstruct their television networks. Two objectives are to be achieved by applying this provision. On the one hand, it ensures the proper functioning of the television market and, on the other, ensures the minimum possible nuisance for citizens as a result of a multitude of re-coordination of their television indicators. It should also be noted that the programme number, LCN, is an absolutely necessary technical parameter to allow television programmes to be broadcast by network providers, i.e. ERT and DIGEA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I understand that today's debate and vote have a celebratory, I would say, character. The draft law already has broad support from this House and I hope that it will be extended by the end of this day. Indeed, this is a reform bill that changes the appearance and nature of the Greek state. Two codes and a few more provisions that bring the citizen closer to his state by keeping him away from public services. But I don't think it's time for celebrations. It is not a success for the political system that the use of fax in the year 2020 is stopped. It's rather sad that we need to legislate like this. And I am very pleased that the Ministry is aware of this as well, as was seen by the Minister's position in the committee responsible, but also here today. We are therefore legislating for the 21st century public at the close of its second decade. Incorporating two European directives into Greek legislation with a delay of confession, creating a single framework for the state's digital infrastructure. This is a draft law which will have a direct and impressive impact on the daily lives of citizens. The tails are falling, bureaucracy is falling, the time we need for the application, issue and receipt and the simplest certificate is reduced. In particular, our fellow citizens are favoured that daily contact with public services is a luxury either because of geographical location or because of accessibility. From the student in Agia Fotini Edessa who needs to attend her school by televising, to our fellow citizen with disabilities at Archangelos Almopia, who does not have the ability to move, but also to the student permanent resident who needs to take a train or plane to go to our embassy for a responsible statement, digital governance and electronic communications give a solution. I will only dwell on a few points of the plan, although I believe that as a whole it is in the right direction. Initially, the new code sets out the principles of digital governance policies that we shall follow: legality, transparency, equality and accessibility, interoperability, accuracy, security and others. The Digital Transformation Bible then organizes the processes and actions, as well as information projects around these principles. This creates the foundations of the digital state, the place that is not immediately apparent to the citizen. Moving on to the articles we are entering the most important issues of everyday life, such as the personal number of natural persons. Here too, Minister, may I ask that we also raise the question of new identities. I know you're watching it personally. The provisions on the issuing and movement of electronic documents to the citizen and between public bodies are, in my opinion, the fundamental aspect of the draft law we are discussing today. The digital portal of the public, the gov.gr, which has blossomed in content and visited the period of pandemic and its effects, is also upgraded. The other provisions of the Digital Governance Code concern the provision of digital services, accessibility and accessibility, transparency and, of course, open data, individual interventions in a more general context, loyal to the principles we mentioned earlier. With regard to the electronic communications code, the provisions of this draft law favour investment and facilitate healthy competition in the telecommunications and networks market at European level. Finally, I consider it a self-evident obligation of a 21st-century European state that affordable and adequate internet access is included in the list of universal services that should be available to all consumers regardless of location or income, while provision is made for accessibility on the Internet of people with disabilities. To conclude, Mr President, a brief reference to 'white areas' and television coverage. It is really important that the state ensures access to information and information in areas such as the Almopia Bay or the Edessa Vretta. With the adoption of the draft law, these areas will now amount to four thousand per cent eight, as five hundred and twenty new 'white areas' are added. At the same time, the process is simplified and the necessary bureaucracy is reduced for licensing and digital infrastructure upgraded. Next step, Mr. Minister, it is not a local community, a settlement, a village in Greece without access to the Internet. Great platform gov.gr, but you want internet access to use it. In Damian Pella, for example, there is no internet access today. I would therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the bill under discussion, as, in my view, it improves the daily life of the Greeks, while also looking at the great picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too, for the time economy. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I was watching from the circuit, the government's position, that we did not do projects and everything that we took to the Court of Auditors. It's not like that. Let me remind you that we have delivered three hundred seventeen projects of pre-approved technology, information and communication, and we are sure that many of them will also enter your Bible. You say that we did only the S.H.I.E.L.D. and the S.I.E.L.D..... Let me ask you, then, and remind you: The egemi who did it? The electronic OSH and OSH who did it? The'smart parking lot for smart cities', which was cut off, at some point disappeared from the public dialogue, who did it? The super fast ultra fast broadband who did it? These are Euro-area infrastructure projects. The coupon for citizens and businesses for line speed upgrades who did it? In any case, I think everyone in this country is watching access, television or at least being informed, and you must be a little more modest when talking about 'white areas'. You who have closed the ERT, you who have done the 'DIGEA' scandal, move - and you do well - on what has started in our own government in order to close this white hole. In 2016, the National Climate Change Adjustment Plan and Regional Plans were drafted, the great resilience plans. They were carried out in all regions during the period 2018-2019. In 2018, for the first time, Greece acquired flood risk management plans. They're up on the floors.ypeka.gr. Are these tools in the digital transformation? Can we see them somewhere? I'm saying this because Friday night in Carditsa, Farshalla, the Almyros became the bad one. I stood in Carditsa, which I visited twice since then, the first time on Saturday and the second time on Monday in a step led by Alexis Tsipras. Weather reports from Thursday talked about intense weather events in Thessaly. Civil protection informed the citizens via 112 on Friday night at 10 p.m., while the phenomenon was in full progress just an hour later. Mr. Ministers, is that how 112 works? Did you drop it off or not at all? It did not work at all in Evia 112, in Karditsa one hour ago for extreme phenomena, where there was some degree of prediction and the possibility of some degree of preparation. Is that the final state? Is it really a state day later in the area that they don't have electricity, that they don't have water, that the road has not been restored? Why aren't they? The bad weather in Carditsa found the inhabitants completely unprepared, unprepared of what the municipality should have done, of what the region, elected for three or four years, should have done, of what the state administration should have done. All blue, all unpacked, all absent the next day. Four days have passed for the Prime Minister to go to the region. Where was the Prime Minister? What did he do for four days? Why didn't he go to the area the first day? What did he prioritise his programme as more important? Most of the announcements made by both Mr. Petsas and the Prime Minister are provided for by the current legislation. Applying existing legislation is not a benefit, it is an obligation to apply it. Mr. Mitsotakis walked in town? Is that why he's late? To go to points, which he was prepared for, to be prepared, to be clean, to be beautiful? Is he able to go with the citizens to walk in trouble? Even today, four days later, is it in the mud? Is he able to go and meet farmers? Is he able to go and meet breeders, like we did from the beginning? Can I ask you something? Why do it take four days to decapitate people from the region? So, what happened today that couldn't have happened the first day? Wasn't there a helicopter? And, okay, it didn't happen the first day. Why didn't it happen on the second day? Why didn't it happen on the third day? Why should Greece spend a hundred hours doing things that could have happened in the first ten hours? Mr Mitsotakis, in his statements today, spoke of unjustified delays. That's right, but he has to look in the mirror himself. Unfortunately, this government that talks about the relationship between the trust of a state - citizen, a state - is losing with this crisis that faces every presumption of seriousness and credibility. It's a shame that the Prime Minister will come out and talk about back procedures. Mr. Mitsotakis' accounting officer wrote the same thing after the catastrophic floods in Evia. It was August 10, 2020. Mr. Pecha, since you're here, what about these citizens? Forty days have passed, how do you identify the express? Do you have anything to show about the flooding in Evia forty days later? How do these people live? The Carditians in the city and in the place cannot stand and will not tolerate the corresponding smuggling. The destruction in the city is almost universal, the destruction of livestock is huge, the destruction for farmers is dramatic. The county still sinks in the mud today. And the region has to face the pandemic's economic crisis along with this unprecedented disaster. You have resources. We left thirty-seven billion. You have no financial constraints. Support this poor world, support entrepreneurship, support farms, support farmers. Support the world of hardship and creation. If not now, if not today, when will this happen? I mean, one last thing. The engineers who go to make assessments of these disasters like now, do not have the necessary logistical infrastructure, do not have the necessary equipment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u176	Can you tell us about the digitals, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u177	I told you, Mr. Colleague, the first two minutes. And in any case you will have to learn to listen to criticism in Parliament! The voice of the citizens will reach Parliament, whether you like it or not you like it. And each Member in Stepma has freedom from the Rules of Procedure to say what he wants and is judged by the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u178	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Gika, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u180	I'm not taking censorship and I'm not taking a vacation because I dared say that you made four days to go! It's a disgrace to you, four days, a hundred hours! You should've done that for the first ten hours. It's a disgrace! And I can't accept you shaking my finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u181	The reason for this is the Deputy Minister, Mr. Petsas, to whom he referred. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. First, Mr Zachariadis, the relevant plans to prevent flooding and fires from 2 December 2019 have been presented to the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. These are the projects ‘DARDANOS’ and ‘NOLAOS’. If you have not seen them, you can consult them. Secondly, regarding the question of whether or not the world was warned in Cardiff, I would refer you - after you went to Carditsa yesterday - to see the local websites, which have from Friday morning in videos the report by Mr. Chardalia, which says that we are expecting extraordinary phenomena in Karditsa and in the city of Karditsa. And 112 is being sent when the General Secretariat for Civil Protection judges that it will also be sent here. As far as Evia is concerned, we have answered that it was not considered appropriate at the time, because we might have more victims. And the point is that we have to say a great thank you to both the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and to all those who have attempted in the field, because they have done more than seven hundred rescues. If we had not had this professionalism and these plans, we would have grieved a hundred victims, Mr Zachariadis. As for the other issues and whether Mr Mitsotakis went to walk with the world, Mr Mitsotakis went and spoke with everyone. And for what we are to judge, it will be the speed of the implementation of the concrete measures that we have taken to relieve the affected either natural persons or businesses, farmers or people who have seen their property being destroyed. What we cannot tolerate is to use your lips in order to use negative masks to appear as supposedly outraged citizens. It's unacceptable, I denounce it and you have this opportunity to get away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u184	You can't take the floor, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u185	There's been a personal report. I need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u186	You have no opportunity, only if your parliamentary representative was here. You said your opinion, the Minister answered. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Economou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u187	What do you say, Mr. President? It's not right what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u188	I know what I'm doing. Mr. Zachariadis made a reference to Mr. Pecha... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You don't have to. If it were your parliamentary representative here, I would give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u189	He made a personal report!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, why are you ruining the procedure? You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u191	Don't be alarmed! You don't have the chance to take the floor. Why would you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u192	There's been a personal report and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u193	You don't have the floor, because there's no reason. Mr. Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin with the results and consequences of the natural disaster. Fhoti's paid a heavy price, too. Fortunately, we didn't have dead as in Thessaly. However, we have had extensive and great disasters in houses, businesses, roads, on the rural roads and major disasters in cultivation. The next day is a day that should find us paying attention to the tripartite of relief, rehabilitation and, of course, prevention. The Prime Minister today announced the main axes. They've been known since the first days. Minds of Ministers were found both in Phthytida and Karditsa from the first moment. Prevention in addition to the restoration and relief of citizens is a chapter which must also be of great importance, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because climate change phenomena, extreme weather phenomena, now appear with greater frequency. Their frequency is quite dense. Secondly, because it is time and time that we really need to see anti-military protection more centrally, with greater priority, with new sectors and studies and things will come to deal with the data we are facing today, new meteorological data. Mr President, before I enter my speech on the bill, I should like to make a comment on the criticism of counter-population on the management of the phenomena of naturality in recent days. Everyone obviously has the right to say what they want. I would expect as a parliamentarian - as the citizens who know and remember - greater restraint and greater self-respect, by the government of the people who participated in that interview, at that show parody at the offices of Civil Protection at the time that Matty was burning. One would expect a greater restraint and greater respect from the government that made head of the Fire Corps that unexplained press that said to the expert, "written about house density, write about wind speed, write four - five things and cover them up". I would expect greater self-respect and greater restraint. These are serious things to say: why did Mr Mitsotakis not go there on the first day and took the fourth with the staff of the Ministers and with all the measures that will give relief and rehabilitation that we are talking about? Is it serious things to say that what Mr Mitsotakis said is provided for under the current legislation? The five thousand and eight thousand compensations are provided by any existing legislation, Mr. Zachariadis? Tell me about it. It was a PPP voted for by this government for Evia that will now be implemented for the disasters in Phthiotis and Karditsa. They're now laws. More self-restraint, more self-respect and less stress for opposition for those who have managed with a proverbial failure, with tragic consequences for the past. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill we are discussing on the country's digital transformation. It is no doubt a bill that is a unique opportunity for the state and for the public, not only to release skills, to make the economic factor more effective, but at the same time to gain points in the eyes of the citizen as far as trade with him is concerned. It is a unique opportunity to finish the endless tails, with endless go - come on, with anticipations that in many cases have to do with the survival of people. I'll explain about it then. The law we are debating today, Minister, is a law that is indeed a framework for deepening and developing digital governance. He just wants to achieve that goal. Articles and initiatives such as the introduction of the Personal Number, such as digital lockers, such as the interoperability of public systems without doubt enable the State to operate more effectively for the benefit of the citizen. They enable people to escape re-issuance, re-certification, continued hunting of public officials and service actors in order to do things that are self-evident. And it's definitely in the right direction. Particular emphasis, Minister, on the establishment of the company "CONTACTS 5G S.A.", of the company that the Faith Fund will have, a fund set up to finance innovative initiatives on the development of a number of activities such as telemedicine, transport, logistics, early forecasting and information on extreme weather conditions, agricultural warnings, utilizing the 5G range. Thus, the tendering of the spectrum, in addition to the obligation to finance the debt that comes from the old, begins to acquire a more developmental and more substantial dimension for the Greek economy and production. It is an opportunity for this fund to be involved in interoperability, if you like, by identifying untapped development funds from the region in order to install such innovation hives there. A first-class opportunity would also be the area of the Pan-Hellenic Lamia Exhibition which could become an area for the development of such companies that will develop initiatives and activities around the 5G spectrum. And now a word about the 'white areas'. There is no doubt that it is something people are expecting throughout Greece, that people are expecting it in areas of Fthiotida. It is an obligation of the state to do so. However, as far as this part is concerned, Minister, I would like to say to you, taking advantage of the presence here of your colleague, Mr Petsa, that there is one issue in the region with channels, local and regional, which the inhabitants of our regions cannot see. For example, the Minister knows that in Domokos people cannot see the local channels of Phthiotis, Lamia. Accordingly, in the region of our Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga, in Fokida, also people have no access to the channels of central Greece. We must, with the authorization of regional channels, establish that the administrative limits will also be the emission limits. I think technology can cover us in this. And I'll close with this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I said earlier that in many cases the expectation is also linked to matters of survival. We're talking about digital transformation. It is true that the Ministry of Digital Policy has given very specific and very good examples of writing, and indeed under pressure many times. There is a number of our fellow citizens, thousands of people, who see huge delays in vital issues for him, such as the award of pensions and, above all, the awarding of agricultural pensions. These people are listening to us talking about speeding up procedures, they hear us talking about digitisation, they hear us talking about programmes that will channel elements to the other, but what they receive this year of our own governance, together with four and a half of the previous one, is the huge delays in the awarding of pensions, particularly in Central Greece, where the problem is too big. I know the efforts of both the Ministry of Employment and your Ministry. However, it is a matter of honor and credibility as a whole of our efforts to digitalise the state in such issues of vital importance to fall above, to pay attention, to exploit the predictions and possibilities that exist, so that people stop being troubled and quickly get what they deserve. With these thoughts, I am obviously voting in favour, and I call on you to vote in favour of an authentic reform bill that will speed up and deepen digital transformation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u195	Before I give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragosi, I would like to respond to the revoltarian colleagues. Mr Zachariadis, because I am sitting on the table dynamically and not staticly - I happen to be a physicist, and that is why I also use a physics terminology - he also referred to the phrase 'the present Mr Petsa'. Mr. Petchas answered the way he thought and thought. He answered, he has no response, and it is not a personal matter. In fact, I made it easier for you, something Mr. Raguss may have seen from the inner circuit and came to talk to him. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Petsas, you have referred to two dramatic and very tragic cases of natural disasters which have led to human lives being lost and which have been shocked by the pan-Hellenic. You referred to Evia and Karditsa, on the basis of what Mr Zacharias has just said. As far as Evia is concerned, we had eight dead. 112, the notorious 112 didn't work. The excuse was: “Because if he operated and sent out evacuation messages, he could cause more victims.” Who said 112 is only for evacuation messages? Who said 112 is not an early warning system for the upcoming danger? Do you know who said that, Mr. Pecha? You said it! And you said that, because when the "Jane" came and was going to hit the Ionian Islands, you sent SMS with 112 to warn about the danger, which you didn't do in Evia. You didn't tell the world to leave the underground, to leave dangerous structures, to move away to save his life. Can I tell you what else you said about Evia? You said you didn't have the right weather forecast. And the National meteorological Service came out, which I don't remember ever doing before, with its official announcement, and disproved you in a way that if you had the elementary emotiveness, you should only be ashamed of it. The National Observatory came out and told you that the prognosis was accurate and that you had it four days ago for the evil that happened in Evia. And for Cardinal. Is it excessive for our colleague or today's statements that it was unacceptable that Mr Mitsotakis waited four days to go to Carditsa? No, it's not too much, Mr. Pecha. And you know why? Because Mr. Mitsotakis was not on a summit, he was not somewhere to give the battle, and we went out to say "Why didn't you leave the national meteorator and didn't go to Karditsa the first day and you went to the fourth." Where was Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Pecha? It was at meetings, one of which was also worthwhile, otherwise, an award "Emperial Theophanos" which will be awarded in October to Thessaloniki. That's the Prime Minister's priority! So this is not a very serious issue, a very serious point of criticism? Because, Mr. Petsas, when Mr. Mitsotakis wanted to go quickly to Epidaurus from Antiparos he used, in the midst of a crisis in the Aegean, a military helicopter, and now he didn't get the opportunity to go to Carditsa for four days! And I come to something last, because everything has their limits, Mr. Pecha. Say all the arguments you think facilitate your apology. But is it possible, in such cases of natural disasters with our dead fellow citizens, to ask today for someone to say good news, why did some people do their job, instead of you finally say apologies and once do your self-criticism in front of bodies, in the dead?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u197	Here, Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis went to Karditsa in four days. Mr. Tsipras spent four and a half years as Prime Minister to go to Carditsa. And he only went before the elections on May 17, 2019, to get a vote! That is the answer to how we see things and how close we are to the citizens! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I said before that we will be judged on how quickly we will proceed to the restoration of damage and the relief of the affected. That is what we will be judged by the citizens. Now, as far as 112 is concerned, we built and work 112 where there was no 112. And 112 is used when judged by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and not by me, neither by the Prime Minister, nor by you, Mr Ragosi! The experts will judge. And as I said before, there are specific manuals on how we are moving in cases of natural disasters. Now, with regard to the other issues, what should the previous government ask for on all that has happened? And is there no "thank you" for all those who were trying in the field? I told you before that over seven hundred rescues took place and there were over two and a half thousand calls so that people could be saved. Aren't we going to say thank you to these people? Did they just do their job? We say thank you to these people who give themselves to save human lives and we will continue to do what we know, namely professionally, to let experts attempt in the field and not show that we are there with political arguments and take photos when we go to a safe field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u199	And now I will give the floor to the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr Clana Gregoriadis for six minutes. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga, has then asked for the floor. Then we will be on the list of speakers unless a further parliamentary representative is asked to speak. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will not bother to bore you over again and repeat things that you know very well from whatever side you are and have heard many times here. I will only say three things to the Minister to note, because I think, Minister, that it matters. The first thing that I think you should keep in mind is to make it quite clear to all state officials - I mean public officials - that the use of digital systems is optional and despite your opposite assurances, we are concerned and under no circumstances should the various services consider them or make them compulsory. You know, I'm saying this because we have a precedent. This will force Greek citizens to make use of the digital system only. We must not forget the thousands of cases of our fellow citizens, who, as they have no familiarity, as I have until recently - that I became a Member of Parliament forced me to go into these things with the new technology - are even forced for a simple transaction in the 'TAXIS', for example, to seek help at best by relatives, friends or even worse on payment by accountants. You know these problems. So we suggest that it be made clear in the state machine that digital use is optional and not compulsory. The second is that this draft law does not provide - and we are concerned about it, Minister - for the creation of surplus back-ups so that the relevant computer systems are resistant to disasters, damages and cyber attacks. If the integrity of this data is not guaranteed, this gives some, in our view, to choose private systems. The last thing we want to say to you - stones know too, but I have to say it as a parliamentary representative - is that, with the draft law we are debating today, you are unfortunately giving up, Minister, another public asset of ours. As this fund will of course not be under the control of the Greek state, but of the Troika, despite the fact that as you know well, it will manage Greek citizens' money. That's all I had to say about the bill. As you know, at first we vote 'yes' and it makes no sense to tire you any more. Our Chief, the Secretary of Mera25, told you the articles in which we have a strong opposition. You will now allow me to say two - three things very - very quickly, because I do not have time for 'January', for the destruction of Greece - a powerless country. Do all this remind you of you, ladies and gentlemen? They remind me of me. It's the story of my life. I've been 55 years old and since I remember myself, I've been tired, my heart has broken any natural disaster to find my country irresistible. And the more atrocious part of the country hits, the more irresponsible to find it. I've been going to Ithaca since 1986. You know, I have no reason to vote. I'm not elected there. I've been elected in Athens, but I've been going to Ithaca since 1986. This place is one of the few parts of our country that is still intact. I fear that the reason it has been saved and kept intact, as well as the souls of its inhabitants away from alienation - and they are real people even very cute - is that it is not a weekend island and that it does not have close access, it will be the cause that will be delayed by all the regions affected to reach the aid. So I exorcise you to the government and the Prime Minister to look not only at Zakynthos and Kefalonia with enormous needs, but at Lefkada that is below the hierarchy and even more to look at Ithaca, which is forgotten by God, in some way. It's a jewel of Greece. Don't let it desolate. Ithaca, as I knew her, is no longer there. I, too, would expect more respect for you, dear colleague, and greater restraint from SYRIZA who managed the Matty, but I would expect from you who have at least three dead in less than three 24 hours. Don't stain. Don't take the swords off for that kind of thing here. Look at how other people don't die in the future. The reason all these people die has not fallen out of heaven. I do not want to repeat this at the Greek delegation. It has fallen from the rule of ages, but most of all from your governance after post-multipleism. You have ruled alternately with PASOK - now a Change Movement - and a very small parentheses of SYRIZA, which is not so small. Four and a half years were enough to tackle some of the chronic diseases. The fact that our state every time is powerless to natural disasters - in relation to all the other European states which are outrageously helpless - is due to the specific policies carried out by the two major parties in Greece which are your party and the PASOK - the current Movement of Change - and SYRIZA has not been in place for sixty years. These have made the country completely irresponsible, such policies. The fact that the information only last minute has not reached Cardica is really a divine trial, a punishment for all of you who told SYRIZA for not reaching 112 in Matti. To reach 112 in Matty, there must be a mechanism that has no one appointed with ruffetti. And that's where you have a problem, because all the big parties, all the power parties, you systematically appoint hundreds of thousands of people with rushphetti. The people who are appointed in rushphets look, in commonly called, themselves, not to say anything worse, as they do. They don't look at the Greek winter people. Now, for health it will be the Christian Ministers of the Government of New Democracy, who say, like Mr Kikilis yesterday, that more than half of the nurses in the “Evangelism” and “Survey” were immigrants, to stop this particular covert racism. We propose to be informed from now on just how many of our fellow people are hospitalized in these hospitals, because, you know, this whole story with the strangers who allegedly came and got stuck and supposedly the intensive ones are not enough because they have been flooded by foreigners and, in fact, illegal immigrants - I am using this obscene expression on purpose, because many of them are using it as a friendly approach to your party - it is a legend. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. The reality is that the intensive and simple beds are not enough, because in eight months, you have not made any new intensive - despite the fact that you have made little - because in eight months you have hired four hundred nine doctors, instead of ten thousand planned by the Ministry of Health for Samaras. This plan provided for the immediate recruitment of eight thousand doctors. Finally, for Turkey - which is now eating slaps at the same time as our American friends yesterday said that there are controversial maritime areas in the Aegean - that of course the secret diplomacy exercised by the government prevents us from having light. We live in the dark. The rest of the parties don't know exactly what kind of diplomacy there is. However, from the result, we see that this diplomacy has in no way succeeded in isolating Turkey. Look at the US embassy's statements in Turkey yesterday. You are also involved - and I am very afraid - and SYRIZA, because when SYRIZA was five years ago and you continued to accept Turkey as a safe country to continue to respect our hypocritical and extremely dangerous national agreement with the European Union, a European Union-Turkey agreement to relaunch refugees, you are - and I close with it, Mr President - who are making the Turks, since you accept it as a legitimate country and you do not say that they are fascist and kill the refugees or immigrants who arrive there, but you say that they are legal and 'let them get away from us', that they can publicly claim today that they are today internationally respect international conditions and international law. They do not respect it, but since we accept them as a safe destination for refugees throughout the world, how easy is it to rebuild this argument? Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. I give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Ioannis Buga, for twelve minutes. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group regrets the loss of human souls, as well as its full support for our fellow citizens, who have been tested and still be tested by the extreme weather phenomena that have engulfed our country in the past 24 hours. The government is true that it has been next to the wounded since the first time. Under the mandate of Prime Minister, a governmental step consisting of State Secretarys and Ministers was in the affected areas from the first moments, to give the relevant instructions and to provide the orders for the immediate relief of the affected. Today, the Prime Minister was found in Carditsa, and following his instructions, the government is taking direct action to compensate households and businesses affected by areas declared in an emergency. Some relief measures, which have already been announced, are the suspension of payments of all outstanding accredited and overdue tax obligations, the granting of exceptional aid to households affected by their main residence, the direct disposal of one million euros to each municipality affected by the restoration of the road network. It shall also proceed directly from the ELGA to record the losses in order to obtain the compensation provided for. One-off exceptional aid shall be granted to natural and legal persons. Business grants of 30% to 70% of the damage to buildings, machinery, raw materials and goods is foreseen. Household assistance is provided to natural and legal persons for the restoration of buildings. It is being launched, after consultation with the Greek Banking Union, to suspend or regulate credit obligations to the citizens of the municipalities affected. They are part of the fourth cycle of repayable advance payments of the affected municipalities, without requiring the reduction of the tick rate and the use of a cash machine as a precondition. These, ladies and gentlemen, are some of the measures that the Government of New Democracy has taken to relieve the affected. To address colleagues from SYRIZA who have spoken - with political courage, I would say - ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr Tsipras, from Thessaloniki to Athens, made an interim stop to Carditsa after four and a half years - as Mr Petsas said - in the absence of. Four and a half years hadn't visited the area. And what did he say? He promised money and talked about time-consuming responsibilities. Obviously, he meant the works his government did and should have done. There was also a discussion by the Chief of Greek Solution and other speakers on issues relating to Greek-Turkish relations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to my fellow Members, and in particular the Chief of Greek Solution, that is to say, that the military deterrent power of our country against Turkish aggression on our islands is not weakened. As long as the Turkish threat exists, Greece has a legitimate right to reject it by every means. And of course, you should not worry about the adequacy and adequacy of the Greek Prime Minister to handle the Greek-Turkish crisis and highlight the issues that concern our country in relation to Turkish aggression. Today, to see how much Greek things are being watched and trusted by the Greek Prime Minister, there is a tribute to the German private news station "NTV", which highlights the Greek Prime Minister as "a representative of the week". It mentions, in particular, the report that, unlike the past, the country is ruling with wisdom and intelligence. To the surprise of European public opinion, Athens has done so impressively and the destructive year 2020. The strangely problematic child in Europe is clearly transformed into a model. So our country is coming with wisdom and determination. Ladies and gentlemen, they are not our words, they are not words of the systemic media that you say in Greece are exterminated. It's all the German press reports. I now come to the draft law which, despite reservations or objections, the majority of parliamentary factions agrees that in the circumstances that we are facing today, it is absolutely essential. In the same way, all the bodies invited and presented to the committee shall be drafted. The representatives stressed in particular the need for the draft law and proposed supplements or clarifications, many of which were adopted by the government. Moreover, the reception of the draft law is absolutely positive from the Greek society. The explanation for that is simple. Because red tape and the multi-vehicle and anchored public sector certainly work implicated for the much-conscious development of our country, implicated in all areas of government action: administration, health, investment, tourism, culture and justice. Digital governance is the great opportunity to reform, to address the serious and chronological problems of civil relations with the public administration. We are doing so at last: We are making the legislation uniform and easily accessible, for the benefit of citizens, businesses and the public. The digital state is not something blurred and vague for us, nor is it exhausted in simple wishes. The country's digital operation, ladies and gentlemen, now finds itself in a piece of legislation, without being lost to the pluralism or the paths of a dreadful legislation, by means of parallel references to other legislations, which were practically the previous ones. At this point, I would briefly like to refer to the reluctance on the part of the Officerial Representation that, allegedly, the bill does not comply with the principles of good legislature, with regard to codification, but is simply trying to vote again in Parliament on existing regulations. That's not true. I would even say that the very opposite is true, gentlemen, of Officerial Response. We don't dismantle everything. We are not tearing down all the good things that have been done in our country, as previous governments have done. We build the new Greece. We are implementing digital transformation in a difficult environment, but with practical recognition of the previous efforts evaluated as beneficial. Our government, without arrogance, builds where there is a solid legislative basis. It improves and reforms, where necessary, the existing institutional framework. This must also be done by a government that respects itself, its citizens and Parliament. SYRIZA's criticism of the procedure, which he has attempted from the outset, in order to make opposition speeches, did not convince MEPs themselves either. Few Members from the Party of Police have today spoken to support the arguments put forward by the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. I would like to make a reference to a few provisions of the draft law, because time is not enough. Under Article 95, changes - and other colleagues have mentioned - are being made to television coverage of areas outside television coverage, so-called 'white areas'. In the proposed provisions, the list of these regions is enriched by five hundred and twenty new ones, so that their total number will be up to four thousand and eight. It is therefore absolutely clear that the most important effort is being done for the benefit of the Greek region. This is, as I have had the opportunity to say to the committee, the implementation of the constitutional requirement for full and pluralist information and information for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental principles of public law belong, according to constitutional requirements and to the decisions of the Council of State, both good administration and the protection of the legitimate expectations of the commander. In other words, the citizen must not be confronted with, literally, torture of his daily lives, faced with tails to public services, lost in unreasonable and exhaustive procedures, at the cost of time and money. The state must create a sense of trust for its citizens, serve and facilitate its daily life, and ensure so-called legal certainty. With this bill, following many important and important interventions by the Ministry of Digital Governance, chronic diseases are limited. In addition, transparency is guaranteed and a relationship of confidence between the managers and the administration is built up. Articles 48 et seq. provide for the determination of the legal validity of electronic signatures and stamps and the certificates required by the identification services. The establishment of the single staff number, the establishment of a digital portal with the provision of an approved electronic delivery service, as well as the establishment of the national administrative register create an environment of increased confidence and security to the State of the Greek citizen. Already through the gov.gr gate the citizen, the commander, can now handle his affairs electronically at ease and speed. The unprecedented pandemic that hit the planet was, of course, said this by almost all the speakers - the decisive factor in speeding up and completing some of the processes that we are discussing today. However, it has been made clear - and I would particularly like to stress - that the Greeks, even under these critical conditions, are ready to move forward in the new era. The changes that the digital revolution is giving birth to are tangible and their consequences absolutely visible, because they change and change the everyday life of all of us. With the draft law, ladies and gentlemen, which we are now called upon to vote on, i.e. a text, as I said before, coherent and clear, despite its scope and the many technical issues it is called upon to deal with, we are changing a page. The country is modernising and transforming. It is transformed into a state of digital, a state of modern, citizen-friendly. The country's digital transformation is a painful process, which requires time and joint effort. There is an undeniable need for it to be completed in Greek society, in view of the demanding and national critical moments that we have before us. We must dare this reform and we must do so in unity, all together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u203	We continue with the list of fellow Members and I give the floor to my colleague Mrs Stergiani (Stras) Biziou for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. My thoughts and care as a government are currently being found in our affected citizens in the regions of Thessaly - in my prefecture - and in Central Greece. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, transparency, efficiency, security, confidentiality, service: these are the priorities and main objectives of the draft law under discussion. Digital technologies have changed the way economies, societies, governments operate. The impact of digitisation shall be easily observed in the developments that have occurred in the processing of information and data at connectivity levels. Business and everyday life are almost today unthinkable without digital technologies. Governments are obliged to meet the challenges of the times, to change the way citizens work and how they organise themselves. They are obliged to create a information society. Moreover, directly or indirectly, citizens positively assess a government based on the services provided to them by the public administration. How do we achieve this today? The answer is one: e-government, digitisation, transition of traditional public administration to electronics. It is a oneway to our government toward digital reform. In 2018 Greece was in the last position between the twenty-eight Member States of the European Union, with the percentage of e-government users being 38%, while its average was 58%. The public sector is facing a great challenge today. It is called upon to review how it serves its citizens, citizens who have increased expectations of the quality and speed of the services they use. The incorporation of new technologies into the daily lives of citizens, businesses and the public sector helps to create a new form of conciliation and a relationship between administration and the citizen. The digital environment offers opportunities for participatory relationships that allow stakeholders, citizens, businesses, a state to cooperate to create public services that will provide coherent and integrated solutions for daily needs. Digital reform goes hand in hand with economic development, social equality and good governance of a state, a government that is conducted in terms of transparency, integrity and participation of citizens. Digital governance is therefore a reform of radical modernisation. This bill is the quintusia of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which was created to cure all civil service malfunctions and delays. The digital governance legislation integrates into a text all the legislation on digital governance, regulates issues that have been pending so far and incorporates in our national law European directives on digital accessibility and open data, introduces the digital transformation book, which is the reference point of our country's digital strategy, creates a specific process of documenting both within a body and between operators. This is done through the use of a central electronic document handling system. The personal number of the citizen is legislated. The Personnel Number serves to identify natural persons, for the purpose of providing services by bodies in the wider public sector. It will be attributed once to any natural person and will not be changed. For those who already have VDUs, this will be their personal number. Cloud First Policy: the Greek public official in the "symbols". The practice of Cloud First Policy and the public bodies are required either to use the central governmental Nefus of the General Secretariat of Public Administration Information Systems or other public Cloud infrastructures by certified providers. Digital signatures and stamps are being established. The security of electronic transactions is strengthened through additional possibilities of authentication of the user. Each citizen and every body in the gov.gr, the public digital portal, is established. Citizens, services and businesses will now electronically issue the documents required for transactions with the public and banks. It no longer needs a natural presence for the citizen to draw up a responsible declaration, an authorisation. Even the identification of natural persons is done by electronic means. An electronic communication of the public with the citizens is being introduced. The contact details of citizens shall be registered centrally in the National Communications Register and shall establish all such tools that ensure the confidence and integrity of services, such as electronically established delivery. There are many innovative arrangements introduced with this legislative initiative by the Ministry aimed at simplifying the daily lives of citizens and their transactions with the State, while at the same time ensuring transparency and security in the functioning of the public sector. This bill lays the basis for a complete transition of the state to the digital age. The vast majority of Greeks have already recognized the great contribution of the Ministry of Digital Governance to improving and simplifying the daily transactions of citizens with the public. With the takeover of our governance in 2019, we legislated the final state and the law of the executive state strengthened the functioning of the central administration's institutions and became the reality of colonisation. Today we are legislating on the foundation, the tool that will allow the state to function best. The digitalisation will be applied to all administrative structures and staff for the better use of staff. The benefits of digital governance will be multiple. Better services are provided, money saves, new job opportunities are being created. In the end, transparency and accountability are ensured. Finally, I cannot help talking about the draft law's development mark. Studies have shown that technology contributes to productivity. Productivity leads to competitiveness which is an integral element of economic growth. The international crisis that has erupted because of the coronary pandemic has raised the digital upgrading of economies to urgent priorities. The draft law under way is leveraging the development of the Greek economy on the international scene. Today's bill is the foundation for modernising the state and public administration, for passing through the digital age of the future. Public administration is a factor in a country's socio-economic development, as the institutional framework and mechanisms for supporting, operating and controlling economic and social activities are energized through it. Public administration cannot be static, must be dynamic, must adapt to changing circumstances, must evolve and develop, as its environment requires. That's exactly what we're doing today. That is why I consider the vote in favour of this bill to be almost self-evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too. And we continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Konstantinos Kyranakis, for seven minutes. Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u206	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u207	You're making it easier for us. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, I would like not to repeat the arguments which have been heard several times by our rapporteur, Mr Mella, and by all my colleagues - and I am particularly pleased that there is a climate of consensus today in this bill - by all the parties. What, in my opinion, should not remain unanswered is an attempt by some colleagues and by some political parties to create a climate for the so-called 5G. And it really upsets me to see politicians who draw their political arguments by scoring up unorthodox screams in social media from their phones, which anyway produce the radiation they blame and how much more when some of them move around with three devices in their hand. So what is this 5G, which we hear over and over again and frightens a part of our society to which we must explain? And before all we, the elected members of the Greek Parliament, must understand the issues we legislate on, understand what is written in the lines of each bill, especially when it comes to technology, which often complicates things. So the 5G can offer more than twenty-fold speed to the technological services, which we already use today. Imagine how easily someone who lives on a remote island, a patient who will be in contact with his doctor and through telemedicine can be well. Imagine how much easier a civil servant will be able to serve every citizen in this country. Imagine what possibilities each one of us will have at twenty-fold greater speed than in today's networks. These frequencies, which are also provided for in the bill and which will come to settle, replace frequencies that exist today, such as those used by Greek Solution officials to go out on their own channels and say what they have to say. It's a replacement. No addition. So let us stop saying things that do not apply. I shall refer to a great new Greek who currently exists in the United States by name Michael Cratzis, who is head of the Technology Office of the White House and the Pentagon. To understand the value of this man is the man who manages and discusses the policy of the United States with the technological colossians, whose services the whole world uses. And he's a Greek, a trinar at the White House and the Pentagon. So this man in the context of his work and in the context of the persuasiveness he must have towards American citizens, but also the citizens of the world, has explained the advantages of 4G, thanks to which only in 2016 the United States increased their GDP by 100 billion dollars. Consider the potential of the Greek economy, which is taking the lead in the Faith Fund. I would like to congratulate the Group of the Ministry of Digital Policy, which dares to innovate, dares to bring a solution which we do not copy from another country. With the Fascist Fund we will be able to finance Greek companies that will invest in 5G infrastructure to do all that we have described. So, at a very critical geostrategic time, with a neighbour who is causing and at a global speed in technological developments, which we cannot ignore, it would be a crime if Greece were not to start investing in 5G from now on, so that we could not just catch up on the train of developments, but to be able to take the lead at European level. With this bill, I think we are doing some important things, including the Faith Fund, which I mentioned just before, but also the simplification of procedures throughout the public sector. The gov.gr - I think many colleagues have said - is one of the great successes of this government. Others have said so to previous governments, but they may not have caught up with it. In any case, however, it has been done. The gov.gr must be constantly enriched and I am glad that a proposal made by a number of Members to the Ministry of Digital Policy Group a few months ago, that is, every citizen should be given his own safe deposit box with the documents he downloads from gov.gr, that he can have everything in one place and send it directly to the public service, so that he can solve his problem. And I think, Minister, that other services can be added. For example, there is no reason in terms of PPC's accounts, which are printed on thousands of machines and which are consumed inappropriate quantities of paper, not to have them in a gov.gr service and to be able to pay them and send them where they need to be applied. There are too many examples, which may simplify our lives, make it much faster and save both the public and the administration, but also the suffering to which it is subject today. Minister, I would also like to make a proposal to you which is not about today's bill, but I think at some point we should agree in this Chamber that we should change for centuries, as you say. I have before me the legislative improvements you have put forward today. I have nothing to say about the substance of legislative improvements. I have to say, however, that it is really strange to ask fellow Members to understand within a few minutes and then just to vote for legislative improvements in this way, on a piece of paper, which refers to a piece of a multi-page bill, without there being any electronic means of identifying the Member, but also the journalist, the media, the citizen, what is changing. This can also be done in the committee and in plenary procedure and in general in order to improve the quality of the parliamentary work. I know you've given a priority to digital signatures. The government's work has already been greatly modernised with them and a system of this kind also comes in Parliament. Perhaps it is not about the Ministry, it is about the Bureau of Parliament, but I think that the time has come, Mr President, to modernise Parliament, and to be able to legislate more transparently and with greater ease, to see what is meant by a paper which comes with an amendment, a legislative improvement and, instead of looking on thousands of pages, to see on the spot what is changing exactly without any difficulty. I won't be delayed any longer. I would just like to close with a comment on the morning declaring the climate of consensus that went to be created, because in my opinion - and I think that was reflected in the Legal Council's opinion, which we have seen in the past few days - there was no reason to object to unconstitutionalism. In fact, at that time in Parliament, the majority were clear about the balance of this result. The Minister, in the climate of consensus, wanted to accept the proposal of counter-population, to accept for goodwill, as he said, the proposal to remove the word 'codification', although in our view it is a code, he has it all in one, even though all these scattered ones finally enter a text. Goodwill to make that word out. And the rapporteur for counter-population comes up to the Step, he is ironing our rapporteur, Mr Mela, is ironing Mrs Papadimitriou, he is ironing the Minister. This is SYRIZA. Even in the climate of consensus, even in what we show good will to agree on in things in which we all have reason and aim to agree, you come with irony, with insults to dynamism. Let us leave this behind, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u210	What is the staff? I didn't hear any names being mentioned. A review of your position made. However, you have the floor for a minute, because I might be...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Mr Colleague, there was no irony. What you probably did not understand, because you may have been missing from the committees, is the beginning of our process of objections to the formality of codification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u212	I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u213	And we didn't say so, and you didn't do us any favor. The House's Scientific Service told you that it's not codification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u214	That's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u215	So it would be nice, before you speak and turn to the opposition to look at your hump and correct the mistakes and return to the rules of good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u216	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u217	Let's close this thing. I will give the floor to the Minister of Digital Governance, Mr. Kyriakos Pierakakis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. "Ladies and honourable Members, the census of the public buildings has not yet been achieved, because no public service has been able to provide me with accurately the information I have sought." The date of this statement was January 16, 1953, and the then Minister for Public Works, Constantine Karamanlis, was the then Minister for Public Works. This problem has been healed. Of course, healed a few decades later, but one can think of it - and today we have all discussed it - so many problems still pending. We've healed someone, they're being cured some time, but most of them are still pending. Some procedures that are more daily, some procedures that are more sensitive. In a sense, however, that is precisely what you want, if you want, the core of the targeting, of the ministry's strategy, he is the core of the targeting and of this draft law: to make the state function well, to make the state work properly. Fourteen months after the government's programme statements, I think it is right time to make an assessment, where we have been, and what has happened in recent months. Gov.gr has been a reality for six months. It started with five hundred public services, which already existed, with great value and only in the concentration, because it is considered the best good practice of the European Union as well and because philosophically we must always give the feeling that the state is one and that one ought to work. Six months later, the services are six hundred fourteen. A great many new services have been added. Over a million four hundred and responsible declarations, genuine signature services, four hundred thirty thousand civic and licensed certificates, five hundred fifty thousand entries in intact recipes with about four million recipes, eighty-four thousand entries in kindergartens, eighty-five thousand temporary driving licences, three hundred and eighty thousand visits to the Digital Academy of Citizens. The JEPs and ADPs first introduced teleconferencing conferences on some things that cannot be automated, quickly digitized. That's where the teleconferencing came in. If you want, it has given us a good cause and the juncture we live on. We have said it many times that the coronary, the pandemic acted as a digital accelerator and the loose end made it necessary. The JEPs, therefore, already provide over fifty services in this way. The ADP has started with one, providing a keyword, but the intention, as far as I know, and its commander is to add a lot of other new services to it. More broadly, however, there have also been many changes in procedures. The birth - making process was simplified, as we had to go to four or even five different services. It's all happening in the maternity hospital now. In the loss of life we have said that the processes were much more and most of them have already been digitised. As long as one gets into the gov.gr and see as to the loss of life how many of these processes can now be done with some click of the mouse and if you like, that is the elementary state has to do to people who, apart from bureaucracy, have big issues of their own. The teleconferencing has entered the public service. We took the tool that already existed, the e-Presence, from the old ETF, the ETF and we generalised it. This was about the bilinguals of the universities and we generalised it for the entire public sector. We started digitising and procedures, which do not honor us as a state that they existed. The specific demands of the EEAS are such an example, therapies, therapies, psychotherapies. Thousands of families, children in intervention, and their parents had to go every month to the EOPY. It was our basic duty and that is to solve it, but that is again what I say is one of the many things that still have to be solved. All these cumulative procedures are just the beginning of a building, the gov.gr building, which should ultimately end up in something that will be almost complete, that is, at the end of what we often describe as the Estonian model. In Estonia everything is electronic, except for marriage, divorce and property purchase. That's where they vote electronically. This is not our case, but in any case as a compass, not a map, this process shows up - down - where we have to go and how many other things to do. We mentioned in the programme statements that the 5G spectrum auction will take place before the end of 2020. It will begin in the next few days, perhaps even by the end of this week. We said this auction would be done in an innovative way and in an innovative way. I would also like to point out that if I am not mistaken, Greece is certainly one of the few countries that had not done it, which did not take it later because of the pandemic, if not the only one. Innovation was about establishing the Faithful Fund. It's a very simple conception. The arrest is that in 5G, we must not just stand on the frequencies, we must not just stand on the auction, but we must see the financial footprint. So the innovation here is how the auction will fill the market. For 25% of the auction revenues we discussed with our partners and despite the existing commitments, it was decided to create a special fund that would turn the money back to the Greek economy, investing in start-up businesses, investing in small and medium-sized enterprises, which would simply have to have the following feature, to be linked to the 5G. In other words, their services, per se, will probably not be telemedicine services - I say, for example, telemedicine services, things that have to do with the autonomous driving, innovations that today - I have had the opportunity to say to the committees - if we start to call them, they will be imagining science. And they will be imagining scientific imagination twice - and it will be inappropriate - given that we still have too many loose ends to resolve, as is the fact that we are not yet paying the full pensions as a whole. And that's something that's started to be solved and solved, but it's clear that it's a huge loose end that doesn't help us build the structure in relation to what's going to happen next. I'm continuing with the identification strategy. The identification strategy has to do with how one proves that he is. How does one prove digitally and decentralized to be Kyriakos Pierracakis or anyone else? We traditionally use our identity. Our identity is, if you want, a remnant, the Greek identity of other decades. Looking at what other countries have done - Estonia here again is a good example - new identities will be created in Greece, which will be available. The competition "run" by the Ministry of Citizen Protection and will be available in less than two years. They will include digital signatures, care that did not exist in previous ID treatments, including digital application. The aim is, in the end, to build a digital infrastructure, a safety lock, so that one can have access to increased digital services, in a room that we will constantly fill with new services. And, of course, here is the strategy of the single number, the number of staff as we say. Again unfinished, self-evident unfinished. In fact, it has been said to a great extent by most of the parties in Parliament, if not by all the parties in this House, by variations in how it should be done, but it goes without saying. A number, not many, and in that sense we are moving on with this draft law. Of course, within the fourteen months we had to deal with many more, some expected and some extraordinary. We had to deal with all the pandemics and in that sense a lot has been done with the operation of the Ministerial Council. Now, the Ministerial Council, the Secretary General, operates with digital signatures on our phones. In the case of bills, MSGs, legislative acts, PSFs are voted decentralised. Greece came out of list 301 for the trafficking of illegal software. In 13033 during the pandemic, the OECD and the relevant Community Commissioner, Mrs Westager, welcomed the last week as a digital innovation. The National Government Security Authority has been staffed and started publishing recommendations and intervening beneficially in the systems as well, gaining additional protection and given that we have too many old systems to solve and intervene. And, of course, we have set for the first time the country's critical infrastructure and started working with these structures. New major IT projects began to be auctioned. HRMS is such an example. And to say in this respect, because the digital organograms were discussed, HRMS is the system of human resources of the Greek State, which, as soon as it is completed, will include de facto de facto all human resources. So this debate is obviously under way, but in any case we are completely open, as we have said, to every good idea from wherever it comes. The National Encoding Portal was negotiated and of course most of the projects are in front of us. The new package that will be given to our country by the European Union appallingly increases the financial possibilities, and this has, in fact, intervened in the design of the digital transformation book. As a country we are generally good at strategic texts, we are perhaps not as good at some things as in how these strategy texts are translated into practice. We have made the decision to include specific projects, to be a boulevard, to be something to which one can agree and to be a very specific strategic plan, and that is why all these months an effort has been made to capture specific projects and concrete interventions. And the fact that the recovery fund has emerged has increased the usefulness of this planning, because we are much more ready at this time in these discussions. Within two months it will have been published and will obviously be presented to all political parties for their comments and additions. As we have said, digital transformation is something to which wider consensus must be produced. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative text you have in your hands comes to supplement this strategy and take it one step further. To note in relation to what happened this morning in relation to the name of the bill that we do not aspire this draft law to career as a title. We aspire to be a career as an effective reform that will change the landscape in public administration for the benefit of the citizen. And because in this sense the code word for computers has meaning other than for lawyers, we also told the committees that we believe that this law is the necessary legislative software to enable the country to change page. It adjusts old provisions. Laws are dynamic texts. Hammurabi's code was in a kingdom. All the other texts are adapted in the future. And this code, this law, is probably, in a very short time, going to change - either from it or from another government - and will be adapted to the future, and it is a practicable one, because for us, as we stressed from the first day, this was an act of recognition. I want to say this again because I consider it an act of political bravery by the majority and the government. We must recognise each other's work in infrastructure. We must step on each other's work to do his job properly, so that he can continue the work and build on them. So all these systems, because the auctions are too slow, they are proclaimed by one government, the competition ends by another government, the project is completed, since it is created by a third, possibly, government, and that is self-evident. We must invest in it and we must continue in it. These works must be dressed with acceptance. It is self-evident that the country will be able to move forward. This draft law therefore contains two categories of intervention. The first and the largest, I would say, is the resolution of the past. There, for example, we place the strategy of the 'white areas' of television. This strategy had started earlier. But we intervened on how it works, because there were bureaucratic failures in planning - expected in part - and at the moment we were perhaps broadening it up almost throughout the territory, but, as a result, it was possible for ministerial decisions to come out, since the 'white areas' are confirmed by the EBRD to pass through this system. And to tell what the technical problem was, there was earlier the care in some villages to make an application in the JEPs, for example, for a "DIGEA" transponder and we found that the system blocked and could not go to pick up a pay-TV dish from failure of planning the program. We solved this, but we decided that the procedure had to be thoroughly simplified, and this is now to be done in a few weeks' time either with zero-cards from gov.gr or with a paper in the JEPs. And it is very useful not only for remote areas, where it goes without saying that this project should have gone ahead, but also for many areas within our country that do not have a television signal as it should. There are, of course, many other things in the resolution. The Personal Number I mentioned before is one digital signature. All Greeks will get with the new digital signature. There had to be clear rules governing how digital signatures work and, in the medium term, in other projects, the SAD or the Central Union of Chambers of Chambers that will receive many businesses, many digital signatures will be shared, not only by the projects that some might have started before us, but also by the options that will be made on our day. Aggregating these will give many digital signatures to the state, the private sector. So that's what he wanted, if you want, very good legislative rules so that it can work. We therefore come to legislate on both the stamps and the signatures and on the 'citizen' which was mentioned before and in the public service. Because in the end what we should do in public services is not what we have done today. We have begun, with the gov.gr, the delegation is issued and the responsible statement, but it is a first good step. What would be perfect? It would be to be able to press a button and tell which public service this thing, this text, this intervention you want to reach. So the 'citizen' door will come to do this, because each one of us will have an individual and every public office of its own, and in the end will talk to each other. He wants to build. We're ready. We'll start with the JEPs. It'll be a first step. In the end it must be diffused throughout the state. As in all of this, the devil always hides in the detail of application. Laws, approaches, and even computer codes are a good first step, but in the end everything is judged in their implementation. Now, as far as the whole resolution of these digital outstandings is concerned, we are basically talking about things that apply in many other countries. Finally, we need to see them here. At last, because we owe it. We owe it to the employee who has no time to leave his job. We owe it to the parent who has no place to let his child go to the guise. We owe it to the disabled person that the state should show him that he is a good person to him or her. We owe it to the Greek President to strengthen his umbilical cord with his homeland. It's a debt. At the same time, however, there is another big debt, the opening up of the future. In this draft law there are provisions on ‘computer cloud’. Non-qualified computers may consider this terminology a little strange. If you want, it is the basic infrastructure necessary for cybersecurity, to be able to have state data somewhere focused safely, taking very good infrastructure, than to have them on dozens of servers everywhere scattered in the public without always knowing where it is. The way we develop this strategy is innovative and pro-investing. Even more innovative, of course, is the way 5G develops. In particular, because some individual comments have been heard, some with a fearful one - let me say - and with a conspiracy of a conspiracy, we must respond. The technological answer I would give is that the 5G frequencies are already used. The base frequency of 5G is 700 MHz, currently the ‘DIGEA’ frequency. If he's in trouble, then some people have to turn off the TV. Another frequency, the 3.5 GHz rural networks. As far as radiation is concerned, two thousand six hundred antennas a year are controlled, four were above the radiation limit last year, the Greek Atomic Energy Commission. And from there on, what are the limits on radiation in Greece, are the international limits? Oh, no. We have taken the international limits and have legislated to move at lower levels, to 70% of these limits, sometimes to 60%. But the political response to this is that one or two do not do three, they never do three and it does not discuss whether they do three. More broadly, because this debate involves a possible literary reference, we are not in Orwell's world. It's not about Greece, it's about Orwell's world. Maybe it's about Kafka's world. That is precisely why this unbearable bureaucracy has to be faced by our fellow citizens, all of us, together, and to resolve it, because that is not political. It's a long one, it's everyone's responsibility, everyone's obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, a great deal has been done these months. It seems that much has been done, but it is not about the scope and depth of the project, because in fact many are few. It's too little. It's very little in relation to the loose end. This reflects the great outstandingness that exists, because what has actually happened is very little in relation to what has to be done. I started this talk with a finding that Constantine Karamanlis had made in 1953. Obviously I do not claim that what is described in this finding, in the context of that time, is identical with the present one. Indeed, we are not here today to talk about public works on the terms of post-war Greece, nor does Greece have exactly the same problems and needs as then. There is, however, an important ratio for it to be done at that time. It is an underground dialect of post-war Greece and Greece today in terms of the delay, compared to others, in terms of the outstandingities with the past that need to be resolved, in terms of the challenges that come and in terms of how we need to move quickly and effectively. Then we did it. We did it by mistakes, contradictions and contradictions, but in the end we succeeded. And this is reflected not only in the fate of the nation. It's also reflected in the family stories of all of us. We can do this again, having spent ten years in a major economic, existential and identifiable crisis and now facing new challenges, health, economic and national. In view of all this, I urge you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Please until the Step is ready, I will call on the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Ragosi, to speak for twelve minutes. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how I can avoid starting this speech from something that - perhaps we have had the controversy with Mr Petsa or with other ministers, but I think you have also been informed - that happened today, which not only must be noisy and worrying to us, I would say to an absolute degree, but I think it really must land us and above all land the government. I am referring to the developments we have at the State Hospital of Nice. In fact, there the medical staff - which is what gives a lasting battle, superhuman in recent months - has come to raise hands up. I don't know what doctors' announcement is yet. I don't know if it's been published. It has become known that two very critical staff from the Hospital of Nice have resigned, which I would remind you - for those colleagues who come from non-Attica elections - have resigned from one of the main reference hospitals for the management of the Coronovirus, a hospital which, at the moment, is, in fact, putting the government in no other position than its responsibility. This government - I will admit, it is not the first in history - has a tendency to keep calling it a good one. We have already heard Mr Petsa say to us: 'Why don't you tell us what we did for the work that we did in Evia and Karditsa'. Good, of course, they deserve all those officials, nurses, medical staff, firefighters, people of civil protection who exaggerate themselves to fulfil their duties. But good government, why is she doing her job? Good for the government - and I am now referring to the Ministry of Digital Policy's political leadership - why is it implementing laws? Why does it implement projects aimed at serving the citizen? And, yes, indeed, who does not want the state to function properly? But the state cannot function properly when the government does not legislate properly. For example, we have had this incomprehensible attempt to establish for the first time the concept of "fake news" and "hoax" in the legislative process and to baptise a code that is not a code. Because code is not just a name issue. A bill to qualify as a code based on the Constitution first, must be the result of a scientific committee and not of a political leadership. This is the key feature of the codes: that a scientific committee is set up and this is working on codification of legislation. In addition, a state should propose the right legalization to work properly. This bill is coming without the opinion of the Authority on the protection of personal data. I will as soon as I get off the Step to the secretariat, to share with my colleagues, the 'GENERAL'. It is inaccurate to say that you will be waiting for the opinion of the authority, to judge how it should be and what exactly it should be posted from now on, on the basis of the changes that you make, on the basis of the personal number. Because there is an opinion from the Privacy Authority and it was received - from us back then - five months before the draft law was introduced into Parliament. Not to come a bill with such personal data provisions and not to have an opinion of the personal data protection authority. I think we need to talk a little bit about the "tacieer." And I would like to make a very good point now to the Members of the New Democracy. On their own - I think the State Secretary, if I kept it properly - gave the evidence. What did they say? They said that by 2019, we had five hundred electronic services - if I am not right, Minister, Minister, Secretary-General, correct me - which were given to the citizens and for their electronic service. You're a five-and-a-half service! These five hundred one services were made in the last fourteen months sixteen fourteen. In other words, another hundred and thirteen electronic services were added. Right this far? I ask: Is this on its own as a given conclusion to what draws us? Does it lead us first to conclude that one can triumph and think he can claim that e-government is taking place today in our country, because this bill is coming to the vote in the Greek Parliament? When you yourself admitted that five hundred electronic services were already available to the citizens by 2019. And another hundred thirteen, remarkable, very important for the citizens were added. Who doubts? Who questioned? Who issued a notice? Our Head of Division, Mr. Katsis, Mr. Pierrakakis, as long as you announced the additional electronic services given to the citizens, did he issue any announcement to accuse you of that? Never. Which one of us in the Greek Parliament has said something against all those who have been taking place lately? But now there is a second one which is more important than that, more important for the New Democracy colleagues. Mr Buga, if you please, give a little attention to this question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u221	I've always watched you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u222	These hundred thirteen Electronic Services on which they were based and were able to become a reality? Where? Today you bring this bill. If today electronic governance started in our country, how could you in the last fourteen months have acted on these hundred thirteen important Electronic Services? You couldn't. And that's the very great truth you're hiding, that you don't have this bravery to recognize. Because that is what you are avoiding and that is what you tried to avoid, baptizing this draft code. Why all these electronic services, because they have very serious legal consequences, have very serious legal implications for these documents which have been handled electronically in the last fourteen months - as in the previous fourteen months, of course, the five hundred ones - have become possible, you have been able to do so, they have gained legal power for one single reason: why the Greek Parliament in 2011 voted for n.3979 for e-government. And you, instead of telling the Greek people, what do you come and do for the first time in the Greek Parliament? In my humble opinion - I may be wrong - I would hope that there will be no similar examples in the past. If I'm wrong, I'll fix it. I think I'm not mistaken. So what do you come here and do? For the first time, everything you have done without the law you bring today. So why have you done it? Because there was a n.3979. You come along with this law and you remove it from the country's legislative charter. If this is not legislatively irreversible, you tell me what is legislatively unreasonable. Because minimum parliamentary and legislative respect for the lengthyness of this state would impose on you these laws which are not dispersible provisions, but are comprehensive legislative frameworks to keep them as an eyewitness and, of course, to improve them. Of course, wherever you need to amend them. Of course, as long as you can develop them. However, all the legislative initiatives taken in the Greek Parliament, which were of this nature, have not abolished such fundamental legal frameworks, that is, what you are doing today. So, ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing all this time? You avoid telling the Greek people that, thanks to the work that all previous governments have done since 2017-2018, as well as the legislative framework that existed since 2010 and 2011 you can and, yes, you do these works. And after you, the next ones will do more. It is not a question of speeding up e-government, nor is it a matter of communication. And let me tell you a great truth. I wish you could understand it. I'm sure you'll all understand it in the process. It is another truth that arises from current communication and another truth that exists and always remains alive in here. And from this point of view some very important conclusions come to light. It is not a matter of communication, and it is not a question of speeding up e-government. It's a matter, first, of digital culture. Secondly, it's a matter of digital ethos. These are very crucial elements in order to be able to bear a strategy for e-government. See an example, 112. What's 112? It's an app you took her ready. Mrs Gerovali told you in her speech. That's right, and you've developed it. Has 112 evolved in the hands of a political leadership and a government operating without rules, without specifications, without protocols, instead of the big, magic wand many times in a deadly problem? Yeah, that happened. Because 112 doesn't suffice to have it on his buttons. You must have behind 112 the digital culture, the rules, the specifications, the protocols. And when you don't have these things and work old-fashioned, as your government operates, in Evia 112, you never send it to Karditsa an hour before it becomes the big evil and right, you send it to the Ionian in time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I won't need much more time, Mr President. Nor can a government be tempted to take the big step forward in e-government issues, when worthwhile foreign scientists, teachers who also differ in their area are forced to resign within a few months of their taking up their duties. You, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, propose, vote in favour and flatter this bill a few weeks after the resignation of Professor Dermitzakis from the National Research Council. He is a scientist who came unpaid to offer his homeland and forced him to leave the research, technology and innovation badly. I will only conclude with one point which my colleagues have made, because as you can see, I have not mentioned any of what - I think - in a comprehensive and comprehensible way, and Mr Katsis and Mrs Gara and the committees have also been quite rightly proposed today. I would add, however, a little bit of my opinion about this inspiration you have as a government to create this 5G fund. Apart from the fact that, as Mr Katsi quite rightly said, it is unheard of to build a fund that will manage millions and let the four of the committee's opinions be identified with the four that constitute the majority of the board of directors, there is another question. Mr Pierracakis, you are actually doing a "New Democracy Bank" at 5G. If all the Ministries do so, all the Ministers - since all the Ministries have revenues from somewhere - and each Minister creates a fund of his own, for example, the Minister for Rural Development to keep a fee - I do not know what else he can keep - to build a fund for financing livestock policies, the Minister for Infrastructure to do something like this, is that a general policy for the country? Because a choice you make to a ministry if you want to understand what extent you're on the right path you have to see with your mind if you generalize where that leads. We've been telling you since the first day that since the Development Bank exists, if you want 25% to keep it for 5G investments, it's in the hands of the Development Bank. Do you want another Ministry of Finance to give it to a "B" direction? Yes, to do so under the responsibility, guidance, supervision, operation of the Development Bank's experts. I conclude by saying that you really shouldn't have decided to commit this low-level smuggling. Because, in particular, the world of information technology, the world of new technologies, the world of innovation, the new generation does not understand them. And - if you want - to say a little heavy: he hates all that. He thinks we all have to build on each other. And we have to tell the truth. And you're not telling the truth when you're talking about - supposedly bravery. Because bravery would be all these new provisions coming as supplements to the laws that have already been passed. Here, you are voting for the European Accessibility Directive twice validated to the Greek Parliament in 2019. I think we all know there's hybrids, but there's Nemesis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u223	I shall give the floor for a short speech for three minutes to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga. I shall then give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu. Then we will continue with the MPs and the Minister will be closed. Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to Mr Ragosi's speech. Honestly, I have the feeling that he has wrongly searched both the Minister and the Members of the New Democracy, but also the speaker. For all of us, particularly the Minister, who preceded Mr Ragosi's step, said that this bill, not only does not abolish, but, on the contrary, is building on good legislative practice, improves the existing legislative framework and creates a more friendly legal environment in order to achieve what we all call the country's 'digital transformation'. Therefore, Mr President, not only did we not come to abolish your own legislative initiatives, which, of course, were right and proper, but we are also improving by making the necessary reforms. Let me also tell you my personal view. The good legislative practices which you have started - and you are obviously referring to your own legislative past - would be better known if you were to accept, even abusive or over-represented, the term 'code' originally in the bill. Why? Because that would give the impression that this is a coherent system of existing provisions. If the code had remained and you had not reacted to it, I think that it would have improved what you said and none of us refused. Therefore, your criticism on this point, in other words, at the point of procedure and good legal practice, is unjust and unsatisfactory. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u226	I have already announced Mr. Kegeroglu, Mr. Ragosi. Secondly, I do not understand why you are asking for the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u227	Just two words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u228	Some things have been said by you. I heard a mild Mr. Buga answer. Excuse me, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u229	Not a minute. Mr. Buga, I want to make two clarifications. Firstly, in this bill we will shortly be voting on, see the provisions that have been abolished. The framework laws that I mentioned are being repealed. We know them very well. Here is the parliamentary and legislative history. These laws are being repealed. Second, you're talking about the code. Good. Did we say no to code, code based on constitution and law? Let Mr Pierracakis bring here, as it is necessary, a legislative initiative to set up a Special Legislative Committee specifically for the Code of Digital Governance, and we will certainly vote for this, but this is a code, not a make-up situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, where Hybris is manifested, Nemesis follows. In 2011 the PASOK government introduced the social economy and entrepreneurship into Greece with Law 4019, which was a full institutional framework. In 2016 the government of SYRIZA came and changed only one word. He added to the'social economy' and the word 'convergence'. The whole law was the same. And he came to protest today why he copied it, of course, in a bad way, by the Government of New Democracy. That's it! Unless Mr. Ragus doesn't consider himself in then SYRIZA. But I come to you, Minister. We had noted from the outset that this legislative initiative could be based on the existing legislative provisions. And it's based on her essence. It's a reality. It could not be done differently. It could, with this initiative, upgrade the institutional framework, so it could also improve the laws, such as those. But what you do not do today is that while all this has been overcome, while we need a leap in the future, while we need to give more quality and not more, you do not do so and you do not satisfy this need for the economy and society. I'm specific. You said open.gov. Yes, you have taken another very important step, which was certainly imposed by the developments and the crisis and accelerated the process. It is what we say that the good side of bad crises is sometimes an opportunity. It was imposed by the things. But come on, Minister, let's see that you haven't dealt with the quality of this whole story in so many months. Let's get in to open.gov. I think you have in front of you to see. To enter open.gov, if you want to enter the “Agriculture - Animal husbandry” service, enter the service that has to do with the application for the registration of prescriptions for agricultural medicinal products. What are we going to find out once we're connected to the minagric? The reading of the triangle at the top of the page says: 'not safe'. Minister, really? Introduce to the official public the citizen and user to unsafe tour and connection? It explains below the transmitter that the connection is not secure and should not enter sensitive information. What cybersecurity are we talking about? It is not enough, therefore, to include many services, but to have security and quality. I think it's a little contradictory. I said in my first speech and you did not answer - you are the same ministry - that Mr Papapas had published a project on digital agriculture of 31 million. We didn't know what was going on with this. If you have information, tell us. Neither did you, nor did you, today, make EUR 80 for the safety certification of minagric. It says the people "every time the cherry is lost from a drachma of pepper". You know that? Don't say too much. I heard you say a lot of verbalism and stories. Be sure that if you do well in history and the citizen tell you good, but if you say a thousand and don't do one that is worthy to the citizen, I don't think you will have the same result. I conclude by calling on you to respond to three - four things I have told you from the Step of the House. I'm talking about titles. Will you recommend a binding provision for the public to respond by email to a specific time? I didn't tell you in a day or two or in a week but in fifteen days. Half of what's in the paper process. Why don't you do it? Obligation on the citizen only? Is this a one-way email? The public's free? What are you going to do with the process log? You will create one, you will make use of all the others or you will build one more to exist. What will you do with the open data? I didn't have time to say it in my speech. Since 2017 they have been informed. If the citizen today wants to enter the data at the National Public Administration Centre, he doesn't have access. Why? Where did this thing end up? You're still stumbling up the previous ones. This is the poorly understood continuity of the state. I'm afraid so. What are you going to do with the digital organization? You described him. But why didn't you join him here so he could end up with every employee and the box he says what he's doing? And, of course, all this can be interconnected. Finally, will you withdraw the provision of the Faith Fund to the supreme court? Will you withdraw it so that it belongs directly to the Greek State? Previously, they had created the superstition. They had also assigned the archaeological sites to the superstition. That's where you got the inspiration and put the name Phaistos, Mr. Pierracakis? I'm asking you. Did you put the name Phaistos from there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u232	Lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u233	We did a whole race here with the archaeologists of all of Greece, to retrospect the government and make a decision to withdraw the archaeological sites from the superstition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u234	Lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u235	You're a liar and you look. You've been alive after all. You're a liar and you look. Aren't you Raguss? Well, I wouldn't talk to you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u236	Please, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u237	I hadn't seen. I thought it was Mr. Raguss. I wouldn't talk to you at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u238	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu. We don't have a watch anymore. There's been a involvement in the clocks by your voice. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u239	The amendments highlight the great deficit that I have told you. There can't be a setup for teleworking for two weeks. The Ministry of Labour had to have worked out an institutional framework. It should have created conditions for the security that has to do with both rights and obligations so that we can actually promote work remotely, but at the same time ensure workers' rights. We cannot vote on the amendment on how you chose to hire the officials. Why do you have allergy to ASP? Can you explain it to us? Go to an allergenologist to give you the corresponding medicine but do not avoid ASA. That is no longer the case, and then we say that we respect the independent authorities and the work that has been done and everything that has been done in this place. Why is it that everyone you want to put out the window or even on the door? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u240	We have a connection to the timer. There are five colleagues left. The articles to be voted on by the rapporteurs are too much. It's two hundred and thirty-five - thirty-seven with the hotel room and it's going to take a lot of time. I wanted to ask my next colleagues to limit time, not just to be consistent in time, because that does not make it easier for us. Anyway, I'm making an appeal. I can't force anything. The time I take will be seven minutes. But, in any case, you also facilitate the whole process that has begun since the morning. You know what? All Members of Parliament are talking this time. We never used to talk. Those who are older know it. I don't know if the clock works. Also, you come up and we're wasting time. Can I say something more from my personal experience? The image of Parliament on the stand is much better than when you come up, because time is wasted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u241	Depends on who's speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u242	Here, Mr. Boutsikaki, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say first of all that I really feel proud today. I think that especially the people who come from my generation and younger people feel even greater pride, because today, more than five hundred services will be provided by the state from one single platform, from one single place. It was really awkward for us so many years that we were the pigeons in the digitisation of the state, in the use of the Internet, in the use of new technologies across Europe. We're a country that really doesn't miss anything, she doesn't miss minds. However, because of the anachronistic policies, especially over the last four years, these minds have been forced to leave abroad, many of them in any case. Over the last decade, the internet in our country has remained slower, more expensive than most countries not only in the European Union, but also throughout the world. We all recognize your efforts, Minister. But it is a matter that really needs to be prioritised. A consumer cannot pay in Greece the Mobile Internet 12 per GB when, for example, he pays only 43 minutes of the euro and in Turkey 70 minutes of the euro for a corresponding service. I have also recently tabled a question on this issue, which I attach to the last minutes along with the European Commission report on this subject. I do not of course have any impression that anything has happened about SYRIZA, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, it is more obvious that you have created a ministry at that time, the Department of Digital Policy, only to make a policy against new technologies and of course only to manipulate the means. We all remember what you did with television permits and pastures. You dreamed of a soviet, but, fortunately, for our democracy, you were stopped by the Council of State. In fact, what procedures have you and what have we made available for the last year to the citizens for the last four years? For the government of SYRIZA the elements of the European Union are relentless and speak for themselves: Last in Europe in terms of the digital indicators of economy and society, the last of them in connectivity, human capital, the last in use of the Internet, the last incorporation of new technologies, the last in digital public services. While all the countries of Europe have taken rapid steps in the past five years, we are now being called upon to cover the distance not from the first, but from the European Union's average. That is why I will also table the relevant indicators in the Minutes. In order to speak more technically now, we are today incorporating all relevant legislation into a single text in the area of digital governance and putting in place a modern framework in order to resolve decades' issues. Of course, we incorporate European open data and digital accessibility directives, which the SYRIZA Government has never done. It's known that they didn't have time. This bill, whatever you say, is a model of good legislation, is the foundation for the state's digital transition to the 21st century. Investors say it, the institutions say it, the whole society recognises it. You are in vain looking to find something to say, but in the end neither can you follow a particular line. Is it good, or is this bill bad? Ladies and gentlemen, today we are also raising 'GENERAL' and strengthening transparency. We shield the services from cyber attacks. We create the National Procedure Register, where public sector procedures will be reflected. There we will monitor developments and take constant care of their further improvement. We are legislating on the personal number, a section on the identification of natural persons, with a view to making it the only figure that the citizen needs to make his or her dealings with the public in the near future. In this way, we save time, money, simplify procedures and improve the quality of procedures and actions for the benefit of citizens, workers and businesses. Today, of course, we are also legislating 5G, a technology with incomplete speeds and applications. We also create the Faithful Fund with an investment fund for its development. This technology is the basis for ensuring Internet access for all and to develop new applications, applications that will change the daily lives of citizens at all levels. We are doing what in the past would fantasize a science fiction scenario, such as telemedicine, with the conduct of not only diagnosis, but also distance intervention, autonomous driving, construction of even entire buildings with 3D printers. These are just a few examples. From the revenues that will result from the tender for the administration of the 5G radio frequencies, we add 25% to the Special Faith Fund. The minister analyzed it earlier. So we understand the cooperation between the state and society. In your own policy, ladies and gentlemen, you had only visions, goals and exhibitions of ideas without any result at all and, as our people say,'very oil, but from pancakes nothing'. With the Bible, therefore, we do not only envision objectives, but they have been studied and implemented by four hundred research projects, which have been decided upon by consultation with public administration, society and the market. All this happened in six months and not four and a half years. In conclusion, I would like to say that the state's digital transformation has been delayed many years and it is time to act. It is up to everyone here to vote in favour and to support the government in this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u244	The reason is Mr. Neocles Cretan, although Lakonas, from the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief and plural. A lot of interest and interest are seen in the field of digital transformation in our country, a digital transformation which, at last, does not try to advance developments in modern times, but leads to an example of the rest of Europe. That's what we did. This draft law gives a great opportunity to reform public administration. The purpose of the establishment and operation of the Ministry of Digital Governance was to organise several different overlapping services which created malfunctions and delays in the work produced. The words ‘driving’ and ‘delay’ in the field of modern digital technologies and services do not fit. They are not consistent with modern times. Today we need speed, flexibility, creativity. I consider the Ministry's course to be absolutely successful so far, and it is assumed that this is a catalytic role that the will and the know-how of his leadership plays in running and introducing Greek society into the modern digital age. A lot of things I wanted to say, the Minister mentioned them perfectly up-to-date. I would like to stay a little bit on the point that we have built these so-called 'white areas', which we have had quite a problem and have changed the law 4563. With this bill, we have increased the areas that will be able to receive Greek national television channels and, on the other hand, simplify and improve the procedures for the beneficiaries to be subject to the service. These are settlements mainly with a few permanent residents. It is a very important thing to do with our country. Some five hundred and twenty new 'white areas' are added, increasing the number of areas in the prefecture of 4563. This regulation has a particularly positive effect on my fellow citizens, the Lacones, and that is why I am referring to it. Ladies and gentlemen, every new initiative and new effort can be found in points that need to be improved in retrospect. That's normal. It is a practice that contains two components, recognition and improvement. But what is not normal and cannot be the subject of forgiveness is inertia, inertia, stagnation at a time that runs much faster than thought itself. In this context of speed and progress today, we are legislating and voting on this bill that lays the foundations for a new era in civil relations with the State, in the ability of the citizen to fulfil its obligations much easier, much more simpler, much faster. The Minister said that one government is starting, another is continuing, another is ending it. So what are we doing here? We are doing the self-evident ladies and gentlemen, which must be the points of convergence of all the political forces, because at the end of the day we all want the good of our country and today what the common good demands is to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u246	There was really a tranquil proof that you were a ladder. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis from New Democracy for seven minutes and prove that he is also a mess.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one is given. The fact is that citizens expect a lot, they expect a lot from the government, from the political system. With today's bill, the New Democracy Government has been bringing arrangements for modernising the Greek state, which the SYRIZA Government has not been able to bring for four and a half years! We are discussing today and we will vote by a large majority - I hope - a large bill and I mean not only in volume, but a large bill because it contains 232 articles. It is a great draft law that consolidates and updates 20 years of digital governance and Electronic Services provisions in a single text. It has been drafted diligently to eliminate the known problems of overlapping and conflicting arrangements on the same issues, causing malfunctions, delays, suffering and insecurity. After repeated delays and very late steps in digitising procedures and functions in the public sector, delays that, apart from the deterioration of the services provided, the New Democracy Government also had increased costs at a speed of pace, but in no case has it been hasty to lay strong foundations for the digital transformation of our country. We establish a true state, a perfect state, the establishment of the Ministry of Digital Governance to replace the Ministry of Digital Communications and Information Policy, the integrated portal of the Greek State through gov.gr, the effective implementation of innovative protocols and procedures to deal with the health crisis. Since 2018, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has stressed the central importance of digital governance for public administration reform and committed itself to creating a modern and effective state. And that's exactly what we're doing today: We respect our commitments in the light of the progress of the country and the service of the citizen. The introduction of the global fabric in 1991 has changed a great deal in the way we communicate, work, gathering information, which we are dealing with. In 1995, only 1% of the population in Greece and especially in the large urban centres had access to the Internet. Today this figure reaches 80%. Before the Internet came to our country in 1986, the operation of thousands of cash machines - and I would like to say, Mr President, because of my capacity - with the special tax memory of incorporation of VAT has led to the modernisation of the Ministry of Finance's computer centre which started to be equipped with computer systems. This is how the introduction of information technology in the field began, which resulted in the creation of the TAXIS after years. And even the first pilot tax was in my constituency, it was the DU Moschatos. And today we're talking about the 5G. And gentlemen of SYRIZA you may say what you want, but the New Democracy Government is moving fast and we are giving the opportunity to even the universities and research centres to move forward because we need to take steps quickly. We have an obligation to the new generation and we cannot make cheap policies when it comes to technology issues that will reduce costs, which will bring real progress, which will bring about speed. And if you search the internet for the 5G services provided, you'll see hundreds of services. The Minister said so before. Today's draft law, ladies and gentlemen, is central. I shall refer very briefly to the main points. There was an extensive debate on the committees as well, the bodies were placed, comments and comments were incorporated. It should be noted, however, that the Minister has created a special group that really deserves congratulations, because there has been a basic job. The 20-year-olds legislation was incorporated in this text. At the same time, we have and incorporate European Directive 2019/1024 plus new provisions that are the stepping-up of the modernisation of the public sector. It is established through the provisions of this bill that the Personal Number, a number unique to each citizen - not ten or more to identify the citizen - and for all his transactions with the public. This number applies to all developed countries. But here we play the courgette, ladies and gentlemen, as to whether it will be the AMCA, whether it will be the twelve-digit or ten-digit, etc. The only Personnel Number ensures ease in the service and handling of cases, security and, in particular, transparency. It will no longer be impossible for a citizen to be able to appear with many people through 'blacks' and legislative gaps. No more of these stories that some who knew at the expense of the Greek public. Personal Number enters a household. We will have real digital administration for the first time, electronic documents, digital signatures, digital stamps, compulsory communication between public bodies and services. It is not going to be what has been done so far, even for writing on the same institution, that the citizen should be looking between floors and offices of the same service. We will also have electronic protocols for the first time, compulsory electronic communication between public bodies. The citizen, however, has the possibility - and this is still the case for the citizen - to serve with his physical presence, if he of course wishes to do so. We also have the single electronic portal of public administration, the establishment of a digital governance register. That is what we will be voting on in a few minutes, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Furthermore, there are very important arrangements for areas outside television coverage, a problem of years since the start of digital television for which no solution had been found. So we are coming today to give a serious answer at last. With Article 99 - historical article - we remove the fax to the public. And I mention this, because this provision symbolises the end of a time and the beginning of the new era in practice, the era of transparency, speed, security, legality in public administration, the era that puts an end to the tails, paperwork, the suffering of all citizens and officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u248	And with that phrase to close, Mr Spankee. It's all said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u249	Wait a minute, Mr. President. In Part II we have provisions for the Electronic Communications Code. All issues relating to electronic communications are now regulated at European level. Mr President, there is a framework that promotes investment, protects the end-user in his trade, promotes competition, which is what we need, as the services provided are still poor and high prices. And that is what we will achieve with today's bill, because we facilitate the entry into the market of new companies, facilitate the development of networks and technologies, and simplify procedures for consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, state modernisation is here. We have waited for many years and today we are doing so. We are modernising public administration, because we respect every citizen, we modernise public administration, because we want investment, because we want new jobs. And through this bill, we put a strong foundation to move forward in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u250	And now I will give the floor to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Savva Snowides. Here, Mr Snowides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is really very important that someone be trustworthy. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy had a programme that prioritised the improvement of digital policy in Greece. It is also true that in any case, in addition to political goals, you should be able to choose the right people, so that they can implement these policies. We see here - and we do not have to say it, so society itself - that within a critical time stage, where we have three issues that are in red, that people are watching the improvement of the digital performance of Greece, which is very important. So the faces, and the Minister, but also the Undersecretaries and all the team working on them, seem to have been a proper choice of Mr. Mitsotakis who showed them confidence and they really show that they are performing. I want to remind you of the computer year of the 1980s that was very important. Informatics came, almost didn't touch Greece and went on. Other software at the Grevena Hospital, other software at the University of Athens, all scattered. From there on, questions in politics must be seen on the substance. Are we satisfied with developments so far? Because the relevant European indicators do not show that we are in a very good order. On the contrary, Estonia, which started in '92, had finished the job in 1996, did a digital state. We did not spend less money at the time than Estonia spent, but look at what positions we are. However, I do not want to go into this because they have been heard in a very specific way both on the part of the Ministry and on the part of colleagues. It is very important, therefore, that this law - I will not stick to whether it is a code or a law, it is a law - which deals with the whole issue. In fact, everyone will be able to get this little book that will exist and know all the laws governing anything digital in communication - it will be within a booklet - so that the last citizen can understand it and no longer have to be written'replaced Article 30(1)' and no one will understand anything. And it is very important to follow this tactic and the next change that will occur. And I will explain immediately why there needs to be a change in the short term. Because technological developments are rapid. They're so rapid that if we don't get to it, they'll come and cover us up like a big tsunami. These are technologies that come with the 'Industry 4.0', and we have not yet come to make our state operate effectively digitally. Were they jumped? Yeah. We started building a skyscraper, we arrived at the first floors, as we see, and today we are dealing with fast-track issues, perhaps for some and the COVID accelerator -19, if you like. I believe that the flow to the Ministry is very systematic and of course we are seeing jumps forward, jumps that make us proud. It is true that I was also anxiously awaiting this bill, because the 5G competition and all the others that are running are already on the air. There's money. 32 billion are coming mainly in these directions, such as the green economy and the digital economy, and from there we must be ready to absorb them. The framework laid down in this draft law that we will shortly be voting on is very good. It is very important now - I will not go into the matter of the articles of the law at all, because they have been analysed - to train people as well. One step was taken with the digital academy, where thousands of fellow citizens take us there. It is very important that we should be able to train our world so that digital illiterates can acquire sufficient digital education to be able to communicate as the Greek public must, and above all the citizen, have a hardship and, above all, a financial burden. It is important, too, to target the national register of procedures. This is something we need to do so that this story of the Greek public ends. The objectives began dynamically, ambitiously, twenty-two thousand central state powers. I believe that we will be able to achieve this very soon. At least in the essentials we have made too much leaps. Let's see what's coming. So it has been heard here that we should hang on to it and the information in relation to the environment or planning. Indeed, it is true that it will be done. It needs to be speeded up by other ministries, and the speed of new technologies must be drawn up by other ministries, as a matter of urgency, so that we can move forward. Another issue that will come soon, which certainly has to be considered by the Ministry because we discussed it, is the digital establishment plan of the public sector. In other words, we should be able to know in every structure of the Greek state, whether they are companies in which the State is involved or which are companies of the Greek State, who is also an umbrella on which all the procedures regarding the costs of the state will be hanged. So let's be reasonable. It's incomprehensible today - and this issue is resolved with this bill - to need three and a half months to get a visual fiber at home. In other words, things are solved simply and every day. When we run and we're happy with the 100 MBps, while in New York speed has broken every record, how are we going to compete with others? Politics is therefore judged by effectiveness. That is why there are indicators. I am glad that the Minister and the team working on this part ensure these indicators improve them and we will prove it. Greece is aiming, in addition to the green development that we will be pioneers, as they write valid magazines, in 2030, to be a pioneer in Industry 4.0, in new technologies, in the digitisation of the Greek state. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u252	And we close the list of MPs with Mrs. Friday Brysidou. By the time Mrs Graefe zu Baringdorf comes up, I would like to read a statement in this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade shall submit its reports: 1. On the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: A. ‘Decision of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Commercial Shipping of 6 December 2001 and B. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on Maritime Transport’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. On the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Management of the Republic of Albania for cooperation in the field of agriculture". Here, Mrs. Brysidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my introduction, I would like to express my support for our affected compatriots and praise, encouraging the service actors, but also for all the volunteers who have exaggerated me from zealously helped this difficult period. It's not enough to perform your service when there's a crisis. He needs more than that. This has been done and every time with such behaviour we can have positive results. There was an unfavourable period. We're all sad about everything that's happened. However, things have been handled in the best possible way by the responsible and the service actors. Of course, we should always be ready and predicted in time both the municipalities and the regions all those projects that will protect us from such situations. E-government is a great fund to which the government and the opposition are examing. A responsible government must look at the problems of citizens and, accordingly, find solutions to help citizens. And what are our country's problems? The major problems are the economic problems we have as a country. In recent years there have been problems with the coronary and citizens must be avoided assembled. Of course, there are many years of trouble for citizens behind a number of services for a document, for a regularization, for a public procedure. There is also the great capital of pensions that only anyone who is close to the citizen knows that it is truly regrettable that the partisans of life have been afflicted for too many years to get their pensions. The fact that he was delaying and delaying and once and two and three years does not just mean suffering, but sometimes it is also a matter of life, an issue of opportunities, a matter of great and important things that are not achieved. These major problems can be solved by digital transformation. Many of these problems can be solved and we must look at them in the face and solve them. A responsible opposition, particularly an opposition recently in the government and which has worked and seen the problems, and it also saw that some of them were unable to solve them, and the citizens continued to be afflicted, must when attempts are made to resolve them, if it does not allow her to praise, at least to make a criticism of this kind that helps to make things better and to make the right decisions. Today, the bill has been explained in writing by many colleagues. I don't want to get far on the individual issues. I would like to say, however, that it is a big chapter that gives our country the opportunity to go forward, to take the lead, because because of the economic crisis we have always followed and always in Europe, and worldwide we have been a little backwards. Now, however, here we do not need a heavy industry to use any other methods that we do not have, we can do such organisation, we can produce work, we can export work and we can honour all Europe and the whole world. We can also earn financially through these processes, because time will be gained by the citizens, money will be earned by the respective ministries and we can produce and extract work and earn money through this production of the project. It is also an opportunity for our citizens not to be troubled and to be able to resolve dozens of issues by ensuring a number and not four numbers that we should have on our block, because where to remember both the ID card and the ABM and all that is needed to do from the simplest, to the most complex process. I also want to praise the Ministry and the government as a whole for a concern which may not seem so important, but for border areas, for rural areas, it is important. It is important for the white areas, for the television signal to which not all citizens can access. You should know that in the isolated villages it is of great importance. It's a matter of communication. It's a matter of information. It's a matter of entertainment. At the same time, there are equal opportunities available to all children, because through the information they can also learn about the issues of their work and about the opportunities that all the children of Greece have. The bill is very important. She's been working a lot. In recent times, many steps have been taken and I would like to encourage the Minister and all the staff to continue this work, because we need it for Greek citizens, for our country needs it, and through this process, there will be things that we could not do under other conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u254	And we thank Mrs. Brysidou. I give the floor to the Minister to close today's long sitting, where they spoke with forty fellow Members and their parliamentary representatives. I sincerely want to thank everyone for the very good course of today's debate. Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after eleven - if I am not mistaken - hours of discussion on thirty-two articles and limited amendments, I think that matters are now exhausted. We've discussed a lot of approaches. We've discussed a lot of details. But I think we also want to keep a message as the government's political leadership. Many differentiations have been heard, despite the fact that a wider consensus is expressed in the spirit of the bill. I would like to say that for us, the best criticism is practical criticism. That was the spirit of the mandate given by the Prime Minister to us at the beginning. We thought there had to be another ministry. And instead of criticising it, we made another ministry. Just in this spirit, as the Bible will be presented to all political parties for their comments, I would like once again to call on the whole of the National Representation, the individual Member, to give us his ideas, to give us ideas on how we can solve issues which have been agitating our fellow citizens for years. Good ideas don't get out of hand. I would also say that many of these ideas have stimulated and a feeling of confidence because it is important - I will say no to us - for engineers who did these services, such as 13033 or others, to hear good words about a country that is not considered a digital pioneer, to hear good words from the European Commission, to listen to good words from the OECD. It stimulates their sense of self-confidence. I close with the following thought: the letter of debate has heard a lot of things. In the spirit of the debate, however, it is clear that there is an area of agreement and convergence. This reflects two things: Reflecting the size of the country's lag. So we all understand that too much needs to be done for reasons of geopolitical equilibrium, for reasons of state status, for many. I would also say to you that it reflects the measure of our responsibility as a political leadership of the Ministry to respond to this effort. Because the mandate arising from this bill is not an order concerning only one ministry or the government alone. It is an order as a whole from what appears to be the political system. For this very reason, once again - in closing - I call on the entire National Representation to vote in favour of this draft law. And now work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: "Digital Governance (Integration into the Greek Legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 and Directive (EU) 2019/1024) - Electronic Communications (Integration into Greek Law of Directive (EU) 2018/172) and other provisions". We are entering the vote on principle, on the articles of the amendments and on the whole, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out, as always, that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two hundred thirty-one articles, two amendments, the nominee article and the whole. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure you have voted on all the areas of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u257	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u258	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u259	Consequently, following the completion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Digital Governance (Integration into Greek Legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 and Directive (EU) 2019/1024) - Electronic Communications (Integration into Greek Law of Directive (EU) 2018/172) and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, articles and total, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u261	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-22-S1-commons.u262	With the consent of this House at 21.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 23 September 2020 at 9 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
