ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 24-1-2020 authorisation, the Minutes of the IGC of Friday 24 January 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Friday 24 January 2020 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law ‘Election of Members’.]] Before entering today's agenda, let me make two announcements to this House. The Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism and State tabled a draft law on 24-1-2020: "Institution, operation and operation of airports on water surfaces, transport arrangements and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Parliamentary Zise Tzikalaya seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from Friday 31 January 2020 until Tuesday 4 February 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Standardization of its individual donation contracts from 6.9.2018 Donation contract between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade the infrastructure in the health sector ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A'170)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 23 January 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform, in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u4	The House has agreed. It is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 2nd Artemis Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We shall now proceed directly to the rapporteurs. The rapporteur of the new Republic, Mr Neocles Cretan, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we bring to plenary the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Standardization of its individual donation contracts from 6.9.2018 Donation contract between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade the health infrastructure ratified by n. Regulation (EC) No 4564/2018 (A'170).’; I am happy, as this draft law concerns improving quality in the health services provided, and an honor because it is directly related to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. The incomprehensible national benefactor Stavros Niarchos carved the origin of the village of Bamvakos of Laconia and the links of the foundation with my region are blood bonds. I shall therefore start with a revert to the current legislative history of the donation of the Foundation. On 21-9-2018, under Law 4564, the primary donation contract between the institution and the Greek State, which regulates the contractual framework, the general terms and conditions for the implementation by the Foundation of a series of donations for the enhancement and upgrading of infrastructure in the health sector in Greece, called the Health Initiative. It's an excellent initiative with vision and love for man. In particular, the institution shall bear all the costs of implementing the following projects: First, the design, construction and equipment of the General Hospital of Komotini. Second, design, construction and equipment of Thessaloniki Children's Hospital. Thirdly, here there was an amendment to the contract and so, while the project initially included the design, construction and equipment of the ‘Evangelism Hospital’, in order to act as head office of the Department of Nursing of the School of Health of the EMCDDA, was modified for reasons to be mentioned below and broke into two projects, the IIIA and the IIIB. The conventions of these two sub-projects, IIIA and IIIB, which I shall also mention next, are being ratified today by this draft law. Fourth, supply and installation of medical equipment to the Organic Unit General Hospital of Advertising. Fifth, the supply of new equipment, as well as the maintenance of an existing equipment, with a view to strengthening the capacity and effectiveness of the ACB's aerospace facilities. Sixth, supply and installation of special medical equipment, the PET, positron emission tomography at selected public nursing establishments in our country. Seventh, financing the formulation and implementation of educational programmes, concerning intra-surface infections and the management of the wound. Eighth, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation was integrated into the framework of its donations and the construction of the General Hospital of Sparta and the Greek Parliament ratified this contract on 14-11-2019. The premeditated hospital is currently developing and preliminary discussions on the organisation and operating regulations of the hospital have begun. This is important news for Laconia and the consequent upgrade of the health services of the county. Initiation of a project donation requires ratification by individual contract laws, which describes in detail the obligations of both parties. For the greater performance of donation by the institution and the maximization of positive results for the Greek State, there is the possibility of revision. Thus, following the development of the projects and taking into account scientific data, both parties amended the contract between them by the 5-11-2019 amending contract, which was ratified by Law 4638/2019. This was as the Greek State informed the institution that the concession of space within the “Advertising” Hospital for the implementation of project III donation was not approved by the management board of the hospital. Following that decision, the institution turned to the strengthening of the nursing sector, considering the necessity of such an operation. His donations were decided to be given to the Department of Nursing of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens, as well as to the Professional School of Nurses of the General Hospital of Athens “Evangelism”. In particular, four individual contracts are being ratified by this draft law: two for the third project that broke into two revised actions, IIIA and IIIB, as we have said, and the seventh project on education programmes for two different categories of medical issues: trauma and infections. Each individual project describes the implementation schedules, the budget, which is analysed in a separate annex, the certification procedures by the Greek State of the donation of the institution, the obligations of the Greek State after the delivery of the projects for their proper maintenance and operation, with the aim of always serving the people in need of medical care. Always in our center, in the final analysis, must be the man and the upgrading of health and care structures. More specifically, for the four sub-projects, individual contracts are awarded. The first sub-contract contains the IIIA project, i.e. the provision of special medical equipment for the needs of the Nursing Department of the School of Health Sciences of the EMCDDA, as well as the design, organisation and implementation of educational research programmes and the approval of scholarships relating to the subject of the school, as indicated by the EMCDDA and the school. The type of special medical equipment and the proposed training programme were decided upon following a specific check on the type, quantity and technical specifications and on the existing structures and functions of the school. Evidently everything is done in consultation and good cooperation with the school. The second sub-contract contains the IIIB project, i.e. the provision of special medical devices for the needs of the Nursing Education Centre of the General Hospital of Athens, “Advertising”, as well as the design, organisation and implementation of a postgraduate curriculum and the approval of scholarships related to the subject of the Centre. The third sub-contract contains project VII related to the wound. This Convention ratifys the donation relating to two sections. The first section contains funding for the implementation of educational programmes to deal with the injury with funding from the Nearchor Foundation for the first five years, where I would like to analyse it a little more. The trauma programmes include, firstly, the implementation of training programs in certified trauma training centres through the treatment of trauma involving medical students, nursing students and rescuers of the EMCDDA. In particular, they also contain by specificity, firstly, the design, organisation and implementation of an educational programme called ‘Advanced Trauma Life Support’, in short, the ATLS for the training of senior medical students, the sixth year and, in principle, for the treatment of the injury. Secondly, the design, organisation and implementation of an educational programme called ‘Advanced Trauma Care for Nurses’, in short ‘ATCN’, on the training of seniors and graduates, within the first year of their graduation, of nursing students. Third, the design, organisation and implementation of an educational programme called ‘Prehospital Life Trauma Support’, briefly ‘PHTLS’, which deals with training on the rescue wound of the EAW. The trauma programs include funding scholarships for the participation of general surgery specialists and orthopaedic surgery at a well-known global training centre on the wound in South Africa. Now, as regards the second section of the sub-contract for the trauma, this includes the supply of special medical equipment for surgical simulators, as identified in its type and technical details in Annex 2, with a view to the training of doctors and surgeons in the field of surgical simulation, as well as the establishment of a Center for Surgery simulation at the AKISA University Bedroom, within the University General Hospital of Attican. The fourth sub-contract contains the VII project related to infections. This Convention affirms the grant of five-year funding for the prevention and training of hospital infections and microbial resistance, as well as the one-off supply of technological equipment for the needs of this programme, with a view to creating model Greek public hospitals in the field of prevention and control of infections and microbial resistance. The dynamics, effectiveness, speed, always combined with the maturation of the projects, can make the "Health Initiative" programme of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation a model for how we approach health space and actions. It is also a given fact that every donation meets the needs of the state which are many, as well as weaknesses left behind by the ten-year economic crisis. It is therefore pleasant and hopeful that we are here today to discuss donations and projects that enhance the quality of the health care of Greek citizens and the quality of the education of our young scientists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. I call on the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis, to take the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking today for the ratification of the contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation of 17 million, which is part of a contract, which is part of the Foundation's contribution to the public health system, which is close to EUR 300 million In order to better understand the amount, the economic size, that of this offer, I would first like to dwell on the overall elements that we have. Within that period of serious budgetary sluggishness, the left-wing government, with its bias in favour of the public health system, initiated, among other things, to use all the financial resources and programmes it could allocate. Through the Public Investment Programme, the NSRP, the extrajudicial compromise with SIEMENS managed to mobilise a total of EUR 200 million to the public health system. I shall mention two indicative elements here. For the first time, we have allowed the elected regions with their own resources to finance the public system and it is indicative that Rena Douru, as the district manager of Attica, has allocated 40 million for the hospitals of Attica. 'We have unlocked' procedures from the extrajudicial compromise with 'SIEMENS' at EUR 23.5 million. In any case, the government was then able to allocate 200 million towards upgrading the medical-technological equipment and the building facilities of the Ministry of Health. The offer of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation exceeds this amount, and that is the first thing I think we should keep. Secondly, why is this money being given to what purpose? The previous rapporteur referred to the details of the planning for the Komotini Hospital, the Thessaloniki Children's Hospital, the “Advertising” Hospital, the School of Nursing, the upgrading of the Aerospace Hospital of EKAB, etc. As he said in the debate in committee and a colleague from the New Democracy, this is a targeted reinforcement of the public health system on the part of the Foundation, a sign that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has good advisors. I think it is advisable to focus a little on this position of the New Democracy colleague, who is in agreement with me. Who were the Foundation's consultants for this offer we're talking about today? Who, in other words, turned the donation to these projects to the public health system? The representative of the institution addressed the then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the Prime Minister then directed them to the political leadership of the Ministry of Health, Mr. Xanthos and Mr. Polakis. These were the advisors of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for this offer. Left-wing government Prime Minister and the civil leadership of the Ministry of Health presented an integrated plan and not fragmented interventions, presented functional and permanent interventions in the system rather than a rhysfetology, and presented a human resources development plan rather than a micro-party pursuit service. This is, in my opinion, the experience of the convention we are discussing and this experience we must keep it, ladies and gentlemen, integrating and integrating - if you want - any financial support, whatever its level, into a long-term plan for the development and strengthening of the public health system. This is a private investment in the public health system, but targeted, so as to strengthen the public health system. As we said when the initial ratification came in 2018 and as the previous colleague said, it is an investment in social cohesion and the dignity of the country. This is the agreement signed by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras at the time. The state sets priorities and the state ensures the functionality and efficiency of investments. The investor puts the resources and ensures the completion of the construction of the projects. That's the deal we've got today. How do you want to call her? Do you want to call it a form of public-private partnership? Do you want to call it an offer from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation? Do you want to call it a gentlemen's deal? Allow me to speak, I do not want to defuse this offer. Do you want to call her mutual co-operation? Do you want to call it a reinforcement of the public health system? It is important that, as we call it, such a type of private investment in the public health system is absolutely in agreement with us. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had enough in this part, in the kind, quality, in the nature of investment not to say 'we started it and you are coming to fill it', but in my opinion the subject of today's debate is approaching the limit of the two different perceptions, which, as they conflict with the whole society and the life of the country, also conflict with health. The dividing line of these two policies conflicting in the field of health lies precisely in relations and in the position of the private and public sectors. At the heart of the left for health policy is equality in care, solidarity with the weak and vulnerable, social justice in the hierarchy and distribution of resources. Our aim was, is, is and remains the preservation and promotion of the health of the population. In political action and political everyday life all of our theoretical approach is aimed at strengthening the public health system, increasing the vital public space at the expense of the private sector. On the opposite side of this political proposal is the right-wing proposal, the neo-conservative political proposal, which ultimately seeks to increase the vital space of the private sector at the expense of the public sector. This different political approach has been experienced by both sides. We lived or if you want better, in the last four years, we got a taste of this universal health strategy in the period of governance from the left and we got a taste that was what we achieved. We have managed to strengthen public care, we have managed to upgrade the National Health System, we have managed to support the human resources working in the public system, we have managed to make potential interventions, move on to reforms, strengthen the social state. We received a public health system on the edge of the cliff and delivered it in a healing phase of his wounds. We have also lived up to the application of right-wing health policy, which has given us exactly the public system to the limits of functional collapse. We live if you want, and in the last seven months, the cancellation of the Left Strategy. Zero recruitments we have, downgrading services to the public system we have, we have the privatisation of critical areas of public care aimed at the profits of the private investor. The new Republic, through the public-private partnership, selects the line of the concession to the State-owned profitable private sector of important hospital departments. It undermines the public and free character of the National Health System, carries the financial burdens to the citizen. Finally, it expands inequalities in health. We must therefore be clear: we remain discriminatory in favour of the public health system. This is a position with a clear class mark, with a clear social footprint. Secondly, we disagree with the increase in the vital space of the private sector at the expense of the public health sector. Thirdly, we disagree with the private-public partnership with a business profit for the investor. The threat of enclosure in several clinics due to hypotension, the shortages of drugs, the abortages of treatments that exist, all of this undermines the public health system - we live in the last seven months, more than in the last three months - in the interests of private interests. We are not simply opposed to this, but are at the forefront of the races against the marketing and privatization of health, racing against the neo-preservation of health, and we are calling on all workers, particularly workers in the public health system. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the draft law that you are proposing to us today, we consider it positive that the specialisation plan which comes to help finance the efforts to strengthen hospitals should be supported, and that is why we are voting in favour of it at first instance. We have also stated this in the debate in the committee. We also agree with the amendment. There was a problem with the beneficiaries of CSR who had lost zero participation in drugs. We had the arrangement until 31-12-19. We agree on the extension until 31/12-20, and in that sense we are also voting in favour of the amendment. While we are concerned about delays in deadlines, we consider the Minister's statement to be positive in the debate in committee, that, as far as the Komotini Hospital and other late-term projects are concerned, there will be legislative interventions so that they do not end up with the agreement. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that as far as staff shortages are concerned, which have actually been zero in recent years, there are structures on their limits and, in our view, there is an unacceptable and unacceptable delay. Finally, I would like to focus for a moment on the projects which we are proposing to ratify today with today's ratification. I would like to focus on the task of dealing with infections. First of all, we consider strengthening and efforts to deal with infections to be positive. Secondly, surely the scientists proposed in the government's proposal with the agreement it brings, have adequate and scientific knowledge in their field, in their responsibilities. However, ladies and gentlemen, as the committee debate showed, the EGE, the sole official and competent body, was not asked. So, at the moment, we are talking about funding a project that we do not know firsthand - I mean by the EGE - whether it covers gaps, shortcomings, problems in dealing with infections. Furthermore, the Minister's replies to the debate in committee on the grounds of the EGE's circumvention do not cover us, did not convince us. In this sense, therefore, and because we consider that every effort should be made to deal with infections through the EAFRD, we express our utmost commitment to overcoming them with the work proposed. With this very strong reservation, we will be voting in favour of the convention that is currently coming for ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifteen students and students and an educational attendant from the 2nd Acharon High School (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call to the Step Mr. Andreas Poula from the Change Movement for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the years of the memorandum are well known, the National Health System has been critically affected. Within ten years the state budget for health expenditure fell to 4.33% from 6.6% in 2010. The recruitment of permanent staff in the public hospitals has been frozen and the life expectancy of the Greeks has been reduced. Public health was abandoned on the automatic pilot, with only 35% being spent on private health expenditure by Greek households, while the average of OECD countries is only 21%. It is true that the national benefactors have come many times in relief in circumstances of national need to benefit the country. So, since the brave donation of the Joint Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" comes to heal - in a way - some of the wounds left by the decade of abandonment and deterioration of public health. Today's bill undertakes to implement some 17m euros for equipment with top-level technology in the education of students in medicine, nursing and in areas requiring continuous post-training, trauma and infections. In principle, the Change Movement is clearly 'in favour' of the resolution of this bill. Besides, the continuing training of doctors, nurses, rescuers on developments in medical research and technology is a self-evident principle of medical science. We also wish for other institutions or individuals with financial pleasure to contribute with similar donations to improving the country's health infrastructure, but also in other areas where necessary. Of course, any contribution should follow a national project with a specific target. It should not be taboo to implement actions through donations in various areas of central government, where the government budget is inadequate. For this national project the most competent body is the Greek Parliament, which, through a intergroup committee, could draw up a roadmap so that every donation can continue and achieve maximum benefit for the Greek people. Despite the positive sign of today's bill, we can only touch on specific points that raise questions. First, there is the training of senior students of the University of Athens health schools on trauma and hospital infections. However, there is nothing for already serving in the public hospitals in our country, doctors or nurses. These are those scientists who have taken most of the health care of the population and who work at an exterminant rate, who raise the weight of newspapers and handle cases of 60% to 70% more, due to the residual structures of primary health care. This medical and nursing staff - permanent and subsidiary - of the public hospitals in Attica and the region is primarily in need of education and has been poorly excluded from this programme. Secondly, as we have repeatedly stated from the Step of the House, the ESS needs brave reconstruction in order to meet the needs and health profile of today's citizen. This design must be based on a roadmap drawn up by the Greek Parliament to avoid experiments on the health of citizens, such as experiments that we learn will be included in the bill of the Ministry of Health that you are carrying out, by reforming the way in which the hospitals in Attica are invented, without the necessary recruitments being made, by on-calls at TLs in non-information hospitals and with inadequate primary health care structures, putting even greater weight on our country's public hospitals. It goes without saying that on the basis of all this, which I have mentioned and with what is heard about the hospitalisation of PPPs, the PPP will not be restructured, but will be at risk of collapse. The training of medical and nursing staff must be extended to other areas of health. A future donation or a ESDP programme could also focus on other specialities, which are not provided for by this donation. Fourthly, this draft law selects a complex scheme with civil special-purpose companies for the implementation of the actions, without the participation of the Greek State and in particular of the EGE, which is at least the competent body responsible for the infections. These companies will manage millions, with an unknown guarantee of credibility and sound management. We believe that the involvement of the Greek State in the control of the management of this money must be self-evident. In addition, you are setting up a public body to assess the quality of health services. Beyond the unprecedented, advisable creation of another public body, we consider that in this way the EGE is downgrading, especially as regards its participation in education for infections. The way in which this new institution is administered and staffed remains unknown by raising serious questions. Fifthly, the question of the provision of technical equipment arises in the field of specifications. Who put them on the basis of what logged needs? At this point I stress that we do not have the luxury of repeating the phenomenon of the market for latest-tier machinery with the wrong specifications and without any space for their location, as was recently the case with machinery supplied by the Region of Attica. Sixth, this draft law does not provide any information on the organisational part of the contract. The staff who will be serving the urban special-purpose companies, and also the programme trainers, how will they be recruited? With what kind of contracts, what working conditions and wages? Also, what is the purpose of this project, the trainees to make money for their education, given that higher education is free of charge and this training programme is financed by the donation of the Niarchus Foundation? Finally, what will be the fate of the programme for the prevention and education of hospital infections and microbial resistance after the end of the five-year period? Is it going to continue? Ladies and gentlemen, citizens' access to high-level public health services is a social priority. But there is a need for a national public health strategy for the future. There is no time for experimentation and fragmentation, which will be presented as supposedly solutions. Today, public hospitals, lifting the burden of health care, have reached their limits. Substitution and consolidation of the budget, in conjunction with the shortages of high-cost medicines, create explosive situations. Recently, the doctors at "Saint Olga" interrupted surgery. In other hospitals, chemo treatments are delayed, in others they close laboratories and departments, such as the Pathology Laboratory of "Alexandra" and the Paedopsychiatric Department of the "Pediadis Pentelis". In the middle of the flu peak period, already eighty and a hundred ICU beds are closed, due to a lack of staff and the Ministry of Health, to deal with this problem concludes an agreement with private therapists, who have ICU beds, but without knowing the terms of the agreement. Who are they and what do they include? So, yes, the implementation of this donation is important, but the daily practice in the hospitals in the country shows that, unless health funding is increased in the state budget and if no recruitment is done, every design will be semi-meter and sloppy. And your choice as a PPP government in public hospitals that appear as top reform will be a failure. The NSA is a system that's grown old so many years after it was founded. New scientists, with the appetite for work, cover the empty organic positions in nursing and paramedical staff and modern medical and logistics equipment, need to be covered. All of this, together with increased funding, reforming primary health care can give a solution to the long-term health problems that afflict citizens. Let us put the experimentation aside and take firm steps towards a substantial restructuring of the National Health System. With regard to the amendment, which you have suddenly tabled, it proves once again the fragmentation of your legislative initiatives. The extension of the exemption from medical expenses up to 31-12-2020 is fair. It concerns the beneficiaries of the CSCE, which SYRIZA has abolished. But what happens after 2020? Should we set economic criteria? Obviously, yes, in our view. But we're going a little bit further. As a Change Movement, we move forward to the proposal and request the reintroduction of the ESS for low-pensions and the reintroduction of the 15th pension for all, in accordance with Council Decisions 2287/2015 and 2290/2015. Anything else recommends retreating from your election commitments to remove injustices made by the SYRIZA government and increasing the income of citizens, including long-term low pensioners. Even late, you also brought in arrangements for the distribution of high-cost medicines, which are not just hospital-related. Patients may also be supplied via private pharmacies. We, as a Change Movement, do not escape our position, which is other than the public health character, hoping that the brave donation of Stavros Niarchos Foundation will be maximum, strong and effective and will help the National Health System. That is why we are voting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Poulla.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u12	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, on 23 January 2020 Kostas Sofoulis closed the von Vinon. Kostas Sofoulis was our colleague, elected with PASOK from 1993 to 1996. His life was very rich in experiences and activities. Founding member of Democrat Defence, was imprisoned for a dictatorship. He was a founder of the University of the Aegean and an honest professor of his. He taught Greece and abroad. Generally, he was a man of very sweet, very serious, very active, as I said. He left for a full day, eighty-three years, if anyone can say that, especially by addressing his relatives. He's getting drunk this afternoon at 16:00 the spring time. Please, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, let us make a minute's silence in its memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u14	Of course, Mr. Comrade. [[All Members of Parliament stand up and observe one minute's silence]] His memory is eternity. I invite Mr. Georgios Lambroulis, from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Our vote in both the sub-contract we are discussing, but also in the bill of the main contract, expresses criticism of the responsibilities of all governments, which, in their policy of pro-politics, cut public health benefits, increase recompense and payments to health services, medicines and tests and others, contributing to the right of patients to necessary public health units to be presented by those who condemn the people to impoverishment. Just such measures should be the sole responsibility of the State to be fully financed by the State budget, to be managed by permanent full-time and full-time staff, to ensure adequate and modern medical equipment and, of course, to be part of the universally-developed public health system, so that in time, safely and completely free of charge, all preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic actions are provided to those in need, without conditions and conditions. At the same time, any bids shall be made available by ancillary and complementary means. In the face of the well-known argument, which was heard in previous years, that the State has no money or the argument of invoking budgetary needs, commitments and goes on to say, the reality is that during the period of increased growth in the past, the State and capital with all its governments were underfunding the public health system, did not develop the necessary infrastructure, took measures to cut public benefits, and patients paid much more. All this is speeding up today, multiplying, because steam-powered growth in business groups is in complete contrast to popular social needs. And if something turns out, which workers should think, is that the capitalist state never has money for the needs of the people's strata, not in the phase of capitalist development or in the phase of the capitalist economic crisis. This is because it is a political choice to all kinds of support for big business, either through tax exemptions, tax reliefs or by giving warm money to ensure their high profitability in both phases. Moreover, the money that the institution will make available is, in fact, a very small part of the profits, a drop in the ocean, but resulting from the wild exploitation of workers, from their unpaid working time, which generates profits. At the same time, both the current government and the previous ones are making use of these agreements and, in order to influence them, to have a deeper ideological effect on workers, seeking to cultivate in the territory of the serious problems of the people's families the human face of the farm system, to reconcile workers with the perception that they can also spare any crumbs the better the profitability of entrepreneurs and, at the same time, to addict workers with the concept of social services and benefits, not as a right, but as charity. And the more the anti-grass attack is intensified, the more the dramatic reduction in state and employers' health spending, welfare and entrepreneurial action is promoted, the more the charities and initiatives of health entrepreneurs will appear and not just. This is because donations are the alibi and the exchange of capitalists, in order to continue and increase the exploitation of workers, to pave the way for people's needs and precisely to serve the designs and interests of business groups. Is it not because public hospitals and health centres are increasingly strengthening their business and real characteristics? Or, for example, that the entire Eastern Attica has no one public hospital despite some half-functioning health centres? Or, for example, that Thessaloniki and thus northern Greece have been without a pediatric hospital for decades? Or is that four billion euros a year going for naval spending, in order to be part of the plaice, where land, while for people's health there is no more than one euro? So, at the same time that all these business groups consider the demands of workers to be a cause of war, as they have shaped working and living conditions in terms of the past decades, they appear to be big benefactors in favour of the people, in fact having a very few profits from the work of the workers. They aim to integrate and so-called social peace. In this direction are the governments and other urban parties, all trying together to prevent the great danger, the organisation of the struggle for workers, who will claim all this wealth and the means they produce it, overthrowing the political and economic power of the monopolies. The only difference in the political context, in the context of the discussion of the Convention, is that the SYRIZA Government and its amendment - or any modifications - will manage it by the New Democracy Government. Because they may be opposed to secondary, three-fold issues and issues, but to the principals, in order to support and in fact to acquit the exploitation of the people, there is a consensus and common strategy. If this is the obvious, if you want, aspects that are not hidden, it remains to be seen in the future and the unscrupulous aspects of this manifestation of love, which is not only explained by itself in the institution's own contribution. Because the original contract, for example, may provide that the children's hospitals in Komotini, Thessaloniki, will be delivered to the full ownership of the public for their operation, with the corresponding financing, staffing, maintenance, etc., but they are also being created - which, of course, we had also formulated during the debate on the original contract - by the fact that the foundation is equally entitled to control all the essential aspects of the operation of the works, with the provision of penalties and even a refund of the sums allocated. It is understandable that the aim is to ensure the proper functioning of the projects and for the purpose for which the donation money was made available. However, what happens in the case - the unbelievable experience, since the public, for whatever reason, does not fund or manage these hospitals sufficiently, in this case, or specifically? This, in accordance with the contract, can be an opportunity either to return money or if the public does not have the opportunity to return it, to find a solution with the granting of a hospital to private individuals, if it is or can be made the hospital or the hospitals profitable. Therefore, questions remain as to how, once the hospital has been set up, the uninterrupted functioning of these hospital units, whether they will be fully and adequately financed by the state budget, whether the necessary recruitment of permanent staff of all specialities will be done, whether it will be ensured that it is adequate in materials and medicines, and whether it will provide services fully free of charge to everyone. And the situation, which prevails in public hospitals in the country, which strengthen their business activities, which reduce staff, who are underfunded by the state and are called upon to survive by selling the services directly to the patients or indirectly to the state-paid and capital insurance funds, also gives answers. This is an additional element that confirms our position, namely that the development of public health units must be a full and exclusive responsibility of the State, without any direct or indirect involvement of the private sector. Likewise, the funding of the sectors provided for in the individual Convention on "Announcement" we are discussing, which is a mere intervention and is conditional on the State's natural contribution of personnel, operation, maintenance of equipment, etc. But the issues, for example, of education and post-training, which concern the treatment of trauma, infections and go by saying, are not a one-off process, but a constant and time-consuming one. How, then, will this be ensured or ensured, or will it be ensured, when it is not a matter for the State to ensure it permanently and adequately, but depends on the multi-paid charity of business groups? Indeed, in this particular case, by a community-owned institution based in Bermuda, which marks the way that tax evasion from profits at the expense of not only the working people in our country, Greece, but also elsewhere, where it operates elsewhere. Therefore, Mr President, on the basis of the above, we will vote 'at present' in the convention and I believe we will have a two-minute standpoint in the text of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Please come to Stepma, on the Greek side, Mrs Maria Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us say that we recognise the scale of the work to be done by this convention. This draft law comes to supplement, following the changes made to the original contract, the already validated donation of the institution since September 2018. Seeing this draft law on individual donations in the field of health, but also on the main donation contract with the actions included in it, I tell you that as a doctor I am truly happy. My colleagues are being given additional opportunities for better medicine, for better and more complete health provision. But we're talking about public health. That is why, as a citizen of that state, my feelings are mixed, although they are separated. On the one hand, I am pleased that health infrastructures will be modernised and medical staff will be able to work in a modern environment, with new equipment. I am also pleased that doctors of nurses and rescuers of the EKA will be able to train beyond and beyond the training they receive from the Greek state. At the same time, however, as a citizen, I am always worried and disturbed. I am concerned about the fact that a private person comes and covers with his own state's own faults, he covers pathogens, shortcomings, inadequacies of the system, which should only be dealt with by the Greek state. A private person builds hospitals, buys equipment, trains staff and helps to fill gaps in years that were caused either because of the economic crisis and the Memorandum Agreements, or because of poor political choices in general. A private person wants to donate to the state, but we note that the institution's seat is in Bermuda, one of the states on the blacklist of non-cooperative areas of tax jurisdiction. It contributes with donations, but it does not contribute to taxation. He prefers tax havens. And that's what I'm really disturbing about. And we should all - and I mean all of us - be ashamed that we, as a state, cannot meet these needs. The Greek people have been taxed for years even now for the breathing air, while companies and institutions are taxed for equal donations. Of course, responsibilities have been more burdened - if not exclusively - by all those who have been ruling this place for decades. Perhaps the Greek people together have elected them, but they have not been governed. Ladies and gentlemen, in more detail, reading the related annexes to the four individual conventions in this draft law, I see the institution's detailed and full donation, but much more I see the determination for education and knowledge. However, I have my reservations about the management of: In Project IIIA, which relates to such important assistance at the School of Nursing with equipment and educational programmes, it is not possible to pass unnoticed great ambiguities on the timetables which must be done in particular, with dates of beginning and end. The public is committed to staff and facilities and must therefore respect the time limits laid down, at least that. Subsequently, the provision of equipment and programmes at the ‘Enclarisation’ Hospital in Work IIIB reveals the institution's willingness to promote knowledge and education. The same is true for doctors, nurses and rescuers of the EMCDDA with the trauma training programmes, the "Work VII". And, of course, with the scholarships for education at the best centers worldwide in their kind. However, there is an recruitment freeze, delays in the conduct of tenders for the installation of machinery, delays in the additional staffing of the GLP, risk of delays being lost and parts of the donation. In Article 5, "Integration Certification" has not been designated as a legal or natural person starting the work and making reports of progress in implementation, as well as not a guarantor of the Greek State, so that we can have guarantees of the proper implementation and completion of the donation. In Article 8 ‘Other conditions’, the NRP undertakes obligations that may be incapable of fulfilling. How will the Greek State ensure the good execution of the project and the preparedness of the Greek State to that effect? I move on to the funding of a five-year programme of EUR 5 million, to the sub-contract of 'Ergo VII' for the trauma and on the prevention and training of control of hospital infections and microbial resistance. They already make public health a high-priced orbital at a theoretical level. And I say at the theoretical level, and all the previous ones, ladies and gentlemen, because the practical part of the whole story will be managed by the Greek public and we all know what risks this option is in terms of administrative, above all, of opinion. Issues such as the treatment of infections and the treatment of the wound, financed by this donation, need to be part of the continuing education and training of health workers. That is why we have supported the creation of the enhanced EGE. But dealing with the injury of the heavyly injured person in the first few minutes of the injury is really crucial, provided that the EKA rescuers arrive in time at the place of the accident and have been well trained. It is a dangerous option, therefore, from an administrative point of view. And since this institution knows that - to the extent that - it chooses - as our Minister himself has told us in committee - to set up an anonymous company, the 'health initiative', to manage the implementation of the IIIA and IIIB projects. Really, is that a choice necessary? Who manages the board of directors of this public limited company? What is the budget and the financial data so that its credibility can be judged? Does it have a balance sheet? On what criteria is it ensured that the public limited liability company in question is properly managed, but also the other NGOs selected to be involved in the management of the projects? Why is it also chosen to involve NGOs in the process? AEMY: The non-profit company named “Regeneration and Progress”. Tell us, what NGO is this and what's her manager? Is there a control mechanism for the proper use of money and for the control of documents? Is there a choice of evaluation of training programmes to be drawn up? We are actually talking about private investment in the public health system in the form of donation. Of course, and so it is still a private civil contract. It can be seen that the EGE, which is the only official and responsible body responsible for the treatment of infections, is bypassed and refers to a new organisation, with the support, in fact, of the Quality Assurance Agency for Health, the PPP, which will be an organisation model as described by the State Secretary. I would remind you that in the previous period, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have changed the legal nature of the EGE from public law to private law. And you did so with the argument that flexibility is needed. Now what happened here? Neither is this flexibility enough, nor is it enough for those who give their money, fear and realize that there is more flexibility than it should be? And since the management of infections is the object of the EGE, does it not make sense to ask ourselves what, at the end of the day, imposed the imperative need to set up a new organisation, why was the newly created EGE considered insufficient on this point and is it considered that the creation of the EGE is a prerequisite for the allocation of the five million euros? Does this mean that not only does the donor come to meet the needs that the state had to ensure for the people, but in order to make sure that this is done as it should, does it decide to overcome the real claws, say, of the system? Maybe the inability? The selfishness, perhaps? What does he say in simple words? "I hardly let you manage the money that must reach the Greek people." Ladies and gentlemen, how much larger seats can it surround governing and service actors? Did the ETA really ask? Did he present his work and his shortcomings? Did he present the aspects of their action for which support is sought? State expenditure is now totally unclear as the amount of expenditure is not determined. Should there not be any relevant studies specifying the relevant costs? Annex 2 in relation to the PPPS shall not mention forecasts and support in the event of weakness or difficulties in the completion of its obligations. In studying the Report of the General Accounting Office of the State, there are other ambiguities and omissions. We believe that, in order to make sufficient use of all benefits, the government should have preceded a thorough infrastructural investigation, the needs should have been reflected and their coverage promoted consistently, without waste and gray zones. In particular, it does not refer to how the central government body is involved as a cost centre, with the role of a guarantor, in ensuring that the granting is fully maintained in a possible failure to comply with the obligations of the legal persons referred to in the Convention rather than as a contracting party. Also, the reference to possible expenditure - pages 105, 106 and 100 - outweighs the cash burden to be borne by each of the operators concerned. Therefore, a statistical study of the Ministry of Health should have been carried out, showing both the course of training needs and the logistical infrastructure of the donation of cases or incidents to hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, the institution has the vision, money and determination to give us a better presence in public health and a high-level future. The public, however, must be shown to be worthy of the donations and purposes for which they are intended. I see that the administration of the "Advertising" Hospital did not approve the concession of the area for the implementation of the donation to the School of Nursing. However, no response has been received so far why the administrative board has refused. Because he did not accept it, but also how the administration and the institution discussed the concession of the space to the "Evangelism". Wasn't the hospital informed of this important initiative? He was briefed. He refused. And the government did what it wanted? Maybe he agreed, and then he changed his attitude. Do you think we have time to waste? I don't think you know that. So you see what we're telling you? Complete downfall of everything, of course. Otherwise, the governments in Greece expect investment! Here's the gifts they give us, we can't make sure. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, aid to students in nursing is important, but too many recruitments of nurses are needed. All this is being delayed in the last few years. Do we expect something or do you just want to do it your way? Hospitals, as do other sectors. Also, ladies and gentlemen of the government, regarding scholarships: because scholarships are like non-ACP recruitments, make sure the excellent ones, as you publish, are taken away, not the excellent ones. In conclusion, we call on you to prove that we can accept every donation for the common good alone, maximise every person's good intention and exclude any other suspicious behaviour to develop contacts and channels. We call on the government and everyone who manages not only these donations, but also everyone else, to honour the spirit of the donor concerned and the needs of our country and not to deport from the wicked neither the infrastructure nor the human potential of the public health area, which every day fights with diseases and diseases in and out. It's a national check. The Greek Solution is voting 'yes', hoping to pay attention to the comments we made. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mrs Athanasios. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition "Volumes of the Greeks: the one-way stations of almost two hundred years" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 53rd General High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] With the consent of the last speaker, Mrs.Apatzidis, I will invite the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, to attend the wreath on behalf of his party on the occasion of the Memorial Day of Greek Jewish Witnesses and Holocaust Heroes. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much for your kindness, Mr President, and your dear colleague for allowing this to happen. Indeed, today is Memory Day for the Holocaust and I will represent my resignation. I have not missed these events in recent years, always as a representative of my party. It is worth mentioning from the Stepma that the tragic events surrounding the Holocaust must not be forgotten. As far as we can and each of us can remind each other of them and point to, in the opinion of each other and each other, the relevant literature in the next generation, because the weather is passing and the people are forgetting. Now, in the light of the amendment, I would like to make a reminder that the EKT that was abolished by the previous government was introduced in 1996 by the PASOK and the government of Costas Simitis, for which his opponents said a number of things. I'm in politics because of Costas Simitis. I had no reason to leave my job, but I believed and believe in this man. They blamed him for cruel, European social democrat and not sensitive, but the measures he had taken in favour of the weaker, were very important and one of them was the EASA, which was abolished by the previous government. Now, as far as the draft law is concerned, it is, of course, a gift that they have given and you continue to give now, too, a small gift against a horrific abolition of social measures. Today, we come by legislative act - which is ultimately a law, there is no meaning of legislation in the vocabulary of the House when it votes for draft laws - of this nature to ratify an administrative contract. The legal issues involved in the ratification of such a convention are enough, but I am limited to saying two of them: As far as conditions are concerned in the Convention and in the field of private law are concerned, they remain in the field of private law and after the adoption of the law, and whenever general and abstract legal rules are laid down, these provisions which then produce acts that are invalid in the Council of State. One of the prisoners. Second the prisoner. Because Mr Poulas in committee as I read, and here today he made particular reference to the anonymous company which is founded, I am thinking of this method for so much money. Why should a legal person, which will be managed, should we accept, in full accordance with the rules of private law, which is not, for example, the subject of the contractor of the construction of the Komotini hospital of any construction? What's the point? The donations - and the previous ones know - are very necessary and useful. At first they didn't want them, then they learned. Well done, and you bring it here now. However, are these procedures not better, ladies and gentlemen, rather than providing for legal persons, which will move on, to be done by the donor himself and by the 'hand key', to be handed over to the public, in accordance with the specifications that the public is asking for? Why wouldn't it be like that? At least in my own terms as Minister when I was getting donations, I only accepted them when the donor took over his construction. There was one case where a donor did not accept that. Mr Marinakis, following the earthquakes in Kefalonia in 2013, who wanted to repair or build a new school in the place of what was shattered, did not want to take the responsibility of a future bad moment, an earthquake that will throw this away, but the public should also take responsibility for the construction. The debate here is in place with this kind of data. Note that until last year school was still like this. Anyway, donation is needed. However, why should the donor not give it to the public, according to the public standards, ready and now should the persons you are going to appoint to this public limited company accept criticisms because they gave the project to this company or the other company? I think it's a false tactic. We vote of course, as Andreas Poulas said, and thank you very much as members of the National Delegation for the donor, but we have reservations about the procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u22	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Loverdos, I am not a lawyer to know the details of private and public law, but the Health Initiative is a company wholly owned by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. The solutions and all the projects are the key to the hand. They'll build them, they'll take them. There's no public involvement, no involvement in this company. I just wanted to clarify that we don't participate in the company. However, it is reasonable for an institution which builds hospitals, builds up certain infrastructures, to need a'vehicle' - which in this case is the 'health initiative' - in order to complete these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u24	If there's no public involvement, then all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u25	There isn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u26	The clarifications were given so that there would be no mistaken impression. Please Mrs. Maria Apatzides from Mera25 take the floor. We should also thank her for facilitating the process with Mr Loverdos. Here you go, Mrs. Apajidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are examining is essentially the updating of an already legislated agreement regulating the contractual framework, the general terms and conditions for the implementation of donations by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, in order to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructure. These relate to the cost of design, construction and equipment of the new General Hospital of Komotini, the hospital of Paidon Thessaloniki, as well as the building of Athens in the area of the General Hospital of Evangelism - Ophthalmian University of Athens - Polyclical, in order to operate there, in order to have a seat at the Department of Nursing of the School of Health Sciences of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. It also concerns the supply and installation of medical equipment at the General Hospital of Advertising, Aerospace and selected public nursing establishments in the country. It also includes the development and implementation of educational programmes for intra-surface infections and the management of the wound, and related incidents or even self-contained additional projects that could be agreed as additional donation. It is noted that as far as the provision of space within the hospital "Evangelism" is concerned, after not approved by the hospital board, the donation will be made available to the Department of Nursing of the School of Health Sciences of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens and the Professional School of Nurse Assistants of the General Hospital "The Evangelism - Ophthalmian University of Athens - Polyclical". The terms and timetables for the implementation of donations, the budget and so on are defined. As MERA25, we consider it to be a good thing that some funds are being provided in the form of a donation, but this is a very negative one. The state follows a logic of outsourcing, even in such a fundamental constitutional obligation as health. Article 21 of the Constitution stipulates that the state ensures the health of its citizens. However, on the one hand, the memorials and the affliction of public finances which have brought about and, on the other hand, the government's ideology of a smaller state has brought us to the state of public health expenditure, the philanthropy of individuals. We would, of course, remind you that the contract was first made in the SYRIZA government, so the ruling party actually continues the same policy as its predecessors. The state has been able to have an absolute need for private sector donations to keep a misguided public health substantially alive. This is, in fact, a break-up to the social contract, as the state cannot offer the citizens the basics required by its mission, with all the consequences such a break-up has for overthrowing social cohesion, normality or even regularity, to use a favourite term of government. At Mer25 we are fundamentally opposed to this turn of things, to our nightmare, memorial reality. On the other hand, we are, of course, aware of the terrible needs involved in this convention. We have no doubt that the needs of the contract are real. However, we stress that this is precisely what demonstrates the state of the country and the result of very specific political choices over the last 10 years. Therefore, we are not against this contract, but we are generally critical of the fact that private charity replaces state care and that is something that we should not get used to. Individuals enter the very narrow core of a state's obligations towards its citizens either in the form of partnerships, either in the form of external awards, or in the form of charitable donations, which probably degrade, more than anything, the state itself. Therefore, we are not against this donation, but we are strongly critical of the fact that private charity replaces constitutional, imperative state care. The pressing and real needs that donation meets. They have come up - as I mentioned above - as a result of specific political choices. We expressly denounce these choices and vote 'present' as I have said in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. I invite the first of five registered colleagues, Mr. Athanasios Plearis, from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it really is one of the cases of speaking in this Parliament where I feel awkward, because a part of which we are discussing here today and which is about to deal with the issue of hospital infections - not its broadness, but its specific partnership with the Stavros Niarchus Foundation - is something that I have dealt with as a patient and as a scientist, because my involvement with medical law and I watched the part of the responsibility that may exist with hospital infections, but I never imagined that what I saw was scientifically capable of experiencing. In fact, in the area of hospital infections, a very large effort should be made. We have to understand that accepting, if anything bad happens to his health, that he can go risking survival, is something that's inside life. It is another thing to go inside the hospital, to get well from the disease that led him to the hospital and to suffer something else that cannot be charged in any form of fault - at least his own - and risk dying from this thing. Indeed, the fact that this figure is 9% -10% in Greece, according to the figures I will mention below - is not the most reliable evidence - means that one out of ten people who pass through the National Health System is at risk of having an infection, even of a small scale, not being at risk. And not just from the public, but from the private health system. According to data provided, hospital infections are 10% in Greece compared with 6% in the European average. But there is one distrust in the evidence provided. Because in a question I have asked and answered by the Minister, Mr Contozamanis, there seems to be no full involvement of the hospitals, which show evidence. Participation is at 77%. The large hospitals of the National Health System participate to a much greater extent. This means that we have a piece for which we do not have reliable data again, we also have a piece that may not be connected. That is, while in the end the reason for dying can be someone else, the cause that caused death may be a hospital infection. The encouraging thing is that after the legislation that existed in 2014 - and before - there was a more diligent legislation on hospital infections and with a ministerial decision that came out of the State Secretary, Mrs Macrey. And that's important. And this is also credited to the former Minister, who is here, to Mr Xanthos. Because I saw, Minister - you may not know, you may not know - that while in 2012 they participated thirty-seven in the indices of infections, in 2016, in the next record, the hundred thirteen hospitals participated. In other words, we now had a share - what we say - of 80%, while in 2012 participation was much smaller. And it contributed to this that there was the 2014 legislative framework - which were voids - and that they were given all the evidence and then went to the EGE. If we look at the data separately, we will understand that especially the more difficult hospitalizations we go to, both the signs of hospital infection, the risk is much greater to reach the intensive care units. And I'm telling you it was something that I experienced in 2016. And when you experience it, you evaluate the percentage differently. Because while someone listening to this debate, he can say that 'all right, we're 10 percent and Europe is 6%, the difference is 4%', but they're people. And we're second to death from hospital infections. In fact, we are first in proportion, but in number we are second after Italy. Every time we have a flu outbreak, we have deaths. And flu deaths can be a hundred, a hundred, fifty, or two hundred incidents. What should be done when we have a thousand six hundred dead a year by hospital infections? Five to six people a day, i.e., they die of hospital infections. And the world that is afflicted by this is too much. Many would say that we may actually have an antibiotic abuse. It is one of the main reasons, and we will see how it can be dealt with. However, what needs to be addressed - and it is not being dealt with and it is a reality - is that, unfortunately, in the health areas it is not being respected to the extent that the rules of resentment should be laid down in respect of what the CERRP and the EESC have taken for the five steps that pure hands should be. And that's challenging, because, if you see the evidence over time, even the times that there was money, it's the same. It's not that much of a cost issue. It's also a matter of costs, obviously. When you have more people in structures, you increase the risk of hospital infections. But that's the one part. The other part is that, unfortunately, there is no compliance with the anti-conscious rules to the extent that we should and unfortunately so far have been talking about - for the first time now - there are no sanctions. If you see the answer, which I am given, while there is the legislative framework, there is no sanction for administrations that do not send data. There is no penalty for administrations that do not comply with hygiene rules and there is no - take care - and a separate budget so that we can monitor per hospital what amount it finally gives for the treatment and reduction of hospital infections. And that is a framework that is slowly in agreement with the Ministry. And it is important today that a part of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation comes to cover this gap. I hear the debate that has developed. Let me tell you. I believe that the argument is wrong about the fact that an NGO is actually going - that part of the five million of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation - is there - but it is not at my disposal to go into a controversy as to whether this should be done through the EGE or whether it should be done - as is done - by a separate body. I think the second is right. Subsidy actions are often complementary. But it is of very little value personally. For me, the important thing is to run another program. Our country has made progress in dealing with hospital infections. But, unfortunately, we are still far from being at the level of the European hospitals. And there is a job that, whether it is done by the private or by the EGE, we should welcome it. I give you a practical answer about hospital infections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u30	To make a small speech in order for the Vice-President of Parliament to speak, Mr Kaklamanis, to speak on Holocaust Day and then continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u31	"Truth - of the impossible - never managed to understand these creatures that do not see the monstrous common trait of man, the predicament of his irrational life and discover differences, - yoga hatred - differences in color, race, religion." Nikos Engonopoulos “In Valley with the Rhodes” captures within some lines a dark and unfortunately timeless truth of human nature, the poison of intolerance that erods the soul and always spreads into the darkest pages of world history. "In our national conscience all the children of the mother of Greece are an integral unity, they are equal members of the national body, regardless of religion. Our holy Orthodox religion does not recognize higher or lower quality based on race or religion. And our religion says there is neither Jewish nor Greek. It therefore condemns any attempt at discrimination.' With these shocking words from Archbishop Damasken's famous letter to the headquarters of the German occupation forces in March 1943, I, along with you, would like to honour this year's Memorial Day of the Greek Holocaust Witnesses. The Memorial Day of the Greek Jewish Witnesses concerns us all, because it was and will remain a part of ours. Because our Jewish brothers have witnessed in the hands of the conqueror. Because they were the same as before that they bravely defended the fairs of our country during the Asia Minor campaign and later during the Greek-Italian war, without hesitation, but with real solidarity, the Liberty and Self-Sacrifice. And soon after their time came, the time of the testimony. An inconceivable tragedy that starts from the major cities, such as Thessaloniki, ends up in the atrocity of concentration camps and the loss of nearly 90% of the Jewish population of Greece. Our fellow Members are among them. Their names have now been honored in the perimeter of the House: Daniel Allalum, Leon Gatene, Albert Chenio, and Jacques Ventura who witnessed in Auschwitz. Michel Kazes, who was executed along with the so-called Anaphotus, and David Sulam, who was also executed for retaliation. Mindes Bensangji and Isaac Siakki who left their last breath also in concentration camps. It is a long list that counts thirty Greek Jewish Members of the Nazi atrocities. We are honoring their memory today and the memory of all Jewish heroes and witnesses. I would like us all to continue with stubbornness and faith to work for a proud homeland, made of humanity and solidarity. Because such values know no borders, only roots deep in the hearts of the Greek people. On the other hand, the example of the Greek Jews and Christians, and in particular the drama of the Holocaust, teaches us and obliges us to continue to fight intolerance and darkness, to honor universal human values, to fight for our national and historical truths, for the truths of the Asia Minor, the Pontians and the Armenians, our Cypriot brothers, for every name and symbol that is falsified as far as we remain obscene, for the memories and history that have been distorted in the altar of strange interests. For all of this, therefore, and even more is worth uniting and fighting, because no historical memory, such as today, remains alive if you do not honour it with perseverance, ethos and consistency in the future. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to keep a minute's silence in the memory of the witnesses. [[At this point, all Members of Parliament stand up for a minute's silence]] Their memory is eternity!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u32	We continue and call to Stepma Mr. Andreas Blonde from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u33	As we said in committee, we are dealing with the ongoing steps of a very important project, a mutually beneficial partnership between the Greek public health system and a private institution, which is coming to help with a very important amount - the total donation with the development of projects will exceed EUR 300 million - in the political plan to support and upgrade public health in our country, in a period of budgetary closeness and at a time when a universal access line has been established for all citizens, without discrimination, in public hospitals and other public structures. The crucial element, and the important, is that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, comes to invest in the effort to upgrade the ESS - and this makes this donation very important - and in fact helps in a political project, which was implemented in previous years, which had as its characteristic elements, firstly, to ensure the survival of public care and, secondly, to ensure accessibility of public structures throughout the world. It was a social conquest of the country that within the crisis, the memorandum and the austerity, these two critical goals were achieved. And they were achieved because it just put back on the human potential of the health system, because it realized that there is an effort to support and improve, not to mutilate and privatize. It was also successful because there was a synergy of resources between the limited funds of the state budget and the resources of social security. We have often explained that the transfer of funds from EEAS to public structures has been overshadowed. There was also a methodical and structured intervention to exploit European funds of the NSRF, INTERREG programmes, the Ministry's Public Investment Program, the Ministry's reserve and, of course, many thankfully private donations, in addition to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. There is the Onassis Foundation, the Latsis Foundation, donations from families, OPAP and of course from self-government bodies such as the Attica Region. So, with this resource synergy, we have managed to survive public care and despite the fact that we have given more than two million additional citizens access to the public health system to have neither deficits nor a collapse of hospitals. We are, in principle, and in substance positive to this ratification of the convention. We have expressed a reservation, which we maintain, because the responses we received in the debate to the committee, in our view, were not sufficient, as far as the part of how the policy to deal with intra-purpose infections is being organised. This is an international issue, we have a national strategy, there is a national action plan, there is an institutional framework, there is a competent public body. We believe that there is a reasonable circumvention of this process, not only in education, but also in the level of monitoring of resistance and data utilization. It is very critical medical data that public bodies manage them. There is a matter of cooperation with the relevant European institutions, the ECDC, the European Centre for the Control of Infections. I think that the public interest is guaranteed by supervision, absolute and non-objectives, which the National Public Health Agency, which can ensure at this time, because it also has know-how and credibility, leads a European action programme, which is completed in August 2020, along with the National School of Public Health and the University of Crete. We are therefore in favour of this. But let me also make a reference to the great picture of the health system at this time. We now have a picture of arrhythmias in the functioning of the public health system, the functioning of critical parts of the ESS, the adequacy of medicines in our country's market. Some of these are special-sensitive drugs, antineoplastics, etc. The government's reflexes are very low and I think there is a mixture of low reflexes, oligoria, ignorance many times by people who have positions of responsibility and who have not been chosen in a remarkable way during the previous period, but I would also say an ideality towards the public health system. I believe that the crucial issue at this time is to invest additional resources in the public health system and, of course, to put in place quality assessment mechanisms for the services provided, to reorganise the system as a whole, so that the resources to be invested, human and material, can have greater social recompense. In the face of this line, which we have consistently and with difficulty in the previous period, the new government has a perception that we must now, that the health system in a way ensured its survival and its prospect, provide opportunities, give vital space to private investors, who are supposed to meet needs mainly in equipment and infrastructure to have a profitable, say, private activity, within the hard core of the ESS. We believe that this is a step towards undermining the public character of the ESS and a privatization step, and I believe that we must set up a serious social and political front in the face of the project. It is important and encouraging that at this time there are reactions from the workers, from health professionals, who are not at all friendly to the left, from patient clubs. This is the social alliance, which can project a strong resistance, but I think they also need political fronts. Health is, in my view, a privileged place to have progressive political shocks in the need to strengthen, support the universal health line, through an upgraded public health system and through an upgraded social state. This line will be followed and promoted consistently in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u34	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos has asked for the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin by the fact that Stavros Niarchus was the one who created the Scaramaga shipyards. He was a pioneer in building their large stone tank, which is today unique in the Eastern Mediterranean. However, the yards are closed at the request of the European Union, as usual due to state subsidies, as happened with companies like "OLYMPIAKI" and OSE, in order to sell them out. However, it is unacceptable that such an important unit for our defence industry and our shipping complex remain inert, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, considering that it is where donations should be directed today while shipowners should ensure that their fleet is maintained. Of course we are grateful for the amount that the institution contributes, with the addition of Sparta and the add-on to the EKAV of 25 million for buying two helicopters - instead of maintaining the existing ones that we think - as with additions to the existing schools of nurses, it can reach 400 million euros in our calculations, which we will also present in the Minutes. Continuing, the budget of hospitals for 2020, according to the State budget, shows expenditure of EUR 2.38 billion and revenues of EUR 2.33 billion. It therefore has a marginal surplus of EUR 50 million, but with continued illegal immigration it will be eliminated. Therefore, the present donation of the institution is approximately 10% of the annual budget. If we accept that the programme will be implemented in four to five years, then it represents up to 2.5% of the health budget each year, which is very important for our country. On the other hand, it was announced that a donation of EUR 6 million was agreed at a shipowners' meeting for the renovation of sanitary facilities and for the supply of bedcloths, which was described as a huge offer, at the same time as the shipowners did not pay the entire voluntary contribution expected at EUR 420 million and received only EUR 85 million, as we will also present in the Minutes. On SYRIZA, the sum had been reduced to EUR 40 million and was strictly criticised at that time by Mr Georgiadis, who has said nothing today. However, it should be noted that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has donated funds to non-profit organisations dealing with migration-refugee, especially during the 2015 mass influx. On his website there is a very large list of recipients that cannot be included here, and for example, we say that he supports an NGO called "ASTERIA", "STARFISH", with a significant presence in Mytilini. The NGO supports the Open Space office, as we will be tabling it in the Minutes. It is an office that appears as a supporter - a partner of the NGO "Advocates Abroad" that helps asylum seekers, recalling that it had erupted in the past when it was found that a NGO volunteer was conducting morals courses on those who applied for asylum, on how they could mislead staff from the relevant services to give them asylum, as we will also testify in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, not all of this is well known, nor is it in the intentions of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. In particular, with regard to the bill which, as usual, is rough and ambiguity, we again stress that our basic reservation relates to Article 2, where the NRP undertakes obligations that it may not be able to implement, so it would be safer for them to be involved together as contracting parties or as guarantors for respecting the obligations of both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. In his report, the General Accounting Office of the State does not quantify maintenance costs while it is obliged to provide a cost-benefit analysis. We are therefore wondering whether it is reasonable or necessary to maintain 105 million in a hospital of two hundred ten beds, when the original design was only 50 million. The rapporteur for the Greek Solution, Mrs Athanasios, has analysed the bill adequately by tabling our proposals, so there is no need to repeat ourselves. We shall therefore refer to the attacks that have been imposed by some opposition parties in the resolution of the last bill, firstly noting that we do not think it is right to intervene every time our party, like other colleagues, just to create impressions or to show ourselves by the media. Starting from SYRIZA, we believe that after his catastrophic period of governance, which, on the one hand, ensured with the enhanced analogy, on the other hand with the co-operation of a party, the ANELs, with a unique link between them, is not entitled to judge anyone, while, on the other, we consider the title "Left" to be distinguished according to the extreme neoliberal policy that it applied when governing Greece. In particular, SYRIZA operated anti-constitutional, not respecting the referendum and 62% of the Greeks. He literally betrayed his - in fact - left ideology, closed the banks, harming the country of EUR 45 billion, signed the third memorandum, forcing the opposition to support it, a memorandum guaranteeing all the previous ones, since it was the only one passed by nearly 230 MPs, founded the U.S. in 2016 as an independent body, surrendering the entire public property to creditors. In the same year he established the independent ADI, surrendering Greek taxpayers and their assets to creditors, also granted Macedonia's name in exchange for the extension of the EUR 95 billion incense for after 2032, after the same time he was plunging the head into Chancellor, left the country completely unarmed and so much more that it would be impossible to include them in a speech. As far as the exit from the memorials it invokes is concerned, it should be ashamed, as it obviously mocks the Greeks. We note that the definition of the memorandum is the obligation of primary surpluses by 2060, the policy of austerity, the forced sale of public property, the seizures and auctions of private - the houses of the Greeks, which are certainly not responsible for the inability to pay their debts, since the average annual income of bank debtors was reduced from about EUR 28 000 to EUR 8 000 - the ongoing controls of creditors and so on. The change of name of SYRIZA now under discussion, as happened with PASOK, will hardly help him. Continuing with the JRC, his Secretary-General's reference to the Greek Solution - who is certainly not a god, as his executives consider him - was extremely insulting, especially when he described our party as a shearing star that will not exist the next day. Of course, the Greek Solution is not a party of the system, such as the JRC, if we judge - among other things - the good cooperation of its officials with the New Democracy, the tolerance of the media, as well as the respect that the government has constantly shown to it. In simple terms, the Greek Solution has not been guaranteed its re-election with almost the same percentages of 5% each time. Among other things, without fear of the attacks by the media when they see how its electoral force is growing. Furthermore, it does not have the ability to mix the same dogmatics, not to take a position in the bills, such as the JRC, by voting firmly 'no' or 'no' and to propose methods that are not applied anywhere on the planet. Besides, perhaps, from North Korea, even Communist China has adopted the capitalist model of its economy. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] It would be disgraceful that the Greek Solution would be contrary to the European Union, but by participating in the European Parliament with its poor wages, it would receive more than EUR 1 million annual grant from the system that it allegedly condemns plus the salaries of the Members of Parliament, and so on. With regard to Mera25, the head of which is also called the Secretary-General, if the reason in this House is the fear of punishment for the first half of 2015, he must be right, since his responsibilities are large, although very difficult to calculate precisely with the exception of the EUR 45 billion losses from the closure of the banks. Obviously, if he had taken his measures as he had to, after planning the conflict with creditors, by imposing immediately after the election of the capital controls, there would be no more than EUR 30 billion out of sight and banks would not be closed down. Illegal, of course, by the European Central Bank, but it was certainly anticipated that Germany would attack. Unfortunately, he was raped to accept the entire public debt without even checking it, with his statements on 20 February, a few days after the Ministry of Finance took over. In simple terms, he wanted to wage war by throwing away all his weapons before, which is probably not reasonable. As far as the final level of damage caused to Greece is concerned, no one can count, since our country could have participated in the European Central Bank's Quantitative Facility programme that started in March 2015, not to have returned to conditions of deep recession, not to have stopped bank lending, not to have signed the third memorandum, not to have founded the excess and ADP etc. In conclusion, in PASOK, we have mentioned with greater responsibility the enlargement of the budget deficits by ELSTAT, through the change of methodology, only for Greece, as the former Minister of Finance of the New Democracy and current President of the "ELLENIC PIRES" will soon be sold out to Mr. Latsis, Mr. Papathanasios. It is, however, proven that Greece was deliberately driven to the IMF and to the memoranda with what happened after the election of PASOK in 2009 and everyone knows it, so there is no reason to repeat it. The New Democracy has, of course, most of the responsibility, since it overrun Greece for five years 2004-2009 and then went bankrupt with PASOK in 2012, with the signature of the criminal PSI, with the handover of our national sovereignty and the mortgage of everything, after betraying its voters by failing to comply with its election commitments, I remind you, in Zappeion, that it has now been subjected to the memorials and Chancellorio. It does not even hesitate to refer to Greece's appeal to The Hague for matters that are of interest only to Turkey, thereby continuing with the voluntaryly dampening policy leading to the conversion of our country into a country - satellite. In conclusion, there is no other party in the House that could support a healthy thoughtful Greek apart from the Greek Solution, at least until it has been tested, but certainly on the basis of its detailed programme of governance, which was drawn up long before it was elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Villard. Mr Davakis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I have said on several occasions in this Chamber and, besides, that the fate of this place, the survival of this place is due, in my view, to two factors. One is the struggles and sacrifices of the Greek people from the ancient times to the present day and the other is the great offering of their benefactors, all those who are - and especially the benefactors of the Diaspora - who have been abroad constantly attributes to the mother home. One case of these benefactors is also a poor child from the Bamvakos of Laconia, who grew abroad with the eternal Greek spirit and who continued this tradition, Stavros Niarchos. And it is particularly important that this tradition continues and the descendants of Stavros Niarchus, giving home, our country, Greece, what they can deliver and are important. In the context of this rich social offer, in September 2017, with the then political leadership of the Ministry of Health, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation announced its intention to fully undertake the financing of a series of projects in the field of health, with a budget of around 400 million euros. Today, we are dominating the first group of these conventions which really give a favourable perspective for the health sector, the multi-faceted health sector in our country, and I believe that this will be something very important to the Greek people. The two of the five points in these conventions, the two of which concern improving the health care situation, namely the training of nurses and strengthening the nursing industry, an important sector, which I would say is the iron hand in the health sector after medical personnel. I welcome today's ratification of these conventions, Minister, which of course I will support, as most of my colleagues in this Chamber believe, with our vote. As a representative of the people of Laconos, however, I should like to mention - and I am glad that the Secretary-General is here - and the issue of the construction of Sparta's new hospital. As you may remember, ladies and gentlemen, this convention, which is not part of today's bill - not to be confused - creates a very good perspective. It must be voted on by 30 November 2020 and it had come for ratification about a month and a half ago in this Chamber. It is on the right track, and I hope, Mr Minister, that this grand offer from the Stavros Niarchus Foundation to Laconia, to Sparta, to set up a completely new hospital, will be supported - I am sure - by the Minister's political leadership in a proper manner, as has already been done and we have tangible samples of this aid, and by means of the 6th RCF, which, at an intense rate, creates a good climate in order to strengthen and deliver this offer, but also by the political leadership, which has the main responsibility of these efforts and these actions. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'Health Initiative' programme of the Stavros Niarchus Foundation, part of whose works we are currently dominating, must, in my view, be the starting point for the upgrading of public health in Greece and especially in parts of the region, such as Laconia. I also heard a colleague from the Greek Solution, but I will not share her views that create, I would say, bitter feelings regarding the Foundation's status, etc. They don't fit in this room that kind of feeling. Of course, the Ministry of Health, as a public representative of the Greek state, must bear in mind that the main targeting of its actions on health issues is mainly the issue of the Ministry of Health and not the various institutions they support. They must welcome and support these institutions - and we must thank them, of course - but the main obligation of the Greek state is the performance of appropriate, decent conditions and conditions of health to Greek citizens. However, the establishments and health issues, such as those in the Greek region, have to do with regions such as Laconia. I take this opportunity, because there is a representative of the political leadership, to say that, in combination with the creation of the new Sparta Hospital, there are issues which have to do with the shortages of personnel at the Molas hospital, with the need to operate on a 24-hour basis of the ambulances of the EKA and the Molas, as well as the establishment of the EKAB area in Naples, Mr Minister, at this extreme point in the Greek south, which has huge health issues, with ships, wrecks, tourism issues - many tourists come and the population is growing tenfold in this area - and much more that I want you to see. I recently visited an excellent partner of yours, the President of the EMCDDA, who told me attributes - and I would like you to hear this - that together with the thousand five hundred police officers hired by the government - and it did well because security issues are very important - if he hired a thousand five hundred EAEC rescuers, we would have solved the issue of the conferences. The third world states of patients, who are also begging our offices - and I am ashamed to say this from this position - for a period of time must stop. I believe that you will press as much as you can on the central government system as you can to ensure that there are such recruitments of EKD survivors to serve the ambulances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, as we are discussing issues concerning the education of nurses in our country today and as we are facing the establishment of a new, model hospital in Sparta, in the capital of Laconia, it would be a pity, Minister, not to mention once again the question of returning to Sparta of the Nursing School. As you may be aware, in secret and inspiring, by the Gavroglou monastery, as called by the then responsible in the education sector and now Minister of Education, Mrs Kerameos, the School of Nursing from Sparta has been abducted and went to Tripoli, on the grounds that there is no proper clinical training for students. It is a pity - I say again - to recognise, with our vote today, the need to upgrade the education of nurses and, on the other hand, to take, with suggestions - from this position - the professorial establishment and other interests, a nursing school with private buildings, with all conditions, which were effective and with clinical education on the part of heroes called doctors at Sparta Hospital and Molas and to take her to Tripoli for some other interests. I repeat the request of the People's People to reinstate, with certain arguments, the Nursing School in Sparta. In other words, I am sure that these initiatives, such as the Stavros Niarchus Foundation, and other institutions, will benefit from the appropriate application on the part of the sole responsible, who are the servants of the Greek people, who today, with the vote of this people, are the Mitsotakis Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and four teachers - their attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of the most beautiful Evia, which I invite you to visit, those who have not done so. They also have processing industry and can be a center for very nice excursions, from Mandudi, Afladi, and everywhere. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Agathopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, as our rapporteur has said, we support the ratification of individual donation agreements by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Moreover, it is a contract which in its original form had formed and had been concluded by the SYRIZA Government, a contract by a public-private institution with the State. The detail is that the State kept, at all stages of the contract, the right and the initiative to set these terms and conditions in favour of the public interest and patients, without any obligation to the investor and of course no margin of speculation by the latter. So this tactic followed by SYRIZA and the head of the Ministry of Health when concluding the initial contract with the Joint Benefit Foundation is something quite different from what you, fellow Members of the New Democracy, have announced from the day you took over and from what you want to implement for the partnerships with the purely private sector, whose purpose by definition is profit and only that. The most important thing, however, is that, at the time when you - and you will even bring in the next few days, as far as we know, a bill in this House - are shaping the framework for the private sector that we have mentioned, you are dramatically delaying the strengthening of the HR with human and essential materials. Over the past few days we have all become witnesses to hospitals falling apart due to serious shortages of materials, reagents and staff. In the last few weeks every day, a hospital will get a statement that it can't work, clinically close, surgery is not carried out, laboratory exams are not carried out. The other day, it was "Saint Olga", the other day, it was "Alexandra", and we fear that this story will continue. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you accept that this is the case, or if the news does not say it, you also think it is not the case. Because anyone who is daily in the field and who needs public services is surely aware that they are in place, and unfortunately we are also confirmed that since the first day you have taken, for the past six months, looking at your realities and your announcements, we have already told all tons that you are driving to depreciate both public hospitals and public health in general, to show at the end public-private partnerships as a panacea and as the only solution to enhance public health. Furthermore, Minister, there is a huge disturbance these days over the shortages of medicinal products on the market. Incidentally, in today's contract there is also an amendment giving an extension to the compensatory measure of zero participation in medicinal products for those who have lost the CSR, and you are obviously doing well to bring this extension, but you are also bringing the regulation on the disposal of high-cost medicines from the pharmacy. Only in a short time, Minister, there will be no drugs to implement these two amendments, because the shortcomings have actually come to an unprecedented point these days. Patients, such as the Greek Cancer Federation, have already been placed in public clubs, for deficiencies in basic anti-neoplastic drugs, drug clubs from all over Greece, as well as the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association, which prick the alarm that there are no drugs on the market. On the other hand, however, we saw Mr. Kikilia doing that he doesn't understand, that none of this is true, and, of course, EOF from behind, on the same line. We would like you to explain to us and tell us, Mr Secretary, why you are here today, if you agree with this unprecedented, if you would like, behaviour on the part of the Ministry to deceive and contaminate both the collective organs of pharmacists and the patients themselves, by counting false news and harming their very credibility. You say there are no shortages on the market. That's what Mr. Kikilis said, to tell things by their name, and that it's one of the wicked, all that's called, or constructions of some fantasy. I think, with all the appreciation, that it does not honor the Ministry and its leadership to say these things and it is an opportunity, Mr Contozamanis, today to withdraw, understand and accept that there is a problem and take immediate measures. To make it easier for you in the minutes to submit the letter from the Pharmaceutical Association Kilkis yesterday at a meeting that he asked for and had with all the Members of the county, as well as the list of elliptical medicines he has drawn up, as requested by the EOF from all the clubs. I'm going to testify to you some other elliptical drug lists that are from the pharmacies' orders, Minister. Anything red you see here is in a shortage. I think there are too many of these drugs that are in a shortage right now. Look at them and tell us if there have been so many other cases of drug shortages on the Greek market. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, the reported shortcomings are more than four hundred drugs, and we very much fear that there will be no medicine on the market to serve the citizens, since the problem of exports has been greatly intensified, Mr Minister, and a political decision is needed to resolve and normalise the situation at the moment on the market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll close by saying something to make people understand what we mean when we say export problem. Exports of drugs are obviously not illegal. They follow market and free trade rules. But why are exports currently preferred and the domestic market is left on a second fate? This is a product that - we have said too many times and on our own, we have done so as well - acted first and foremost as a social commodity and secondly as a commodity. For example, a medicinal product that can cost EUR 1 to EUR 2, is imported into our country, remains one night in a warehouse and is then re-exported, for example in Germany, where the price is EUR 25. That's how some of them speculate. The state seems to export and benefit politically from it, while the pharmaceutical industries are also served. So everyone gets won except for the citizen looking for his medicine. The deficiencies, Minister, are many in children's vaccines, insulins, antihypertensives, anti-neoplastics, all types of drugs. Patients' clubs and workers' clubs have been hit by the alarm. You must take the initiative. First of all, to recognise the problem, because so far you say that there is no, and to make a political decision to resolve the issue of the proper existence of medicinal products on the market today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too. Because Mr Papadopoulos of SYRIZA is the last speaker, please any parliamentary representative wants to speak with the Secretariat. After that, the Minister will close to the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u41	What about the secondarys?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u42	And the secondary lists of any rapporteurs and special speakers. Please consult the secretariat. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u43	Fortunately there are also institutions which realize a different quality partnership between the private sector and the National Health System. The donations that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has decided to make, the "National" Foundation, the "Vardinoyannis", the OPAP, and even the Shipowners' Union, are in the sense of strengthening and supporting the National Health System, where the needs that the donors really want to serve, and have nothing to do with, colleagues of the New Democracy and anyone else who has this view, with the public-private partnership where they see the bleeding of resources from the EEA, the National Health System, because the public-owned entrepreneurship there aims. And what you're doing - and you're bringing us a bill - is strengthening state-owned entrepreneurship. All we are now discussing with the help of Komotini hospital, the Children's Hospital in Thessaloniki, the "Evangelism", the Sparta Hospital, the Aerospace Hospital, the possibility of strengthening programmes that are valuable for both intra-Holy infections and the trauma, are issues that can be integrated into a comprehensive design and support for the quality upgrade of the National Health System. In no case, however, does it justify a policy such as this, which has established the way in which it is financially intervening with the National Health System. See a little, dear Minister, what you do with the support of the National Health System, with its funding in the 2020 budget. We had seen a long time ago that Greece's path after the suffocating guardianship of lenders was a course of monitoring what is going on in the European area with the average of funding that goes close to 7%. And you're the one who's looking for the expenditure. It comes out yesterday in an interview with the Minister, and what does he say? He says: "We have backup. The Shipowners' Union takes us to bed covers. He said: 'We have public hospital aid', when the persistent question he accepted was 'what exactly are you doing in departments that close down, in hospitals that are not even able to implement on-call programmes'. We learned on a visit to Central Greece that the hospital of Livadea from a lack of anesthetics cannot carry out a program of newspapers, it can not do surgery. Such problems have therefore come to light at the moment. Also, the problem with drugs, which my colleague spoke about before, is very serious because the shortcomings are established. So they cannot get vague answers from the current head of the Ministry of Health. It tells us, for example, 'yes, we know the needs, but there is a European problem to deal with cancer'. Thank you very much, but with regard to all the issues relating to special diseases and diseases in time, where we need to see how we intervene, it is an overall issue of an intervention policy in the National Health System, which cannot be confined to donations. That's not it. The donations are welcome. To honor the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for all that it does with the consent of the prior leadership of the Ministry of Health, which indicated where these donations should be made. Of course he also worked with the former Prime Minister. And all this is welcome to continue. However, we believe that you have an obligation to all Greek citizens but also to those who come as visitors to the country, to those who live in the country, to refugees and immigrants living in our country, to a comprehensive health intervention system. You can, for example, present the issues that are now being raised with the coronary, with the other epidemics, that is, the role of the EGE. Does it cover what is going on so far with your own supervisory image vis-à-vis EACH? Does the information of all citizens about what preventive measures should be taken? Does the relationship you have or do not have, with local health units, with the family pediatricians, with the family doctors, with the team that works and which can also make home visits so that he can help? Of course it does not cover, because you are no longer a government which depleted in the first half of the year only by intent announcements, and at the level of real policy, we do not have samples of exactly what is being done in the field of health, that your intervention is taking place somewhere. You canceled for 2019 a two and a half thousand post notice: The thousands would be for doctors who need the subordinated departments, who need the emergency departments that the units need, and another thousand five hundred posts were nursing staff, which we need. Because it is not only enough to see that something else needs to be done as a structure, it also needs the necessary staff. We had planned a four-year recruitment programme, at the level of ten thousand in four years, which, unfortunately, we do not see you following. We therefore say very welcome that donations do very well to strengthen and upgrade the possibilities of the National Health System, which is where we want the real partnership of the private sector with the National Health System. But to do anything else that a mature need for our country, in new facts, is to be able to implement it. Quality upgrading of the National Health System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Acharnon High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to support Amendment No 145/13, and in particular with regard to the first article of the amendment, we all know that there has been a gradual abolition of the CSR measure until its definitive abolition in December 2019 and a compensatory benefit provided for the reduced participation in the pharmaceutical expenditure of the beneficiaries of the CSR. We are prolonging this compensatory benefit for one year until 31 December 2020. With the second article we also extend a regulation which expired on 31 December 2019 to cover the positions of doctors in the National Health System and in fact, by this provision we extend the period of banning doctors who are already serving in the National Health System so that we can give the opportunity by calling the positions of doctors, new entrants in the Medical System to take their place in the National Health System. Furthermore, on the third and fourth Article, the procedures are regulated in order to operate the high-cost pharmaceutical platform in the EEAS and to distribute high-cost medicinal products to neighborhood pharmacies. Finally, there is a legislative improvement in Article 2 of the draft law. After the words ‘in the Official Journal of the Government’, the words ‘unless otherwise specified’ shall be added. As far as ratification is concerned and the content of the draft law is concerned, let me once again - we had said so during the debate in committee - to say that it is very important that the Health Initiative was adopted by a large majority in the Greek Parliament. We must recognise the contribution of such donations to the country and, in particular, to the health system. The Stavros Niarchos Foundation and other institutions and individuals who contribute to the implementation of donations are the modern national benefactors, demonstrating the greatness of the Greeks, as well as the obligation of the state to operate the structures and programs for the benefit of the citizens. I would once again like to emphasise the fact, because there is concern on the part of the Anti-Population regarding the infections and responsibilities of the National Public Health Agency, that the EGE, in accordance with the existing legislation, remains the body responsible for monitoring and preventing hospital infections and will, of course, continue to implement its action in the hospitals of the country. With the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, however, we are attempting to create a model with the tools offered by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, so that this model can sometime be applied to the other hospitals in the country. Also, I must stress that in the trauma the AEMY has supervision through AMKE "Regeneration & Progress" and in infections the AMKE-CLEON. All these are options through the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. I would like to stress here, however, that the surveillance of AEMY is in the wound, and indeed we are in the process of drawing up a plan, so that there can also be trauma centres throughout the territory. As far as infections are concerned, as the draft law provides for, the Health Assurance Agency will have it. As we have said in committee, it will be set up by the end of February, and it is a flagrant reform in the field of health, since it is coming to cover a great gap in certification and quality assurance for health services. Of course, the aim of the EGE will be to improve the quality, strengthen patient safety and strategic health planning, to reorganise and upgrade health services, with a view to equal access and universal coverage of the population. In other words, every project carried out by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is supervised by the relevant state bodies and the Ministry of Health. I would also like to clarify something which has been said and which relates mainly to the participation of students in the ATLS programme, of nurses and rescuers in the other educational programmes. Indeed, there is a small participation and the reason is that this was done in order to enable more students, more diagnoses and nurses to take part in these programmes. We believe that we will somehow be able, in particular, to cover the number of nurses and rescuers in the wider public sector, in some way, which will be called upon to pay. Finally, with regard to what has been said by Members of Parliament and the current state of health of the Ministry of Health, we must stress once again that no clinic has been closed in the hospitals of the National Health System, no oligopoly and ignorance exists as regards the functioning of the National Health System and, of course, the problem with drug shortages. We are making all the necessary steps to normalise the problem with the shortcomings. You know, you have had experience since you were in the country's governance, the problem of deficits first has to be certified. It must be certified and we must not just stand on different lists, which are circulated. We have taken concrete action, in addition to the problems that exist in world production and are causing problems from time to time in our country, but also in other countries, we have taken immediate measures such as the banning of specific preparations, which are inadequate and, of course, the full recording of the real deficiencies and I insist on the term'real deficiencies' and we need to certify that the number of preparations which are in a shortage does not matter, but the number of active substances that may be deficient, because in a therapeutic category there are too many alternatives. Therefore, the deficiency should be certified at the level of the therapeutic class. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. We are entering the last round of today's debate. Let us agree this, to the extent he wants, to speak one of each party, either a parliamentary representative or a speaker. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u47	And the Minister will close at the end, since he's here. Minister, do you want to speak now and leave or do you want to close the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, the Undersecretary supports the bill. I have only come for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u49	And the amendment must be tabled to share it with the legislators.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u50	He's been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u51	They haven't taken her from what I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u52	It's the amendment to the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u53	For the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u54	For the ESS, in fact. I wasn't in the Chair at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u55	I apologise, Mr President, for the misunderstanding. Under the law, the Minister must support...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u56	No problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u57	...formal and institutional. That is why I have only been here for five minutes, ladies and gentlemen. I will not eat your time. I would like to say on the amendment which has been tabled that we accept it, as well as on the legal basis. And we're making a change in the title. the words ‘and other provisions’ shall be added.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u58	What is the heart of this amendment? It is - and I think you all agree - that after the abolition of the Katrugalos law, this has come to assemble for the low pensioners - it concerns over four hundred and fifty thousand pensioners - participation with an increased rate of 25% in e-prescription. We are therefore in an amendment and, first of all, we are regulating not to burden all our fellow citizens, who are in great need, with 25% of electronic prescribing. They won't be burdened at all. One part is that. The other part concerns a commitment we have made. These amendments relate to the distribution of expensive drugs, PSKs, to pedagogical patients in neighborhood pharmacies. I think that we are consistent with a policy which has to do with the vulnerable groups, which has to do with the Ministry of Health, which we understand as a people's ministry, with a wide popular response to needs. This policy is about those who do not, with those who cannot, with the vulnerable groups, with all our fellow citizens who want and must enjoy the social good of health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u59	Thank you. To solve any misunderstandings, what Mr Kontozamanis said was as follows. It's not legal in the amendment that was distributed to you. What he said is that in the last article the words 'and other provisions' are added. Okay? Is it clean? Isn't that right, Minister? Is the other legal improvement in the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u60	It's not in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u61	Yeah, they're somewhere else. That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u62	What has shared us has not changed. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u63	It hasn't changed. That's what we're saying. There is a legislative improvement concerning the second article of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I should like to explain a little bit of the legislative improvement. It concerns the retroactive effect of the provision from 1-1-2020 as regards the participation of the beneficiaries of the CRP in the pharmaceutical expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u65	Yes, sir. Now, Mr. Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, the Holocaust atrocity has been recorded in the collective memory of nations, in the collective memory of mankind, as one of the saddest, darkest pages of world history. As you know, the Third Reich with inhumane methods and with the idea of the final solution eliminated millions of Jews and not only Jews, but also other minorities that Nazi racism considered enemies, such as Roma, homosexuals, people with physical or spiritual disabilities. Our country paid a heavy price, as some seventy thousand Greek Jews were exterminated and almost completely destroyed by the Jewish community of Thessaloniki. Today, the best way of rewarding victims' memory is to strengthen and shield the institutions of democracy so that we do not again allow forces that regenerate hatred and racism, taking advantage of the fears or concerns of citizens, to infiltrate and shake the foundations of open societies, social cohesion and the goods of freedom and democracy. As far as the New Democracy is concerned, we say that we are determined not to allow them. With regard to the draft law proposed by the Ministry of Health now, I must say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the regulatory field of the 'Stavros Niarchos' Foundation is being completed, which provides substantial funds for the upgrading of public health, particularly in the fields of prevention and treatment, in a way which guarantees - as the Deputy Minister has explained in response to the concerns of the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement - the transparency and the unequal allocation of resources. I would like to say a few words in response to the SYRIZA colleagues who spoke to the former Minister of Health and Mr Papadopoulos, who spoke from the Step of the National Representation. Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that we have received a health system subordinated and with insufficient resources. The inability of hospitals to regulate on-calls has not come up now. I'm going to tell you the example, I know very well, of the General Hospital of Amphissa. Six months ago, unfortunately, it was unable to function due to a lack of medical pathology, and it was almost impossible to regulate hospital and health center on-calls. This is therefore a situation which was bad, not to say painful, when the New Democracy rule began. Efforts are being made to improve it. From the first moment on, we have started implementing our election programme with a focus on prevention. I must remind you that the spearhead of the New Democracy health preventive policy was, and is still, the anti-smoking law. When the attempt to convince the Greek society of the application of the anti-smoking law began, there were many reservations and the "Cassandras" rushed to claim that this measure would not be implemented. Today, weeks after its full implementation, we see the results, the positive results for society, thanks to the perseverance of the Prime Minister and the political will of the Ministry of Health. At the same time, we are implementing all the pre-election announcements for targeted recruitment in the health sector, so that we can serve the health units to provide decent care conditions for Greek citizens and citizens who need health services, the real estate upgrade of hospitals, as well as the provision of resources so that patients have the medicines necessary to restore their health and in time. All this is an effort that will continue. Already bears fruit. I think that its results are visible to Greek society and to Greek citizens. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to wish the example of the Foundation to find imitators in Greek society, because we need people from private bodies who contribute to upgrading the health system and, more generally, to improving the structures and infrastructures of the Greek state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Buga. Mrs. Bakada, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the ratification of the conventions of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation with the Greek State and according to the explanatory statement that we all have in our hands, the aim is to upgrade health infrastructures, and this is essentially and practically an update of an earlier contract concluded by the previous government and the current one is coming to continue. The new updated format is certainly improved in relation to the previous version, as both the amount of the donation has been increased and the fields of application have been renewed and widened. Also, undeniably, any improvement in an area that has been affected so much after ten years of crisis and memorials, such as health, is positive, as it comes to dealing with real and everyday problems that afflict us all. The reason for our attitude to the agreement stems from our view that the outsourcing that has been able to carry out the state even in such a fundamental constitutional obligation is entirely negative. Once again, Article 21 of the Constitution is being circumvented, and it stipulates that the state must ensure that citizens' health is taken care of. But where are we ten years and four memos later? In a country where almost all health structures either primary or secondary function without necessary logistics or adequate numbers of nurses and doctors. So we are going to turn to donations from individuals and institutions that come to cover gaps and improve problems, and we are very afraid that, unfortunately, the private sector will gradually take an even more active role, and we will ultimately have a privatisation of hospitals and health structures. Allow me here to make a very brief reference to all the problems that our fellow citizens have to deal with every day. As elected in the Second Region of Piraeus, I have often witnessed and received complaints and protests from citizens, as I imagine almost all colleagues, about the situation in hospitals and health centres there. Let's start from Salamis, which is the largest island of the Argosaronic, but, unfortunately, with incomplete health structures. First of all, basic specialities are lacking, such as pediatrician, cardiologist, orthopaedicist, endocrinologist and many others. Unfortunately, the existing doctors, despite their superhuman efforts, are unable to meet the needs, while the situation is clearly deteriorating in the summer, as well as the number of visitors and permanent residents is increasing, while if a serious incident arises, this should be transferred to Piraeus, which puts every potential patient's life directly at risk, since one of the two ambulances that has the island should leave to take him to Piraeus. Also, the center doctor should abandon it, because the ambulance Salamis has no mobile unit. At the same time, regular clinics only operate in the morning hours, leaving many workers out of the opportunity to visit them. In addition, the housing building needs sound insulation, thermal insulation, wet insulation and other repairs. The inhabitants of Perama after the great fire that destroyed the health center, expect the promises made this year that in 2020 they will have the new health center in their hands. The same goes for Drapetson. As far as Nice is concerned, the problems of the General State are well known. Restraint, shortcomings in medicines, serious problems in feeding patients, disgusting storage conditions of their records and files, problems in heating, due to an old system of central air conditioning that should be replaced and not repaired, as happened in January 19 and January 20. So when we have such serious health problems, we consider it necessary to draw up a comprehensive plan for the reconstruction of the health sector and not to leave the state to take care of its citizens in the charity of some individuals to keep a misguided public health substantially alive. Our fundamental opposition to this shift of things, while at the same time aware of the terrible needs of which this convention is part, leads to the position that we have taken from the outset in the draft legislation under discussion. If we turn back now - and I will close with this - a little back in the days of the debate and of the vote on the 2020 budget, we will see that the financing of hospitals has been reduced by an additional 37 million compared with the 19th year in which it had already been reduced by 65 million. As regards primary health care, the new budget provided for a reduction of about 4.5m euros, while funding to the EEAS remained stable with that of last year. At the same time, any increases that will be called upon to be imposed on citizens by means of insurance contributions will lead to an additional allocation of EUR 85 million. As we all understand, these amounts will not in any way overthrow the curse in which health expenditure has been incurred over the last ten years, which has a direct impact on patients and workers and which makes it difficult for all of us to live together. Nevertheless, we hope that, although it tends to prove a fruitful hope, we will improve the situation and have no further deterioration of the health services provided, so that it can also be delivered to individuals who will create health services for the few and the having, with the many and the non-existent to receive incomplete care and be deprived of fundamental and inalienable rights, such as care and health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk a little bit about the Holocaust. A sad day for the Holocaust that Nazi Germany has done today. I would also like to say that the Greek Solution is, of course, like all of us, against racism and fascism and their consequences. As far as the amendment is concerned, I consider this zero participation to be positive for our fellow citizens who have lost the CSCE, but I find it unfair to lose their financial assistance. As for the extension of the two years to the ESS doctors, I would like to place myself, Mr President, by saying that we need to motivate doctors in the province to go and stay in our islands, to our locusts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Parliamentarian Maria - Alexandra Heads of State from New Democracy seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for private reasons from February 1st to February 23rd. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u72	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer first to the amendment tabled by the Ministry. We shall repeat once again that it relates to an amendment with different provisions, one of which does not give the right to a party, a group of Members, a Member of Parliament, a different view of voting in favour and possibly another vote in favour. Now, as far as the amendment is concerned, we are dealing with the whole of the vote on the amendment positive on the basis of the provision, the regulation of the first article, which, for just a year, has been limited, and the ESS has been exempted from taking part in the medicines of those who have retired. And we're talking about those people, those retired people who have paid for free drugs in their working life, they've paid gold and they should have them for free. At the same time, as the General Accounting Office of the State has referred to, it does not assess what any expenditure is estimated. And who's gonna pay? Of course - and here we are focusing on the report on this amendment - we are not, in our opinion, talking about a compensatory measure, as referred to in this article. It comes to cover the gaps in the legislation that existed by the adoption and application of the Katrugalos law. These are to be covered by Brutsi's new reinsurance law, which, as I see it, will be submitted and discussed in the House next time. We heard the Greek Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party a little while ago. Actually, what happened? We were re-establishing the well-known sour soup from the past in the context of an anti-communist delirium and history, which in practice confirms the political role that this party has undertaken to serve. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. MEP Evangelos Syrigos seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from Thursday, January 30th to Sunday, February 2nd. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u75	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We're moving on with Mr. Birds from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wanted to refer to the amendment and to the first article on zero participation for the low pensioners who received the CSR. You give it to them for a year. After a year, what will happen? We did not get an answer to that. So, we're gonna have them hostages? Are we going to solve this in the course of the year? This is a matter which we must take seriously, because it concerns four hundred thousand - if I am not mistaken - people who took the CSCE. Poorly, of course, the ESS has been cut. The policies of the previous government have led to where they led. We must, however, take this matter seriously. My second point concerns the distribution of high-cost medicines. EPPY has pharmacies. But pharmacies do not exist in all the prefectures of the country. There are prefectures right now where they don't have a pharmacy. So you need to do one action and make EPOS pharmacies in every prefecture. It's a lot of service. I will give you an example. Argolida doesn't. Where are the Argolides going to take the drugs? Tripoli. Tripoli also serves the Laconia Prefecture. Because neither in Laconia is there a pharmacy in the EEA. We should definitely see that. It's important. I am not now going to the other chapter on the Disability Certification Centres, where we have suffered the same problem, as they go from Argolida to Corinthia or to the Arcadia Prefecture to pass disabled people from the Certification Committee. It is not your responsibility, but I mention it because of the problem that exists and the drugs of the EEA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I have a feeling that some colleagues are very quickly forgetting. After August 2018 we came out of the memos. Until then, our lenders, the troika and the institutions have intervened and decided on political decisions, and tell them what you want. The ESS has been cut at the request of the lenders. The previous government has introduced the extension of the free supply of medicines to a category that has been deprived of the CSR until 31/12-2019. We agree with the extension until 31/12-2020 and in that sense we are voting on the amendment. Secondly, the comprehensive draft law brought about by the government, without prejudice to what we have said and explained in our position on the bypass, for us, of the EAFRD and on the financing of the treatment of infections, we are voting in favour of it. Third and last. As we said in our report, Mr President, we are handing over a public health system to heal its wounds. Of course, that is - everyone understands - different from the public health system on the edge of the cliff that we have received and also different from the public health system without problems. We never claimed that. This is why, as we have said in the report, it is not just about the Hospital of Amphissa, which was said by the representative of the New Democracy. In all hospitals we had ready recruitments: the two and a half thousand intakes for the freezing hospitals, the more than four hundred intakes for the hospital's TDIs, the hirings declared barren in health centers. That is why we said in our suggestion that the delay, at this very moment in time we are discussing, is coming to worsen existing problems. In the Committee's debate, the Minister said that they are discussing a way of speeding up the recruitment process. Accepted! I wish we could speed up all these processes. However, we are simply stressing this, without either tranquilising the situation or seeing the white one. It is at a stage when these recruitments are absolutely essential for the functioning of the system and, in our view, the government must speed up all these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Cretan has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, all that has to be said has been said. The donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is on the way to what we all want to draw for health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u82	No, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u83	The debate on the principle, article and amendment of the draft law of the Ministry of Health is closed: "Following its individual donation contracts from 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State in order to strengthen and upgrade the infrastructure in the field of health, which was ratified by v. 4564/2018 (A' 170) and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the article, the amendment and the whole, and they will be voted on separately and in an electronic way. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the draft law, an article, an amendment, a farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you have to "play" the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed the article, the amendment, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u84	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u85	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u86	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Repeal of its individual donation contracts from 6.9.2018 Donation contract between the Foundation ‘Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation’ and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructures ratified by Law 4564/2018 (A.170) and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Article and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u87	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u88	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-27-S1-commons.u89	With the consent of the House at 14.17 the meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday, January 28, 2020, on the subject of Parliament's work, legislative work: only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "A birth allowance and other provisions".
