ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Following the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus, the State of Israel, the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on a system of transport of natural gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 May 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting organised, single on principle and on articles. With regard to the discussion procedure, although Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure gives limited speaking opportunity to those who object, due to the importance of the agreement I propose that rapporteurs and special speakers be placed for fifteen minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for twelve minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes in accordance with Rules 64, 97, 98 and 107 of the Rules of Procedure. It is also proposed that Parliamentary Groups be represented, if they so wish, in a circle of fifteen MPs as follows: Six Members from New Democracy, three MPs from SYRIZA, two MPs from the Change Movement, two MPs from the Communist Party and one MEP from the Greek Solution and from Mera25 respectively. As you can see, there has been an infringement of Parliament's Rules of Procedure by agreement between the parties because of the importance of the matter. I think that once again it has been done with a request from the Communist Party. It is therefore a special meeting on this issue and not that it is a future practice when we come back to full regularity. Depending on how the debate will go - I think it will go without any problem - there may be time for them to have a second-guess, if they wish, for the Members or rapporteurs from the parties. So I have your unanimous agreement. We are starting with the rapporteur-general from New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Ciridis. Mr. Courides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Last Monday the committee responsible approved and now brought to plenary with a strong cross-party majority the transnational agreement on the construction of the gas pipeline, known as EastMed. It is important and I would like to begin by stressing that it has voted in favour, in addition to the government majority, and the Civic Opposition of SYRIZA. I really welcome this consensus on behalf of the government. Besides, the project itself is a product of a cross-party and time-consuming agreement that started in 2011. And as the Minister responsible stressed, giving credit, they were present at the signature of the pipeline on January 2, and Yiannis Maniatis, the Minister who started it, both ministers of SYRIZA, Panos Skourletis and George Stathakis. I think it is important for our political system to send this message of cross-party and time planning. EastMed, ladies and gentlemen, is an ambitious project and an excellent, geostrategic project of the Hellenic Republic. It will carry 10 billion cubic metres of gas into the first phase per year from the underwater deposits of Israel to Italy through Cyprus and Greece. It will reach a total of more than two thousand kilometres, of which one thousand six hundred seventy two, if I remember correctly, over 3⁄4, will run the Greek territory either on land or underwater the Greek shelf. To have a size class, as Mrs Kafantari said, today the consumption in our country is just over four billion cubic metres a year. It'll be five. At a total cost of $6 billion, the project has been certified as technically possible - I want to highlight this - and as economically viable. It will be financed from private funds. Besides, the final study of the project is funded by the European Union - and this is important - which has long been integrated into its energy planning. The transnational agreement opens the way for the final decision of investors in 2021, the start of work in 2022 and the completion of the project - good things have - in 2025, so that the gas can flow. A number of doubts have been expressed about this work which has to do with its viability, also because of the current downsizing of international gas prices, but also because of the alleged existence of more cost-effective alternatives. I want to refer to both of these groups of objections and criticisms. The demand for natural gas in Europe, as I tried to explain to the committee, perhaps contrary to oil - although any provision for oil is risky - will continue to increase legally in the next few months, due to an increase in its contribution to electricity production by removing polluting coal and reducing the participation of nuclear energy, as Germany closes its nuclear plants and fewer than planned investments in this sector in the rest of Europe. These are the data pan-European. After all, despite the great and welcome rise in alternative forms of energy, these alone cannot meet demand, especially during peak hours, when air is not blowing and the sun is not shining enough, as large and reliable energy storage systems are missing for the time being. As the least polluted of fossil fuels the European Union has chosen natural gas, as the basic fuel for Europe's energy transition by 2050 in the context of its environmentally very ambitious green agreement. I want to stress this. This prospect fully forms part of the European Union's environmentally friendly, energy planning. I would stress this, not to say environmental excesses and nurtures, as they often hear in this Chamber. The European Union itself is interested in strengthening its energy security and independence, by multiplying its choices to reduce its current dependence on Russia, by a provider, and that is natural. This option is supported by the United States. It is both economic and geopolitical, as energy is primarily strategically important. EastMed is part of this wider design of the European Union and remains the best alternative, I stress it, in relation to transport, through precise liquefaction - which is a procedure that is precise, which does not give the power to pipelines, which need to build multi-text liquefied and regasification stations, which are not present at the moment - and remains the best alternative and against a possible pipeline via Turkey. There are many lobbies in the international media who have argued in favour of the Turkish solution. Of course the Turkish Government is doing so, and will continue to do so, for its own reasons. We do not have to do this in this Chamber, too. A pipeline through Turkey, to have the data, would not be cheaper than EastMed, since Turkey's land network today is saturated and will need to expand if it is to accept the additional quantities from Leviathan's deposits and the rest of the Eastern Mediterranean. So the cost will rise and be comparable to what EastMed has. Furthermore, Turkey's political risk has been growing in recent years because of Tayyip Erdogan's choices. This is not just about us, it is about Turkey, and, of course, neither we nor Israel nor Europe itself want only one provider, an alternative to Russia, do not want Turkey to fully control the alternative to Russia, and so they prefer the EastMed solution. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, continues to pay - and I want us to be honest in all of this - natural gas more expensive than other countries for a number of reasons, such as having less consumption, is at the end of the pipeline, the reasons are well known, despite the significant decrease in the purchase price from Russia made by the Government of Samara before 2015. And I would like to stress the effort that has been made at that time and it has made us very much relieved us. However, we remain more expensive. Today, Greece is supplied with gas in three ways: through the pipeline that comes from Russia and ends in Sidirokastro, through the pipeline that comes from Azerbaijan and ends in the gardens of Evros and, of course, through the regasification station that we have in Revithousa for gas originally from Algeria, but not only, new suppliers have now entered the market, such as Qatar and, of course, the United States with its slate gas. The addition of a fourth pass, that is, EastMed, increases our choices and throws prices for the benefit of national production and the Greek consumer. Equally important is the upgrading of Greece to an energy hub, as well as the easy transport of any deposits that are put into commercial exploitation in Cyprus and Greece in the future. EastMed is the most tangible element of Greece's ever closer relationship with Israel. Staying open to the participation of Egypt and other Arabic sites on the one hand and Italy on the other, it is ambitious to forge an energy and also broader cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean with the support of the European Union and the United States for peace and stability in the region. Although EastMed, as our Minister said the other day, does not turn against anyone, his construction sends a clear message against any disputes of legality and I would like to highlight this in this Chamber today, especially today. While Turkey is illegal and provoking with the world's blue-collar chasms, Greece is forging alliances and costs the wider European and Western interests to its own, for the benefit of its own. It is a pity, let me say, that Parliament's decision seems to be unconscious. I will be lenient to the critics of the agreement, and I hope I will not be inclined to go back to denial. Once again, I will say that EastMed's domestic negligents have formulated their dangerous geostrategic and environmental defects, which are not based on any realistic reading of reality, but only on ideals, sometimes serving the interests of foreigners directly and at times as a result. I was even surprised that there was a party, which has been reserved and has not yet come to an end if EastMed is in Greece's interest. I hope that the three days that have elapsed since Monday have come to an end, because it easily lifts the national flag and now that a project of the highest national importance, which Turkey wants to fight, is reluctant to give its vote. I don't know why. Ladies and gentlemen, last Monday the Committee of the Greek Parliament made a decision for the benefit of the Greek and European interests. The implementation of this decision, which we are taking today, will not be a simple matter. Each work of this size is encountered with difficulties. But the first step is taking today. There are all the data in favour, and I am sure they will follow all the following, so that 2025 will flow gas through Greece towards the rest of Europe. This project, by suming up, in practice disproves the Turkish expansionist doctrine of the blue country, increases Greece's geopolitical added value in Europe, the European Union and the Eastern Mediterranean, contributes to the emergence of Greece in a European transit hub, it is expected to create direct, indirect and provocative economic effects during the development, construction and operation phase of the total of 6 billion, four times more than the TAP, in order to have a comparison with a pipeline that has already been completed. It essentially opens up a new energy corridor, which will cover in future the potential natural gas deposits of the wider Greek area, facilitates the economic development of Greece and Cyprus, as well as increasing competition in the final gas market for the benefit of the Greek consumer, Greek production, the Greek industry, which has been affected by high energy prices. It ensures the supply of natural gas to areas in Greece which do not have access to the national network, such as Crete, the Peloponnese, Western Greece, where the pipeline passes. It therefore facilitates the replacement of natural gas oil with a strong impact on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the abovementioned areas. So he has a positive environmental footprint. Finally, it strengthens security of supply for Cyprus, Greece and Europe in general, differentiating both sources of supply, such as Russia, and the roads that are currently going through Ukraine and Turkey, mainly, to import natural gas into the European Union. For all these reasons, EastMed fully serves the highest national interests. I am pleased that, with a very large majority, our House will vote in favour of the bill of ratification of EastMed's transnational agreement. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the Minister responsible, friend Kostis Hadjidakis, and a competitor in the same sector, in the North of Athens, for the initiative to speed up the signing, in response to the challenges that had been ahead of Christmas from Ankara and to be here today, in a pleasant position, to ratify together, unitedly, to send the message and move forward in front of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Hara Kafantaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in Parliament the ratification of a convention on Greece, Cyprus, Israel and Italy - which is why I shall refer here again to the intention of building a gas pipeline from the deposits of the Eastern Mediterranean to Europe. As one of the consortium participants points out, the EastMed pipeline connects Europe with new energy sources. In recent years, the European Union has been trying to secure its energy security and, on the other hand, to further diversify the supply of energy minerals inclusive. In this context, EastMed is part of this pipeline. It may, of course, be limited in relation to total consumption in the European Union, since it only carries 10 BCM from the four hundred fifty of consumption in the European Union, but it has a given signal, signifies the differentiation of sources of supply. This work is very important and technical. The design of this pipeline is a thousand nine hundred kilometers, of which three hundred are underwater and about six hundred are on the land. It also crosses the deepest point of the Aegean Sea, around three and a half thousand meters, and this pipeline will be anchored in the meekness of the mainland in a depth of about three kilometers. This is a technical project - a challenge and it is one of the largest oil or gas pipelines that will be at such depths worldwide. The ratification of this international convention took place on 2 January 2020 in Zappeion, we all know it. Representatives of the participating countries also participated. Italy did not participate, it sent a letter describing the work of Community interest. This is an issue that we need to see and talk about. But ratification of this international convention is very important and positive, we will judge the invitation on the part of the Ministry and Mr Hatzidakis and the previous Energy Ministers, because this project has been having a time-consuming effort since 2013. But there are many technical problems which need to be approached with great care. The large anchorages of the pipeline at the point of the route, the geology of the area in which the pipeline, oceanographic status, the existence of sea streams, streams of thoracicity, conductivity, etc. And of course, the increased saltiness of the Eastern Mediterranean - which is 3.8% greater than the saltiness of the Atlantic - which create additional technical problems which need to be addressed in particular. The second is its financing, the guarantee of the financial model to be followed for the natural gas projects characterised as projects of Community interest, and of course the issue of gas and its financing by the European Investment Bank in the future, because since 2021 it has been known that it will stop financing natural gas infrastructure projects. On SYRIZA many efforts were made to cooperate - I come to the geopolitical part of the Eastern Mediterranean - and all these meetings and cooperation were made under international law. We must not forget that in January 2019 the gas forum was held in Egypt. That is where I must say that, apart from Israel, Palestine has also participated. As I have said, this draft law and this project are the result of Greece's timeless and diplomatic policies. Started in 2013, it was characterised as a project of Community interest, some Community funding was provided, a PCI project as it is called. The SYRIZA Government has essentially supported this work with both Energy Ministers, Skourlet and Stathakis. The first steps were made effectively in 2016 with the cooperation agreement on the finalisation of activities prior to the preparation of the implementation study between POSIDAS, the Joint Company PPC - Edison and the Noble Energy International LTD. But what happens now? We note that on 2-12-2016 in Italy there was a meeting that was attended by Mr Kanete, European Energy Commissioner. The Italian Minister took part in a meeting in Tel Aviv on 3-4-2017. Here we see Italy is in the title, but it did not appear in the final signature, and that is an issue that our country must diplomatically and with an active foreign policy to achieve. But there is also in the title without a specific signature. We live in an area, ladies and gentlemen, with intense geopolitical turbulence, friendships are tested, old animosities are rekindled, new rivalry, protectionism in the markets, which are a phenomenon in recent years, is a new given, the crisis of the coronary is also a new given, but the Eastern Mediterranean has always been a field of international and local competition and is always at the heart of developments. We as SYRIZA, when we took over in 2015, apart from the licensed funds, the very important fact was how our country was dealing with internationally. It was Europe's presence, the Memorandum of Understanding had really transformed it, as I said, in Europe's presence, we have undertaken a country with a downgraded diplomatic, political and geopolitical commitment. Within this period of time we tried and managed to raise the country. The doctrine of our foreign policy has been based on the principle of equal relations with a multi-faceted aim. Soon there have been results of this policy, we have continued working together with Israel, which was naturally in existence, but there have been three-way cooperation between Greece - Cyprus, Greece - Cyprus - Egypt, which have carried out positively, but on the other hand the bases have been laid and similar partnerships have been established with Jordan and Lebanon. Our government's initiatives have solved a number of foreign policy issues, taboo issues, which are today their importance, such as the Prespecies Agreement, and on the other hand we are talking about the Balkan six-party meeting and cooperation at the level of the Balkans in the logic of understanding and co-development in this region of Europe. For the first time the countries of the Mediterranean south of the European Union met for talks, these international meetings dealt with major issues of the time, such as austerity, as refugees, energy security, the elimination of energy isolation. At a time when we all agree that climate change is present, the European Union has adopted specific policies, setting specific climate targets. The European Union has already promoted Green Deal, as we know, climate neutrality in 2050. This is very important, because climate change is one of the greatest problems we are facing today. The countries of the European Union were invited to design the new ESRB, National Plan for Energy and Climate, which is about adaptation and policies against climate change. In this direction, SYRIZA had prepared an ESRB, which was considered to be very positive, and was indeed a third, I would say. However, the Government of the New Democracy, when it took over, submitted its own statement, through which, however, the privatisation of electricity production is promoted by 2050. Instead of a transition fuel, natural gas has a very large proportion of it, about 80% of the energy mixture. And I note again that the European Union will not finance natural gas infrastructure. The geopolitical upgrading of our country, which was ensured by the rule of SYRIZA, is now visible and is seen in this draft law. Natural gas will play a leading role in energy matters for several decades as a transition fuel. Therefore, this pipeline, in addition to contributing to this objective, will also be an ideal channel for the channel of possible-possible supply, stressing this very strong-minded hydrocarbon deposits in the Greek areas south of Crete, in the Ionian Sea, etc. The EastMed pipeline unites the discoveries of the Southeast Mediterranean region with consumption in Europe. In this way, it strengthens the rights of the Republic of Cyprus against a Turkish threat by means of a special reference to the Agreement for the recognition of the Cypriot EEZ with border states, Israel, Egypt. I come to Article 8, which concerns the protection of the environment, for which we are particularly sensitive. There are emergency measures in the event of an accident. Mr Minister, I would like to say this, however. The explanatory memorandum to the bill states: ‘The fact that the parties are also parties to the Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea against Pollution of 16 February 1976’, the Barcelona Protocol for some. However, in accordance with the European Commission’s annual report, entitled ‘Environmental Policy Review of the European Union 2019’, a country report on Greece delivered to us in the Standing Committee on the Environment of the Parliament in October 2019, our country, Minister, has not ratified certain international conventions: Protocol No 8 on offshore activities, Protocol No 9 on Integrated Coastal Management of Areas, while also not ratified the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Espoo Convention. I believe that this must be done immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that at the initiative of the SYRIZA Government it has been guaranteed for Greece that it is an energy hub in south-eastern Europe and eastern Mediterranean, at the same time as a transit – commercial, the " silk road", etc., in conjunction with other projects that have been done and completed: TAP, IGB Alexandroupolis, the upgrading of Rethythoussa. There was an initiative by SYRIZA to extend gasification as a transition fuel until 2030, with a strong PPA of Infrastructure, with a law of SYRIZA, with public control and a majority of the public. It thus achieves the financing of international projects. But here, I come to say that your regional authorities, in central Macedonia and the Peloponnese, recently complain strongly that eight cities were excluded from the natural gas network. The majority colleague said in his suggestion that the pipeline ensures the supply of natural gas to cities. It's a question mark. In conclusion, I would say that our foreign policy - and this, I think, we must all agree, but we must also implement it - must be based on and based on equal and multilateral external relations, on the exploitation of geopolitical reconversions and opportunities, in response to the consequences of climate change and climate neutrality. We're positive about the bill. We have said so in committee too. However, the work, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, must be supported more actively by the United States. It matters. In December 2018, at the 5th Greek-Cyprus Summit - Israel in Berceva, US Ambassador Friedman, expressly speaking on behalf of President Trump, underlined US support in the project and called on all countries in the region to contribute to his success. Also in March 2019 at the first meeting of the cooperation framework three plus one, with the United States, the American Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr. Pombeo stressed the strategic importance of the project and American support. However, we can say that this support is being raised in question. He did not continue with Mr Mitsotakis' visits to the United States when he met Mr Trump. The differences in foreign policy now appear, but it must be more active and multi-parametric, not unilateral and passive, our foreign policy. In addition, we must have Italy's participation clearly. Italy cannot be in the title when it has not signed at the moment. I guess I'll say they're making a question about it. You have given us an answer to the committee, that it is open, that it will be done etc. We need an active foreign policy by the government and diplomatic movements, and that is why. In conclusion, I will bring back what I said to the committee, because it has to be heard. Your environmental bill - a law of the state now, Minister, did not stop by the vote. The problems are too much and they seem. And we are in dialogue with many bodies involved in this environmental law or, as you say,'modernisation of environmental legislation'. I repeat the issue of the EDPS and the one that has been voted on in this anti-environmental law. Manual, malfunctional setting, where you connect two incompatible items, Upstream activities, exploration and extraction, with Midstream, transport, treatment, etc., with research. So there is a serious problem of conflict of interest. We cannot Greek Petroleum, which have research rights, participate through the Infrastructure PPA and the company that monitors and controls research rights. You cannot thus unify two activities manually on a crucial subject. And I say it, because DEPA is a factor that also plays a part in this ratification of an agreement. It is clear that we are voting positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr Christos Gokas, a special speaker from the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important agreement on the construction of the EastMed gas pipeline, with obvious economic and development benefits that strengthen energy security and guarantee stability for the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. These benefits are not only States - parts of this Convention or their neighbouring countries, but also the whole of the European Union. Of course, it is a great energy project in the Eastern Mediterranean. Above all, however, it is a project of the highest geopolitical and geostrategic importance for our country. There has been a strong debate in the committee on the importance of the project and its benefits, its historic route and its attempt to implement it over the last decade. I would like, on the occasion of the debate, to reiterate and emphasise the decisive role of our prominence, which has been envisioned, designed and promoted by this great energy project of our time since 2010-2011. It is a leading patriotic choice and is a PASOK project. With the PASOK government and Prime Minister George Papandreou, the first talks began in contacts with the Israeli government in 2010, on the prospects for the construction of EastMed, with the vision of a strong Greece that is leading and playing a decisive role in favour of peace and stability in the region. It is a project that prevents conflicts and brings growth. The organisation of the effort to implement and process this project proceeded from the government at the time, with Minister Yiannis Maniotis in 2011, aiming at the largest possible energy project of the Mediterranean and the prospect of an energy hub in the wider region. Giannis Maniatis was responsible for Minister and then, in 2013-2014, then, by the government at the time. On the occasion of this debate, we should also recognise the very important role of the DEPA in this project. This project, ladies and gentlemen, was launched in parallel with a number of options and other energy projects, such as the TAP and IGB pipelines, which were included in the strategic investments and then in the list of projects of common interest of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the starting point for the work we are discussing is 2010-2011, neither 2013 nor 2015, together with the other important options in the field of energy. It was a pioneering work for his time, at a difficult time, with everyone towards the beginning, in this geostrategic and geopolitical choice, a work of sovereign right. A lot has been heard in the Chamber these days. We do not reduce any contributions from anyone below. However, SYRIZA in the opposition undermined and fought these works. He was talking about unnecessary public money. He did not vote for either TAP or any major energy project. It's hypocrisy to say that he supported and that it all started in 2015. In 2015, the change of his attitude began and reached the 2017 agreement. And today we have new contradictions. He votes for the agreement, does not vote for the extraction of hydrocarbons. What will the pipeline carry? Just the gas of others? I have mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, in all the above, the restoration of historical truth alone. The fact that we are most in agreement today, with a wider consensus in this truly huge geostrategic, but also economic and developmental, work, is very positive. Because in the face of today's escalating provocations, the actions and threats of Turkey, the agreement that we have before us and EastMed is an important geopolitical weapon that needs to be strengthened with the determination of our side, against every attempt at the expense of our national sovereignty and the exercise of our sovereign rights. This agreement diplomatically strengthens our country towards Turkey, along with the prospect of becoming our own country's hydrocarbon producer. We feel really entitled to our patriotic choices. After ten years, we finally have an agreement and we have to move on. The steps to date were based on the plan and vision of 2010-2011. Today we need to see the new vision. The government must give a new vision of the continuation of this plan. We support all efforts to implement it and any references to issues relating to the difficulties of the project - techniques, economic or otherwise - concern our interest in the progress of the project. That is why we asked the Minister for information and indeed gave some information on developments in connection with the financing of the study, authorisations, competitive procedures for studies and some initial technical information. The pipeline we are discussing will be able to move natural gas from the deposits of Israel and Cyprus to the European market, but also to look elsewhere, such as Egypt or news that is expected to be extracted to Cyprus, Israel and our country. By its nature it is a difficult and complex project. It requires considerable funding. It is estimated - it was heard by the majority member - a sum of 6 billion. There are more estimates. The exact amount will, of course, come from the final studies and the economic exploitation will obviously also depend on the quantity that it will carry and, in any case, on the market that it will be able to market. There are different estimates of the proportion of the European Union's energy needs that can be met. But let us not stand on this. It is a project that in any case reduces Europe's energy dependence on Russia, which is why it is funded, but also Turkey's role as a privileged country for all pipelines. The design was indeed made at a time with other international data. The premeditation had shown that the objective is technically feasible, economically viable and commercially competitive, which is why it joined the list of Projects of common interest in the PCI, and there is funding, as I said before, for the project study. Of course, it is also based on other factors, such as the United States of America. Today we have a change of data due to the global context, as recently the coronary pandemic, but also the fall in oil prices. Perhaps another difficulty is the European Green Agreement and the decisions that natural gas will be a transition fuel for the next decade. However, there are too many products which have as their basis hydrocarbons, as in the chemical industry. The concern which exists, of course, is also reinforced by some movements of companies operating in the region or which have significant profit falls. I referred in detail to the committee. We believe, however, that with the will of the participating countries and the European Union in its choice of supporting this project, the difficulties will be overcome. The project should be carried out on a horizon of two to three years in order to be able to function during the period when natural gas is, as has been pointed out by colleagues, the main option for electricity production in Europe, compared with other fossil fuels. As far as the agreement is concerned, for the individual articles governing various issues, I do not want to add anything particular. The environmental standards, the safety standards of the pipeline system shall be defined, the Joint Committee shall be set up to address the work of the project, and other partners shall also participate in the agreement, if any. The inclusion, ladies and gentlemen, of the pipeline in the list of projects of common interest confirms our choice, but at the same time also the European Union's awareness of the high added value of the pipeline, which is why we are optimistic about its potential. However, I would like to point out certain conditions for its smooth implementation. Firstly, it must act as a means of cooperation, peace, unity and development of the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean and of the European Union to join the support agreement. Secondly, countries signatories to the EastMed support agreement should commit themselves politically and in the long term that this pipeline is their main option for traveling to the European Union of new natural gas deposits to be discovered in the region and regions of each country, with appropriate actions and with the companies operating in the region. The financing of the project from European resources and the commitment of large consumers to buy gas volumes from EastMed and to give priority to all their choice of gas transfer with EastMed, against other ways, such as liquefactioning gas with comparable stations at the same time discussing countries participating in the pipeline agreement, which is contradictory. Also, it will be important to transfer deposits and other countries, for example Egypt, which has, as has been said, rich deposits, while discussing and referring to the new testimonies in Israel and Cyprus. The Leviathan look of Israel is estimated at more than 8 billion cubic gas a year, which, if committed, will enable a larger pipeline and a greater supply to Europe. It is also important to provide for the possibility that the pipeline that will be built will be able to be used in future as a pipeline for green hydrogen that is the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of data and situations, and we are following developments with a view to energy issues. We have asked some questions and some comments in the debate. Many of these have been mentioned by the Minister in his position. Before these points, however, I would like to refer to an issue that was mainly the subject of controversy between the Minister and colleagues of SYRIZA. We hadn't talked about this. If we want to say that the benefits of gas, the fight against energy poverty by households, the strengthening of the competitiveness of businesses, etc. They will be diffused in Greece and the citizens and businesses throughout the country will be fruitful, you must make it clear to us what exactly you will do when it comes to the development of the TEN networks in western Macedonia and the Peloponnese. The responsibilities of both SYRIZA and yours are heavy that, with your delays, these projects did not go ahead. And the RAE now comes and responds, in view of the fact that 2023 ends, which finances these projects. And not only does it answer them, but it gives private individuals the construction of the networks for Veria and Giannitsa. Private interests are being granted a premium and the value of the TENs is being reduced and, by extension, the PPA which you want tomorrow to privatise at 100%, since it will lose very important areas such as Tripoli and other regions of the Peloponnese. We know that we will be vertically opposed to this. We can't accept such games. I now move on to the other issues of our remarks. The Quartet Agreement was signed by three states: Greece, Cyprus and Israel. Italy has not signed up to now. It's said he can sign any time he decides. However, the reasons have not been clarified. Although it sent a positive letter, the reasons are unclear and specific. And that was before the COVID pandemic -19. We hope, of course, that the final conclusion will be a positive one, although Italy's intentions are not known. In the overall work we said Italy was an important parameter, since EastMed would be connected with the IGI Poseidon pipeline in Florovonis Thesprotia to reach Italy and from there to the networks of Europe. We have also referred to the delay in tabling the agreement to be ratified at the rate of one hundred and twenty days, and we have not been informed and not mentioned by the Minister at what stage is the respective ratification procedure in the other countries. Minister, we would like, if you can, to give us your own assessment of the overall timetable for the project, as well as information on its funding, beyond the funding of the existing studies. For the other technical elements of the project we will naturally await the final studies, precise course, depth of installation, etc. In any case, however, we reiterate the prospect and prediction that the EastMed pipeline will give gas to areas that are currently off-nets and are disadvantaged in terms of energy costs for their productive activities or private consumption, in addition to the most positive environmental impacts. The pipeline will pass through Crete. It is an opportunity for Crete to take advantage of the passage through the pipeline, like the Peloponnese, Western Greece, but also Epirus, which is outside the network at the moment. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that the implementation of the EastMed project requires continued vigilance and appropriate action by the government for its progress. As we have already said, it is a project with economic and development benefits, a project with geopolitical character, a symbol of peace and good neighbourliness of the peoples of the Eastern Mediterranean against Turkish aggression. The exercise of our country's sovereign rights is unnecessarily unnecessarily. Realities for geopolitical reasons, but also technical, for the smooth development of the project, to further strengthen our country's position in the wider region, must go ahead with the delimitation of the Greek EEZ, so that we do not find ourselves in advance. And we know Turkey's latest events and actions in relation to Libya. It is a matter of national importance - we support it - and we expect the Government to answer its intentions on this issue, but also to inform the course of negotiations with other countries on these issues, such as Egypt, and Cyprus, Albania and Italy. We are certainly positive in voting on the ratification of the agreement on the construction of the EastMed gas pipeline. We are voting in favour of both the principle and the articles, and we welcome the fact that the work that our prolongation has envisioned and launched is a national priority, which is then supported and served by the governments of our country. However, it requires a political will to continue, with constant understanding and unity for the success of this national objective. The responsibility lies with all of us and above all with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak. We haven't kept a minute silence for Dimitris Kremastino.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u8	Mr Loverdos rightly reminded me that we have not kept a minute's silence about the death of our colleague Dimitris Kremastinos. I will give the floor for two minutes only to Mr Loverdo - it is self-evident that he should say a few words and keep a minute's silence on Dimitris Cremastino that we all knew and loved. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. I had once again made a reference to the House, when Dimitris Kremastino struggled with the coronary in "Evangelism", in intensive. He won at first stage this virus, defeated pneumonia, but the complications were too many and Dimitris ended. There has been an impression - and indeed many times he wanted to say that - that Cremastino was a Member of Parliament for decades and of the oldest of PASOK and parliament under the current parliamentary circumstances. It's wrong. Dimitris Cremastinos became Minister of Health in 1996 - he was honoured by Andreas Papandreou with this proposal - he refused to become a Member of the State - he refused! - and we were elected together in 2000. When that unacceptable was introduced, it did not come down again - I do not remember whether it had already resigned - and was elected - and had a continuous presence for ten years - in 2009 again, when the incompatible had been abolished. I would like to honour the memory of a personal friend, a very important factor in Greek politics. I would like to honour the memory of a professor who advised many of us and too many citizens of health issues. In fact, Mr President, I would like to convey an opinion from the late Dimitris Tsatsos who was a patient and said - Dimitris Tsatsos was a global man and had heart problems himself - that in Europe man, a doctor who regulates heart issues better than Cremastino, does not exist. For such personal reasons I am speaking and I would like to ask you, beyond the one minute's silence, whether the Bureau - the President, who is here - has also been Vice-President of the House for several years - has also been a special event. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u10	On the second side, the President heard it. He's always open to this kind of thing. I think that your party and Parliament will be informed of this request. I would ask my colleagues, if I say we endorse everything you have said, to keep a minute's silence in the memory of Dimitris Cremastinos. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] His memory is eternity! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, is called in Stepma. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Each government - and today - is based on its policy on the need to serve the bourgeoisie, the interests of the monopolies. So, in any way, government policies support their profitability through the armouring of competitiveness and the worsening of the position of the working class and the rest of the people's population, which in conditions of capitalist crisis, such as today, lead to further deterioration of the position of the working class and the rest of the people's population, speed up this process, permanentize the extraordinary measures taken to tackle the crisis - the extraordinary anti-government measures - in the name of speeding up growth, but also to shield competitiveness and simulate them, because this has shown the historic reality itself. Memorandums may have been over, but superior memorial laws also remain in force during the previous period, but also now, during the period of crisis. Secondly, it is to improve the position of monopolies in international competition with the extroversion of the economy - and its impact now on tourism, transport, how much more acidity and depth will the manifestation of the capitalist crisis - and on the other hand, the economic penetration of the Greek business groups in the wider region, the gain, that is, some small parts from the pillaging that is taking place and from the distribution of markets and the wealthy sources between the major imperialist centres. This is also the content of the so-called geostrategic upgrade, which, with particular faith and commitment, the current government is serving and the previous government of SYRIZA has served. It is, in other words, the case of geostrategic upgrading the other side of the coin of the anti-grass, anti-grassroots, deep class policy on the inside. From this, of course, the food has nothing to gain from our working class and people. On the contrary, risks are growing for both our people and other peoples. It is this choice of the bourgeoisie that is today associated with the Americans and naval designs in our region, an area that is the magnet, that is the crossroads of extreme competition, but also conflicts between major powers. The United States on the one hand is against Russia both in terms of Russia's military presence and Russia's influence on the wider region and in particular on energy issues about who will control the sources and also on transport pipelines. The United States is across China as far as the supply chain is concerned, as it is implemented by the new travel route. However, there are, of course, individual contradictions from these large ones, which conflict in the region, such as the contradictions between the urban ranks of Turkey and Greece which are contradictory, because on the one hand they also cooperate at economic level parts of Turkey's urban ranks with the Greek urban class and parts of it, but on the other hand they compete for who will gain a stronger share in the wider region. This development of things also results in the agreement and attitude of today and of the previous government, the strengthening of the presence of the American-Nathian in our region for the sharing of markets and control of sources. After all, it is very clear that the Americans are in a mood. The recently passed law, EastMed Act, by the American Parliament and Senate, where on substance in the Eastern Mediterranean, as a major factor in the American presence, the rehabilitation of the regions and the Eastern Mediterranean as a whole by the Russian Federation's energy needs. Of course, it makes it clear that the United States Government, the United States, will support all efforts to deal with the intervention and influence of the Russian Federation's government in the Eastern Mediterranean. So this is the main rival of the United States, Russia and China, and this law comes to confirm it and wants the states that are allies and satellites to play a role in this process. Of course, it also forms the prerequisites, because this law has thirteen parts. One of these sections, Section 6, says that the US government will fund - it says - the education of future leaders in the states in the wider Eastern Mediterranean region. Why would he fund them to train them? To be much more willing servants of American interests in the region. So, in practice, all of this is confirmed, if we start from the Arab Spring and the imperialist interventions in the region, which were also marked in Libya and Syria - and which are still continuing - the strongening of the Americans, in the north-western Balkans, in the Prespecies Agreement, where the SYRIZA Government negotiated it and voted for it in the Greek Parliament, an agreement which exactly had the stamp of the Americans and NATO in order to integrate the Western Balkans into NATO, but also in the European Union and, of course, the military agreement negotiated by the Government of SYRIZA, the military agreement with the US, its revision, where it turns Greece into an advanced US prison. In fact, for the first time in recent years in the SYRIZA government, new US and naval military bases were created in the region, in Larissa, in Stefanovich, the helicopter bases for the technical control of helicopters in Alexandroupolis, Araxos also modernised here in Souda the leader of the US bases in the region further expanded its role and importance, strengthening it even more. So Greece is turning into an advanced imprisonment of US and NATO planning into the region, turning into a premier of these pursuits. Today, these days, they are sending the Greek military ship out of Libya to play the wheelmen, the ranger between the plans of the major forces for Libya and the fragmentation of Libya. At the same time, it turns it into retaliation magnet on the other hand. And all this, why are the Greek governments doing it? Just to participate in the sharing of the ruins of the imperialist interventions. That is why there is a great concentration of military forces in the region. Thus, the US and NATO not only are not a stabilization factor in the region, but instead are the main, most destabilising factor in the region, the border-change factor in the region. The Balkans are very recent and this process continues. When Greece plays the role of good child in the United States, the United States, the European Union, France are negotiating at the same time with Turkey. They are negotiating secretly, because Turkey is strategically important to them, the American blog itself. The war on pipelines is taking place in the region and has an impact. So, then, the American pipeline plans in the region are clear what they predict, conflict with Russian pipeline interests to serve and promote the logic of the European Union's energy decommissioning from Russian gas. But this picture is not clear, it is contradictory, because, at the same time as the European Union itself has its own policy of rehab, at the same time Germany, together with Russia, creates the NordStream pipeline, to bypass Ukraine and go directly to the Russian gas in Germany - a very large pipeline - and at the same time supply the Central European countries with gas from Russia from the new pipeline, Turkish Stream, with Bulgaria. Even Bulgaria is trying to cover up that it is with the American-American bloc, allowing it to flow from the territories of natural gas and Russia to Central Europe, while Greece is implementing only the interests and plans of the Americans in the region. That is why we have the implementation of the TAP, we have the interconnector between Greece and Bulgaria, we have Alexandroupolis to be transformed - and today Piat is going to inspect the work, today the owner goes to inspect the presents - not only on a technical basis helicopters, but also at a port at the same time for the transhipment of liquefied natural gas, which will fuel the American-Natural pipeline, the Danube pipeline. And of course, the last card of that logic is EastMed. The implementation of this pipeline, however, is an ambitious project with serious difficulties but also questions to which you are not responding. Make tactics and intelligence. What are these difficulties and questions? First, geopolitical difficulties. On the one hand, we have Turkey's specific refusal - it is clear - but it is not just Turkey in the game. Palestine has submitted a request to the Greek Government expressing its opposition and its concern that the creation of the EastMed pipeline will cause additional problems. It is Lebanon which reacts and, of course, it is Italy's ambiguous attitude, which on the one hand you say it is a quadripartite agreement, but Italy has not signed it yet, because it is negotiating it with both the Russians and the Chinese and does not want to be an exclusive factor for only the Americans in the region. The most basic geopolitical problem is that the limits of the EEZ have not been established. And are you telling me about national interests while you have not set the limits of the EEZ, leaving Turkey's claims in the region open? So much is your pain! Secondly, economic difficulties, the great depth from which the pipeline will pass, up to three kilometres deep, but also the great cost of building the pipeline, from 7 billion to 11 billion euros are going to go. Thirdly, environmental problems and maritime safety issues, environmental safety. A fourth element which raises questions is where it will be supplied - anyway - this pipeline. You say three governments agree. But governments do not produce natural gas, they have assigned production to monopolistic groups and to multinationals. Governments may sign what they want if they do not want the multinationals to implement it. We've got data, and that's it. First of all, I shall table the Palestinian Government's memorandum. Data first: on February 14, the statements made by the representative of the consortium that controls the Leviathan, the largest gas deposit in Israel and he says "we are looking for the solution, either to build a floating gas liquefiation tank or to see another way of transport, the Turkish pipeline". I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. We have the Egyptian deposits, which are exported through liquefiation, from two gas liquefiation stations in Egypt. On the other hand, the moves in Cyprus itself, which, at the same time as the government signs, do not, on the other hand, remove plans for the installation of a natural gas liquefiation plant in Vassilica. We have the statements by ENI and TOTAL, the consortium that controls a plot in Cyprus. We have the statements 'EXXON - MOBIL' that speak either of a liquefied natural gas station or of going to Egypt. This all raises questions. Here, let me now answer the argument of the other powers. They say the other forces and the government that this pipeline brings stability and peace to the region. What peace? The imperialist peace with the gun on the head? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the contrary, this pipeline complicates the already tense situation, gives rise to Turkish aggression, involved in new controversy. A variant of this argument is that it offers security - it says - in Greece. How security? Without an AOZ proclamation? This process is even closer to the issue of the coexistence of the regions' deposits in Greece and Turkey, under the American 'bottom' and, of course, nothing but strengthens Greece's strategic position, because how much can you defend the interests of your country when you take out the fossil fuel, lignite, electricity generation and replace it with imported fuel? The natural gas, the fossil fuel and this. So much for supporting the energy security and upgrading of your country! A fourth argument is that because - it says - it is against Turkey, all political forces must agree. Why? The rapporteur for the New Democracy said so very clearly. Anyone who refuses - says - directly or indirectly serves foreign interests. Did you look at yourself in the mirror when you said that? These words are very heavy, but as a descendant - perhaps - of all those who stood on the wall and put on the blood of those who resisted in the name of being 'bolsheviks', dare and bring such a debate here in the House. You who are working with Turkey within NATO, you who are financially working with the European Union with Turkey, dare and say these things and unleash these accusations. Surely SYRIZA revealed his role, is the king's king. Today the rapporteur gave the credentials to the US, but also to Piat, "we are the best servant of American interests and you should prefer us". That is what SYRIZA's rapporteur has done today. The position of the JRC, clean and sloppy: First, the creation of this pipeline, which is a part of the overall puzzle, poses risks to the sovereign rights of the country, to the territorial integrity of the country, is at the expense of the people of our own and also of the peoples of the region. It gives benefits to business groups only, it is at the expense of the needs of our people, because it lives even with the creation of the TAP in conditions of energy poverty. Of course the JRC is at the opposite foot, contrary to the objectives, plans and interests of the bourgeoisie and monopolies of our country. It fights for more overall breaches and reversals, for the release of Greece from NATO and the European Union, for as much as possible of equal cooperation as possible with other states and to transform the sources of wealth, the means of production, social property. So energy will be able to develop, using all the wealthy sources - fossil and renewable - which our country has, to have energy security, but also to export to the public very cheaply, but also to support popular production that meets the needs of our people and, of course, also to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. This is the only pragmatic and necessary path for the benefit of our people. In this respect, therefore, those who today through the pandemic show that they are moving the economy - which is the working class and the workers and have been confirmed - not only is it enough to be in the face of productive activity, but they must also take power in their hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Loverdos, the President of the Parliament informed me that he has already expressed the condolences to the wife of Dimitris Kremastinos, Mrs. Jenny Kremastinos, and that the House will symbolically send a sum to the Foundation "Dodenal Bee" which gives scholarships to the deceased Roditas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u16	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, I believe that it would be a shame on the part of the government that the Minister representing her will remain silent. Of course we have honoured Dimitris Cremastinos' memory with the one minute silence that we kept. But I would also like to say, as Minister, but also as a colleague until before Dimitris Kremastinos, that we are all grievingly saying good-bye. He was a distinguished scientist - there is no doubt about it - but also a noble man, a fragrant, who I think honoured science and Greece with his passing from life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u18	The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. The condolences and on our behalf, on behalf of the Greek Solution, to the family of Mr. Kremastinos. At the first and only meeting of the Committee on Trade on the subject of the EastMed agreement, we said that the debate is a pretext, since the agreement has already been signed and nothing has changed, nor anything of its content. Since this is not just an energy project or an economic advantage, we have examined it as a geopolitical project with wider implications for our country and for the region, although the Minister has assured us that the investment will be carried out with European funds already approved. So we referred to the issue of Europe's energy adequacy, which is now dependent on Russia, as well as to the Green Deal which is being promoted by the European Union, while the government has brought it to its "Saint Grail" in the sense that it has become dependent on both the energy and the economic future of Greece. However, with this Green Deal Europe will remain dependent on Russia, but through the German-Turkish transport axis, namely TurkStream on the one hand and NordStream on the other hand, which continues to be built despite US sanctions, bypassing Ukraine, noting that Turkey is considered a strategic partner of Germany and the European Union, with Germany having installed a very large part of its production, especially in respect of renewable energy sources, namely wind turbines and photovoltaics, whether produced by Germans or by Germans in the production, installation and marketing regimes, while also controlling their spread through European Union regulations, as well as the funding they provide. In this case, Greece, with its strategic self-sufficiency - at least in terms of its electricity supply of more than 80%, which was mostly covered by lignite, will end up being fully dependent on energy. Unfortunately, hydroelectric plants were neglected, while PPC, which was the first to start renewable energy, was then obviously blocked by the governments at the time. In addition, we stressed that unfortunately the Americans with the sanctions imposed on Russia eventually established German-Turkish control, and pushed liquefied gas as an alternative through the Alexandroupolis station in Greece and its connection to Bulgaria. This is positive for Greece, of course, as long as we do not lose control of the PPA, which has been trimmed to sell its two parts, while the third, the international PPA, will remain the property of the public, at least as the Minister told us. As we now mentioned during the debate on energy, east of Crete, between Greece and Cyprus, south of Kastelorizos is the great look of Herodotus, and also great energy deposits are found in the Eastern Mediterranean in the region between Cyprus, Israel and Egypt. These deposits can significantly increase Europe's energy adequacy by diversifying its suppliers. In this regard, Turkey seeks in various ways, such as maps, control and exploitation of part of these deposits, while being able to cut EastMed out with Libya's illegal agreement, thereby maintaining the position of the main supplier of southern and central Europe, in cooperation with Germany. At the same time, Greece does not declare territorial waters and IEZ, possibly blocked by Germany, on the basis of, among other things, its failure to call for the Libyan debate, and unfortunately the failed policy of reciprocity with regard to Turkey continues, with a risk of war. There is, however, no such thing as the 'finding' of our country as the present situation does not exist. It's humiliating for Greece, absolutely humiliating. We then referred to the non-signature of the agreement by Italy, on the issue of Egypt, on the negative reports by the German press, on the pipeline, on the comparatively huge cost of the pipeline, as well as on the 14 articles that we considered negative or incomplete, while we closed with our reservations, which are summarised below. Our greatest concern is the non-delimitation of an EEZ between Greece and Cyprus, as well as Greece and Libya, which makes such an investment extremely precarious. Furthermore, the fact that it is not accompanied by a strong defensive agreement from all the states Parties, while undermining our national security, leaving open the possibility of participating in the Quartet Agreement and other states, such as Turkey. Finally, there is nowhere to be seen what Greece will gain from natural gas transported from the pipeline. More generally now, one needs to be reluctant about the triumphant announcements of the government of a country that as a party, as a New Democracy, I mean, has overdebted it, bankrupt and mortgaged in the past, surrendering its national independence. The Civic Opposition, of course, completed the tragedy with the delinquency of the banks, which is attempted by the "HRAKLIS" project, once again to our detriment, although the "HRAKLIS" died from the coronary, as well as by transferring everything to the superstate. In this context, the signature of the construction of the EastMed pipeline under the urgency procedure is truly curious, creating the impression that this is rather a defence cooperation between Greece, Cyprus and Israel, rather than an economic project with the cost of building the pipeline. After all, according to an article from the end of 2019 - which we will submit to the Minutes later - the expectation of those who support EastMed after his signature by the United States, in which we have given land and water to the recently adopted bill is the transformation of tripartite cooperation into a real "3 + 1" with the United States in the field of security. With regard to Mr Hatzidakis' celebratory statements on a coalition of legality and the defence of international law - which we will also present in the Minutes - let us be even more cautious, since his real work is the fragmentation and sale of public enterprises. Furthermore, the EastMed pipeline will be a thousand nine hundred kilometers, of which one thousand three hundred submarines and partly in large depths that will present significant technical difficulties, while the construction cost is estimated at $7 billion, with a capacity to carry 10 billion cubic metres of natural gas per year. For comparison, NordStream 2 has a length of two thousand miles and a cost of $9.5 billion, but will carry about 50 billion cubic metres of natural gas a year, that is, over five times, while TAP is eight hundred and fifty kilometers, at a cost of $1.5 billion and possibilities for transporting 20 billion cubic meters a year, that is double. Therefore EastMed is much more expensive, so the gas he will carry should also be more expensive. As regards its supply to energy decommissioning efforts by Russia, it is completely negligible, on the basis that our continent consumed four hundred and fifty billion cubic metres in 2018, of which it introduced four hundred billion cubic metres. In particular, it introduced 38.8% from Russia, 27% from Norway, 12.4% with LNG, 9.9% from the Netherlands and various others, as well as we will submit to the Minutes. Therefore, EastMed's 10 billion cubic meters will only cover 2% of Europe's energy needs, so it certainly does not constitute a serious alternative. Even if much larger stocks are found in the area, they will not only be able to be transported from this pipeline because of its limited physical transport capacity. So we assume that the signing of the agreement between Greece, Cyprus and Israel under the auspices of the United States is primarily aimed at their defence cooperation with Turkey and, of course, Russia. Where such action will lead no one knows, except that it will certainly have consequences for the entire region and especially for Greece, which we must not forget is still bankrupt and helpless. However, according to an article by the 'BLOOMBERG' which we will also present in the Minutes, NordStream 2 will be Russia's last task in supplying gas to Europe, along with Turk Stream, through which its sovereignty will be guaranteed in Eastern Europe. Its next plans concern China's fastest-growing gas market with the Power of Siberia pipeline, costing 400 billion dollars, as we will deposit in the Minutes, as well as the increasing worldwide share of liquefied natural gas through the NOVATEC of the country's largest private gas producer. For the latter, of course, for the LNG, price drops are very negative, especially in terms of shale. With regard to Italy's participation, which remains a party to the current agreement, because, as the Minister said, we have very serious doubts, among other things, because Turkey is its third largest trading partner worldwide, with the bilateral trade of the two countries exceeding EUR 20 billion a year, as well as with some a thousand Italian companies investing in Turkey, so obviously they do not want to jeopardise their relations. In relation to Israel, according to an important financial press release - which we will be tabling in the Minutes - it does not want its conflict with Turkey, on the issue of the EEZ in the Mediterranean, and it considers that, in order to build the project, almost insurmountable technical, economic, environmental and political obstacles should be overcome. On the other hand, according to an expert on energy law at the Jewish University of Jerusalem, even without the declaration of Turkey's EEZ with Libya, there is really no possibility to build the pipeline without Turkey's consent because of the proximity of its shores. As he pointed out, "The EastMed is a strategically important project for Europe, it is also important for Israel. We have excellent cooperation with Greece, Cyprus and Egypt, but we will be glad to see Turkey join." That's exactly what he said. Finally, at the same time, Israel's interest in avoiding any conflict between Turkey and Greece or even with Cyprus is clear, since this would jeopardise the maritime trade routes of the state, which is almost entirely dependent on the Mediterranean, in terms of its imports and exports. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] According now to another Israeli information instrument - which we will also present in the Minutes - which refers more generally to the country's strategic pursuits, they are said to be freelance: Israel, Greece and Cyprus must change their attitude to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus - and, instead of ignoring it, they must call on it to take part in the energy reserves, since this would support the Turkish Cypriot economy, so that Northern Cyprus is removed from Turkey. In conclusion, it is clear that on the one hand the pipeline will be late to be built if we assume that it will eventually happen - many states, many languages, many different interests, indeed the Babel Tower - on the other hand Israel will not support Greece in any conflict with Turkey. So it is reasonable to wonder why the agreement was so quickly signed and why the government triumphantly triumphs. We hope that we will not be treated again as useful idiots, in the sense of serving foreign interests to the detriment of our own, such as using Israel as a negotiating paper with Turkey, possibly passing a pipeline from it. In any case, given Israel's position, there is neither a defensive agreement with him. So Greece is alone, as far as any of its hot or military conflicts with Turkey are concerned, with the chances now being greater. It would therefore be right to weigh up already its powers, although this should have taken precedence over the agreement, beginning with the military expenditure, which has unfortunately collapsed in the years of the memoranda - as we will be tabling in the Minutes - compared to Turkey, since Greece did not exclude them from the cuts, such as Turkey in 2001 that went bankrupt. Even worse, the reduction of Greek spending only on military equipment is appalling, at EUR 258 million only, on the basis of the natural receipts of equipment in the 2020 budget. As far as our military industries are concerned, a sector that stands up to Turkey, the situation is chaotic, since almost all of them have been put into liquidation, although some decisions have changed this year. Since Turkey has been constantly increasing its military spending over the last 15 years, it has created an armament gap between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Villardo, you have to shut down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u21	I will end in a minute, Mr President. Does all this really mean how we need to continue our policy of concentrating with Turkey? Of course not. But they mean that we should be prepared for a hot incident or for a conflict with Turkey, that Greece should be declared as an emergency for its violent settlement with the illegal immigrants that costs us and weakens our defence and financially more and more. It also means that we should immediately increase our military expenditure and the government should have discussed the pipeline with all political parties before signing it, ensuring that we do not fall into another trap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u22	We're moving on with the last special speaker, Mr. Kriton Arsenis from Merra25. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has then asked for the floor. The Minister said to me that he wanted the first five Members to speak, and then he will take the floor. I say this for the parliamentary representatives to make their planning. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members and MPs, Minister, at the committee meeting you made a huge effort. You have reached the point of calling the 'prosecutors' environmental organisations. It is something that has never happened in parliamentary terms, that the Minister, who says he is meeting with these organisations every two months and saying that they are traitors and that if you were following what you were asked for, you would be a traitor. That's exactly what you said. And not only did you say so, but you also advertised it on your social media as something we should say to you 'bravo'. Mr Hatzidakis, how are you going to meet - if you ever intend to meet these organisations in a short time? You are the first Minister for the Environment of this country to come into such a vertical break with anyone who protects the environment, even the environmental organisations that you so well said you were interacting with them. My question is this: Until recently you were telling us - when you were on arguments - that Mr Mitsotakis is Europe's greenest Prime Minister. Finish that story. Now you have reached the point where you say "prophets" who are reacting to what you say. What's the next stage? What are you gonna do next? Will you arrest the respondents, as you do with people who do all nights with the plaques'remove your environmentally-friendly bill' outside the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u24	They've been arrested?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u25	Yes, obviously on the command of political leadership, the police go and arrest them and ask them to leave. Mr Hatzidakis, before you tell us - if it is possible to believe that you have said so! - that we have misinterpreted you, I urge you to apologise, to withdraw this statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u26	You must apologise to me for what you say so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u27	Have these statements been misinterpreted too? Didn't you say that if you heard the environmental organizations, there would be a crowd outside and they would call you a traitor? Isn't that what you said in word? What bothered you, though? What did he do to you? And even your representative, your rapporteur, in relation to those who are responding to this Chamber, said that we are serving interests. You have reached the point of permeation now of your political opponents. And well, the JRC has a long history of these behaviors, for us it's a little bit of an initial experience. What bothered you, though? It has disturbed you that we have come here and denounced - following the statements by your rapporteur, who repeated them today, that the price of oil has collapsed and will not be restored - the absurdity of your policy as a state that has tourism as a basic industry to allow mining to "NATURA", following SYRIZA's policy, when oil, as you say, is falling apart. You destroy the environment that supports beyond anything else - if you have no self-evident thinking about protecting the environment - and protects tourism. It is the basis of our basic industry. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] I have then explained to you to the committee that the gas - which you are also going on in this pipeline as well as in destructive works within the protected areas - is in retreat at the moment. It has already started banning it in twenty cities in America - one of them is San Francisco - and Houston, Texas, the capital of hydrocarbons worldwide, or at least in America - and too many areas. In the United Kingdom after 2025 every new building will be banned on the use of natural gas in heating. Also, the European Investment Bank at the end of 2021 stops financing natural gas and oil projects of EUR 2 billion. In this setting you invest in dinosaur technologies, in these technologies that some have once brought revenue to some. This time is over. You don't do it for the country. Foreign interests are currently being served, Minister, by those who promote shale gas, as was clearly heard in this Chamber, by those who are promoting oil that is currently collapsed in the protected areas, who are promoting natural gas. This is the service of foreign interests. Obviously this process is based on the unanimity of SYRIZA and on this pipeline and on the burning of waste in the cement industries and the conclusion of the voluntary agreement with the cement industries as the last act of their Ministry of the Environment on the incineration of waste, with NATURA mining and many, many - unfortunately - still. Like the legalization of wildlife trade. Yes, don't look like that, Minister. You brought what SYRIZA had brought, but he didn't have time to go through it because of the elections, the legalisation of the trade in wildlife old age, to hunt some people with and with hawks anymore. The essence of the debate here today is one, it is mining. The essence of the debate is one of the environmentally sound bills you have brought, which has unfortunately become the law of the state, the 'NATURA' mining and protected areas and there, even over there, hydrocarbon research on municipal land, without the permission of the municipalities. Why, Minister, in Epirus, are you looking only for oil, which your rapporteur said is falling short of the price of oil - you are going to destroy the protected areas? Why are local communities and municipalities to which these lands belong? To serve the public interest, do you proceed to the five-year extension of environmental licences, such as the one in Skouria, at the same time as the heart of environmental licensing has been swallowed into the Council of State? Why do you allow us to have uncontrolled disposal sites for extractive waste? It's exactly what the Squirrels have asked for, exactly what has been reported to be done in Squirrels, what the flooding in Olympiad has been found at sea. That's it! What national interest do you serve, whose country? Why do you dismantle the management bodies? Why is trade allowed for wildlife and hunting for hawks? We want you to explain all these reasons and what national interest they serve. Let us put a name on the interests they serve. We are asking you to withdraw this law now, such as withdrawing this contract. And we ask you to stop using nationalism to promote interests to feed mouths of certain entrepreneurs, because that is what is happening in this Chamber. As for those who think that some people serve foreign interests, not to judge the perverts themselves. We invite you to withdraw this pipeline and your environmental bill, as well as to abolish the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by pointing out to everyone that today as in 1920, a hundred years ago, our Thrace was released. You know, it's a very timely message. We must remember these days because even today Thrace is unfortunately at risk from Turkish chauvinism - militarism. And I must also remind you that at that time many of the Thracian Muslims and many Pomacians were in favour of the Greek forces, were in favour of Greece, and that is why we need to understand in this House most of the dates are key to the next decades. I should have been very happy, Mr. Hatzidakis, with today's bill, with today's agreement. But I'm not. And I'm not because you start running a pipeline or you agree to make a pipeline without having heard me as government in 2007, 2008, 2009. At that time, EastMed referred to the Greek Parliament, Mr Hatzidakis, this whole story of pipelines and oil from the only Member of Parliament after the junta, the seven years, who spoke of oil in the Greek Parliament, from the speaker as parliamentarians at that time and everyone in the New Democracy was breaking up. I remember the former Minister of National Economy, not the New Democracy, Mr Papaconstantinou, who called me ironically "oil" in perimeter. I am, of course, pleased to have confirmed everything I said. I'm sorry because we're too late. You'll tell me in politics you have to start doing something. In order for this project to be implemented, there is the agreement, the principle, that is, to start the project, but there is no end, there is not Italy. Don't lie to the Greek people, Minister. Without Italy, it's not going to be a pipeline. That's the reality. The reality, unfortunately, reminds me that you are starting to do a work, a pipeline without having done so, to get permission from the building to build your home. Why haven't we done an EOZ? When you haven't done an EOZ, when you haven't implemented your unilateral self-evident right to determine the EOZ and declare it if you want, you can't pass a pipeline from the area without a risky route. That is the reality and hence the turbulent pact that has taken place to break the pipeline's course. It's not random to choose the Turks. I think some things are done, but they are done in the wrong way. I must remind your Government of something very simple, that the country's unilateral right to the definition of EOZ was not made either by SYRIZA or by New Democracy. We have tabled a special proposal for a law in the New Democracy as your government, Minister. You haven't even implemented her. The Greek Solution unilaterally testified that this country should do this very important energy to guarantee its national laws. You didn't. I was listening to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, and I would like to say that EastMed is not an economic size of choice. It's geostrategic, geo-economic and geopolitical. And unfortunately you do not understand that this is not just about our country. Here we have a grid of countries, Minister. Let the Greek people know what happens from a man who said it decades ago. The United States, Russia and China are the powerful forces of this planet that collide in the Mediterranean and the Middle East. If I'm not mistaken, the pipeline is in the Mediterranean. These countries, therefore, have an interest either in becoming or not being a pipeline. Clear things. Because a country like Greece, which has been strong in the European Union, bankrupt in recent years, has its own alliances and has the European Union. I must tell you here, Minister, to tell the Greek people everything, that Germany does not want EastMed to be. Don't make fun of the world. Italy does not want EastMed to be EastMed for its own reasons that I will explain in a moment. I want the Greek people to understand today that the Greek Solution did not enter here to shout, sing and cry against the government. He came to put specific suggestions in your ear, in your brain to implement them. We are going to Germany: Does anyone think that the country that wants to become Europe's gas locker with NordStream, in breach of the embargo that the European Union has committed to Russia, is making a pipeline to the secret from the Baltic Sea, writing to the oldest of its footwear the embargo it has placed on Russia? Germany is doing business with Russia and Greece cannot sell its peaches to Russia because it has put the embargo and they are doing EUR billions of breath. So Germany, who wants to become the portrait, will never let Greece make EastMed. I want us to understand in here what we're talking about. We are talking about an agreement that is good. I've been saying it since 2008, I'm not saying it now. If we did it back then we'd have caught up with developments, but we always go with time delay. We are going to Italy: I shall shortly tell you, Minister, not just the figures he has told you, the 19-20 billion Italian-Turkey trade, which Italy clearly will never want to become an enemy with Turkey by making a duct, if you like, a profit for Italy. I want you to understand that you are starting to go from Thessaloniki to Athens knowing that Athens has been "devastated". There's no Athens. Where are you going? There's no Italy. The first country to sign was Italy. The beginning and the end of the pipeline. There's no beginning here, there's no EOZ, i.e. middle, there's no Italy. What are we talking about here? I will talk about China: You know very well in New Democracy, everyone you know - I imagine some inter-ethnicists you have here, because inter-ethnicists in theory know them better - that China is a major player in Africa, sub-Saharan Africa, and in other African countries about its wealthy sources. You know that China has also sent warships to the Mediterranean. You know it plays a part. The road to silk is very important. But the Americans don't want him. They don't want the Americans. Do you see how conflicting the interests are? How contradictory and conflicting? To go to Egypt, your friendly Egypt, because you say Egypt is our friend. I think she should be our friend and we need to make good relations. Minister, the Zohr look, do you know where it is? You don't know. Let me tell you where it is. It is precisely in the contribution of the Greek, Cypriot and Egyptian EEZ. It's just underneath the three-point point. Do you know what that means? They smile because, you know, the neo-democratics are ironic. They have an ironic attitude toward anyone who tells them something because they know everything. It's the fifth of the great minds that came here, the Einsteins who came here and went bankrupt the country and put new blood now. With pretension, arrogance, smiles think we can do business. The Zohr look, gentlemen, to learn - if you don't want to know, don't learn - is right in the tri-international EOZ of Egypt, Cyprus and Greece. It's there and it's drilling now Egypt. It drills where our country or Cyprus could drill. So why would he want EastMed when he's getting ready with Israel to make SouthMed, who you don't even know about. SouthMed is the pipeline that starts from Israel, Egypt and goes Libya. It has become the channel of Israel - Egypt and all that remains is Libya’s control, hence Egypt supports Haftar and Italy supports Sarah. It's just stuff! Why do you deceive and deceive the Greek people? Why don't you tell him the whole truth? That's the reality. Now listen to the conflicting interests: Huffhar is based on Egypt and Russia, but Huffar was trained in the United States as a man of the Americans when they would need him later. You know where, don't you? Langley. I don't say it, his résumé says it. They trained Huffar, whom I met, the United States' special secret services, and the Greek Government should support him at this stage because he is in favour of Greek interests, but you do not support him. Also, Egypt is an enemy of Turkey, because it wants to emerge as a new superpower in the region as well as the efforts of the chief leader, Ceci, to make a navy, “much the sea state”, Thucydides. Without navy you are not a superpower or a regional force. But come on when Egypt, a friend of Russia, is an enemy of Turkey when Russia is friendly to Turkey. Look at the conflict of interests, I'm telling you. It's not easy. One signature was put, we're happy, we tell the Greek people, it's done. That's not how things work. I'm sorry to say that, but that's not how things work. We're going to the United States. The United States suffered a big case. They had invested in slate gas, which is expensive. It is now extremely expensive to extract it by falling the price of oil and all this history. It's expensive. And, of course, it invested in the diligence of the Greek governments, which easily gave basis throughout Greece, see. Alexandroupolis, without winning anything. We have not won anything, and I challenge the Minister here to tell me what he is winning from Commissioner Pyatt and the United States, from the placement of a six-mile Koplus terminal outside Alexandroupolis, assisting the Americans. Let's tell us what we're gaining. Let me say I'm gaining something. What do I get? Unfortunately, I don't win. I would also like to say this: there is Israel, which, for me, is a very important country, a key country, which should have really been another policy with them for decades. In words, we're good. I think the New Democracy is doing a better job than Israel. And before. But we must speed up good relations with Israel, because it is a regulatory factor in the wider region. Always on a reservation, however, that Israel does not want war with Turkey. Clear things. And it seemed from a lot of cases. But it is the catalyst of this country and Egypt for us, do not be fooled. I therefore propose to the Government to make better contacts and communications with Israel and Egypt in the background. But it's real. And with Huffar. We left Huffar alone. Why? He came here, I met him when he went to see Mr. Dendia, here at the hotel, across the street. You have to make good relationships, it's important. Will you tell me, the enemy of my enemy is my friend? Oh, no. But it helps you. Sometimes I say to the Members of the New Democracy, very sympathetic to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have been bankrupt in the country. Let go of the smiles." Let's all be sad together, because we went bankrupt the country. We should take it that way. Let's all be serious, all of us. Because our country went bankrupt because it made our political system or our politicians a big mistake. It's some of them, though. We can't smile in here. We bankrupt a country. I put me in, you see, I don't take the Greek Solution out, although it's not our fault, it's not the KKE, it's my fault, it's MERA25 -- it's my fault, SYRIZA. PASOK - New Democracy It's your fault, you bankrupt the country. Listen at least. It's not bad. It's not bad to hear a man telling you five things you didn't know in 2007, 2008, that you were government. I told you and you were all laughing at me in New Democracy. I was telling you about AOZ, about exclusive economic zones. And I'm telling you about Italy. Why don't you say, Minister, why does Italy not agree with us? Let me tell you something. Fishing zones: Since 1981 the European Union has been using directives and norms to force all governments to establish fishing zones in our country. Why don't you determine? End date 2021, March is. Let the transmigrants look into it that you've got a lot of experts here. End date, March 2021. If it does not happen until then, we lose the advantage, because the Italians want to fish in the Ionian Sea want a larger fishing zone. I get it. Yeah, but my right, does Italy deprive me of it? Oh, no. Let's put pressure on there at least. Find some pressure points to Italy to agree. I won't say about SouthMed. You'll find it for a couple of years. SouthMed is a pipeline from Israel to Libya, via Egypt. Look a little bit longer. It's not bad. I am not the expert, but our advisors in the Greek Solution and the people who are years with them know five things, which they tell me, I look for them, I explore them and I testify them. We are now going to the other crimes, which, unfortunately, you do not want to understand. EC internal market, free movement of persons, freedom to provide services, You want Italy, now listen, to sign a pipeline, which will never be signed, I say it here, while Italy wins 20 billion in 2017 from trade relations with Turkey. Are you fooling them through Italians? Minister, 20 billion dollars a year. Commercial balance of 20 billion. Period 2017, Italian investment, 3.1 billion dollars in Turkey. And if you don't believe me, I have a document from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs to see it. I'm filing it in the Minutes. Don't think I'm saying it myself. Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkey, 2017. Elements. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, listen to what our friend Italy, who wants the signature of the Minister and Greece, is doing. Turkish helicopters T129 Italian construction, Gokturk observation satellites, their satellites, Italian production - construction, their armoured naval firearms 76-62, are all Italian, all. A national air traffic system, Mr Loverdo, which helps them very much in the Aegean. Italian equipment. The Minister is smiling. She's got a smile all the time, which I like, she's sympathetic. But he does not understand that the pain of the Greek people does not want smiles. I'm telling him what Italy's doing. And I'm telling him Italy won't sign. I tell him, and then he will say, "I knew it." And he's smiling. I'm sorry, but I have another point of view. Turkish space program, made in Italy, FIAT engine on Altai tanks, made in Italy, providing equipment for a Karapinar fire field, made in Italy. And the Italian Minister is waiting if Italy is not pressed and it doesn't get any more money to sign. He won't sign. I won't tell about most of the evidence I have in front of me. I will say this: for example, exports of Italian arms to Pakistan of about one billion, in Qatar of two billion, in Turkey of this year around EUR 400 million. In all countries that are hostile to Greece, symptomatic, and friendly with Turkey, Pakistan, Qatar and Turkey. Sadly or happily. I tell you that the net of conflicting interests is not in line with the government's optimism. I wish it would. We agree, we will, we will. But I don't see it happening, because there's not just what I want. There's what others want. And that's not what you weigh well, Minister. You're not weighing it well at all. Also, on 19 May we have the genocide of the Pontius. The House and the President, Mr Tasoulos, Mr Minister, agreed to lighten the House on 19 May. I asked the President, the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister to send a memo to all the mayors of Greece, who on 19 May could light up all their town halls at night. I have asked for it, and I am glad to see the President of Parliament agree. So let's ask Mr. Theodorikos to make a phone call to the mayors, send an e-mail and tell them "damn on 19 May for the Pontian genocide all the mayors". Because that night we must all be Pontius, like all French, all Americans, all Greeks, when the others had suffered something. It is a genocide, and finally let the government - whatever government - make it self-evident, internationalize the genocide of the Pontius. In closing, I would just like to point out a few things. With the coroner, I had too much to say, but I have to say this. We are told by the European Union and the Government, Minister, that we will be four people per table, two metres away. Okay, I hear that makes sense. But on the planes, we're all going in together. I can hear it a little insane. It's a little contradictory. He told me a friend: “How will that happen? We enter two hundred people on one plane, but at the tavern will we be two meters across from each other?" Look, I understand the difficulty of the Government, and I'm telling you this sincerely, because it's a big problem, find the way. It's for granted. But I'll say it so people can figure it out. All this shows that we're not ready for what's coming. I'll say it again. The difficulties for the economy are coming from September. The absentees will come in September, we will have hunger, I have said a thousand times, I repeat, and I wish I could make a mistake, I wish we had the best government in the last two hundred years and the best ministers would not be hungry by the Greeks. I wish that, and I wish you, because for our country we must all wish for the best, not to wish the worst. But I have to say, I wonder about the logic of the government when Mr Chiodra says that 50% of the cases were imported, how will tourists come with the planes by thousands or millions on each other? Mr. Chiodras said it was imported 50% of cases. Imported from abroad. So how am I gonna let all Europe come here? We'll get them, he says test. But the scientists you're pulling out on the channels say the one test looks good, and tomorrow you might be sick. Everything is contradictory. And listen, Mr. Hatzidakis, from Crete you are, the cry of the hotel owners of Crete. You know what they said? "We fear that our hotels will become hospitals at the end." One is gonna get sick and quarantine the whole hotel. We must all sit down, but we must all make proposals to the Greek Government. Let the Prime Minister call on us to talk seriously about this, because a government alone, a pandemic and a huge issue of this kind can be difficult to deal with. That's our point of view. They need proposals. I would also like to say that I wonder about the government - because the Prime Minister and you, as I know, are a reformer and want transparency - how it gives EUR 147,000 to the company Papoutsis directly assigned. This is a document from your ministry. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It grants the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs the company "PAPOTSANIS" for 147,000 euros to get antiseptics. Why, you guys?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u30	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u31	Here! Here it is, Mr. Davaki. Because you're a well-known controversy, the papers are here. It's not bad. Believe and don't investigate. I would like to say that you are doing well and you are questioning, but I will not tell you about other assignments. You've been commissioned by law with Mr. Mitarakis for illegal immigrants. It was millions of euros, Mr. Davaki. Can your Minister, in spite of all, assign the money and question the 140,000? Here it is. It's your document. It's not mine. Turning off to say this. I'm Mr. Chiodra and Mr. Symbol. I like them. They're like scientists. Honestly, I'm saying this so that some people don't think it's personal what I'm going to say. I have before me the documents on 'SURVEILLANCE'. These two teachers, Mr. Synsas, Mr. Dykos, Mr. Tsiodras, who insist that all Greeks be vaccinated, have taken - listen to number - 1.300,000 euros as responsible for the programmes that they finance most of the pharmaceutical companies. We've been talking about 1,300,000 euros for the last two years. I'll testify to the Minutes. It's the papers in here. It's 1,300,000. I'm not saying it's illegal. But how moral is it that informs the Greek people about vaccines and medicines to get them from pharmaceutical companies? I'm not saying it's illegal, I repeat. I'm saying how moral it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u32	So don't we make vaccines?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u33	That's not what I said, sir. That's not what I said. And if you force me, I won't. Do you have any problems? I don't want to have a vaccine. Will you force me to make a vaccine? Leave the smart stuff from Pella. I'm from Pella. Those clever ones aren't me. Now we're going to the point. Clearly, the handkerchief will do it and for tuberculosis you will do, but other dull quality vaccines will not necessarily do, gentlemen. Understood? Because that's not what we're talking about. In fact, the New Democracy is smiling. What's 1,300,000 euros? Two people took 1,300,000 euros and what do they mind? They're friends and they call them good on TVs and it suits them. I am tabling the Minutes and that. If they're too small, they're yours. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm hanging up here saying that. On the issue of illegal immigrants, I will say something very simple. The New Democracy reminds me of SYRIZA's blue shop. On the issue of illegal immigrants, you do what they do. What Kammens did, which you denounced from here, by direct assignments of millions of euros, do so too. Instead of taking them to the inhabited islands, you take them wherever you want. Hey, listen up. What are the White Helmets in Lesvos, Ministers? Minister, what are they doing in Lesvos? Get on their website. The White Helmets, they say, are in Lesvos, in Moria. What are they doing there? White Helmets are for war zones. What are they doing there? It's their post. If you look into it, you'll find it. Yesterday there were hundred illegal immigrants again. You said you sealed the border. A hundred people came in. And I'm wondering, and I'm really saying that. You have checked and done good in the government, and I will say this once again to the three NGOs the other day. Congratulations! But three out of four hundred is 1%. It's the beginning, you'll tell me and we'll agree, but there's no good here late than never. Close NGOs, make them genuinely audited, all NGOs. But tell us what these three NGOs you control and where your "pads" come out, the neo-democrats, to your trolls and say it's 2,000 euros head. They're taking 2,000 euros to the head. Do you understand? To sleep in a room the NGOs. Who are these NGOs? Why don't you say? Why doesn't your ministry say? After you checked. If you checked on someone else, you'd announce it. You would say: 'We have checked on this.' And you're doing well, but not only three. They're four hundred, five hundred. They're the ones to check. Of course, because my fellow Member, my co-rapporteur, does not believe me in Article 155, says that you are giving the municipalities benefits to host illegal immigrants. What benefits? The municipalities will pay less electricity fees, they will pay less cleaning fees, less electric lighting, they will pay less real estate fees. So those of you who accept illegal immigrants - immigrants - want refugees, as you want, illegal people, said by Mr Villardos, who does not like the term 'lathroid immigrants', do not care about me - will be paid. This is called redeeming the silence of the mayors. It is said - I will say it directly - a mayor of silver, I repeat it, to shut up and not speak. Of course this picture is from Samos. I'll show it to you, because some of you have sensitivity. Here, gentlemen of the New Democracy, see from here, the rest of you don't have to. It's the highway connecting Samos airport, my Minister, with Vathy. All illegal immigrants have been set up to the right and left from the road and in the middle, Mr. Loverdos. And they don't mind. They're afraid of people going to talk. I'm saying this because in Thebes they took hajars - you know - and they were after the local farmers when the farmers went to defend themselves. Recorded the report to SKAI. Because you go to SKAI from New Democracy, check out the report. Also recorded in the “MEGA” report that they desecrate temples in Moria. They have not left church for church, iconostasis for iconostasis, image for image. If that's what it's called hammering and multiculturalism, I have another point of view. And because you don't believe it, there you are. This is our Lady in Moria yesterday. There's a discomfort from there, but don't forget I'm president. You're still a congressman. Until you're president, you have a long time. Wait a minute. Well, let's actually go. And I close as follows. I do not want you to be 'blue SYRIZA'. You have a patriotic speech and a patriotic party of decades, that's what I'm saying. Hold the country up, or we'll all go down together. I don't care about the Greek solution. We'll all crumble as a country and as a nation. Of course, some international professors don't love the nations very much, because very simply the Pontian Genocide was not there, the Macedontsi were Macedonians and all these related flammations and the so-called experts who don't know that the "drug" is "what you do" in Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u34	Thank you. We will continue with the speakers. We're starting with Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. As a humble congressman, having seven minutes, I will confine myself to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the discovery of natural gas in the underwater space of major Hellenism is a blessing or a curse? Is it a blessing why the prospects of the economy are being strengthened and the geostrategic importance of Greece and Cyprus is being upgraded, or is it a curse because it triggers the reflexes of Turkey and can lead to a hot episode? The importance of energy sources for economic development is undeniable. In today's era of rapid economic growth, energy plays an even more important role given the constant growing needs of a world population multiplying at a terrible rate. In this context, the European Union, with the increasing need for energy resources, which it itself does not have, except for some stocks in the north, is looking for new sources. As oil is gradually replaced by less polluting energy materials and since we are still away from the desired level of use of renewable energy sources, natural gas is undoubtedly an advantageous solution. The discovery of important gas deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean, so close to the European continent, represents an excellent opportunity for the countries of Europe as an alternative and complementary route of supply with Russia primarily or in the Caspian Sea. This is of enormous value, as this reduces the side effects of monopolistic training, but also possible geopolitical turbulence. I mention what happened in the case of Ukraine and its confrontation with Russia. For Hellenism as a whole, this new parameter is an excellent luck, with economic, geopolitical and general national dimensions, which in no way is allowed to leave unexploited. And that seems to me to be a common place for most of the political forces, as evidenced by the time-consuming support of the EastMed pipeline from all governments from 2010 onwards. Greece and Cyprus are therefore dynamically entering the new energy map that is being shaped, with a decisive role, I would say, and irreplaceable. The Middle East will be united, through this grand project, with the European continent through our two states, which are geographically and culturally the borders of Europe. It is now already forming a different landscape, with the preparation of this project alone. This, moreover, demonstrates the deepening of cooperation, which now has a strategic character, of Greece, Cyprus and Italy, as well as developing relations with other states in the region, such as Egypt and beyond, such as the United States of America. Greece through these options strongly declares present in its neighbourhood developments. Ladies and gentlemen, there is, of course, no doubt that the new situation in the Eastern Mediterranean is causing irritation in our neighbouring country, which does not hide its revised neo-hottoman views, seeking a hegemonic role throughout the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East. Therefore, instead of joining the rules of international law equally and proportionately in the context of international agreements on the exploitation of rich production sources and their routes, it shall choose the policy of reciprocity and the flagrant violation of any concept of international law. We find this daily in the Cypriot EEZ, where illegally researching and drilling ships commit an Attila number 3. Even now, in the midst of the Koroni crisis, and the companies that have undertaken research and drilling on specific land from the Republic of Cyprus have postponed their work until 2021, Turkey continues its hawaii, seeking to create a fait accompli. We also see this in the case of the illegal memorandum signed with Libya, with the Government of Tripoli, and its intention to launch investigations next to Crete, challenging even the continental shelf, at the same time that, in violation of the agreement on an arms embargo in the Libyan civil War, it is constantly sending weapons, Syrian mercenaries and military advisers. The role of international turbulence, however, we find it also in the Aegean, which disputes Greek sovereign rights, with daily violations, overcrowdings and reviewing majesticisms for “blue homelands”. In the face of this crescendo of aggression, however, the best answer is Greece's determination to go ahead with its agreements, strengthen its alliances, highlight its fairness. How effective all of this was seen by Erdogan's reaction to the declaration of five: Greece, Cyprus, Egypt, France and the United Arab Emirates. Ladies and gentlemen, in some respects the concern about the viability of the project has recently been put on the table since the collapse of oil prices. Of course, the juncture due to the coronary does not favour energy designs. However, let us not forget that this is a temporary situation and does not affect to the same extent natural gas. In any case, we must see the reality with acidity rather than mysticality. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the port that we are putting today by ratifying EastMed's transnational agreement can help create an environment of stability, security and prosperity for Greece and Hellenism in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u36	We thank the colleague for keeping time. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor from SYRIZA, then Mr. Katrinis from the Change Movement, and then the Minister will take the floor. Minister, I was informed that you wanted to speak after three...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u37	After six, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u38	Good. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate today is very interesting because, while there is a large majority of support for the draft convention, because, as our rapporteur has shown, the EastMed pipeline is an important geostrategic gain for Greece, there have also been considerable differences in the way the various parties perceive diplomacy, energy and the major economic issues. My first point is that every debate on foreign policy must be done soberly. It is totally unacceptable that the new Republic's rapporteur on the service of foreign interests should be abducted from those who disagree and do not vote on the bill. And it is numerously relapsed by the New Democracy, because with a corresponding arson demagogy it has also been placed on other foreign policy issues, especially Macedonian, in order to reach, of course, today, congratulations to Northern Macedonia - rightly - for its integration into NATO. Usually, such overpatriotism hides the impossibility of genuine support for national interests. One year you have not activated the Committee on School Books, and while there has been agreement since September to withdraw unacceptable revision texts, this agreement is not served. So, in foreign policy, you must also have the seriousness to support the relevant issues, but also the effectiveness of their service. What are the main differences that have emerged? There is, indeed, a national concept, a common national strategy that characterises our country over time. We're a peaceful country. We are relying on the promotion of our national interests in International Law, not on the promotion of power. But it is not enough to have a good strategy, you must be able to serve it effectively. This is our first major difference. The rapporteur of the Change Movement rightly pointed out that EastMed has a prehistoric history. But how did it happen? There was a legal and political station, both due to SYRIZA's active diplomacy, which has been able to carry out a project that has been pending for over ten years, as has been done in many other reforms, or national ones - see forest maps, see consolidation of insurers at national level - or also at the level of foreign policy, again with Macedonian, for example. The "convention" for the preparation of the contract was signed for a memorandum of understanding for co-operation between Cyprus - Greece - Israel and Italy, signed in Nicosia on 5 December 2017. This finalized and definitively launched the signing of the agreement. And, of course, the major political station was the meeting "three plus one" in Jerusalem on March 23, 2019, where the United States Minister for Foreign Affairs was given the geostrategic inclination of the United States. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, on both of these issues you are lagging behind. You could not secure Italy's signature in the Convention, despite the existence of the 2017 Memorandum of Understanding, nor could the Prime Minister in his visit to America draw support from President Trump, similar to what we had secured. But it is not just the difference in effectiveness. We have a significant difference of understanding in the multi-dimensional foreign policy and in how to promote a coherent strategy. Speakers have referred earlier - and it is a good fact - to the five-day statement from France, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Cyprus. This is a continuation of our own policy. However, it shows, even contrary to what you have to say, the delay in the promotion of similar schemes, which have led to them - because in diplomacy there is also a constant - in successions such as those of EastMed's signature. And I'm explaining. First of all, our policy was characterized by the diversity and the need to promote in a multidimensional manner the interests of our country. Thus, our relations with the United States, which were upgraded strategically with the launch of strategic dialogue, did not depend on a conception that still characterises a part of the Greek right that Greece is an advanced imprisonment in the United States, but on the contrary on the understanding of interests, on the need for the Eastern Mediterranean region to be politically stable and on ensuring energy diversification in Europe. It is for this reason that the upgrading of our relations with the United States has coincided with the upgrading of our cooperation with China. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the main feature of our policy was systematic, programming and active diplomacy. The pentamer is the result of the multiple tripartite partnerships which we have promoted, but which we have not left at the ad hoc level. We had contacted Cyprus - something that you have not gone through - to have a secretariat of these tripartite schemes so that they can acquire a permanent character based in Nicosia, and a political forum to be able to evolve into a regional cooperation system through the Rhodes Conference. These have been abandoned. As your side completely abandoned the major diplomatic tool of Med7, the cooperation of the countries of the South. Why do they have contact with EastMed? Because we see that the political support that some countries have given EastMed, for example Italy, to weaken. There is information that is not disputed, that even the Italian company 'ENI' not only shows trends of distance from the project, but that it is negotiating with the Turkish oil company, in which sanctions were imposed on the latter, as you know, a meeting of the European Council in which Alexis Tsipras represented the country as Prime Minister. The conclusion of this is as follows. When the systematic and coherent promotion of the country's interests is abandoned, when defenceally and then a holiday we try to react to the pressures and movements of others, lose in diplomatic capital and lose in efficiency. Because I have exhausted time, there is also a third element of differentiation in our policy, which is about how we understand energy and the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Colleague, please complete. You've already reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u41	You're right, Mr. President. I'd like your tolerance for thirty seconds. Our policy has been combined with an effective effort to protect and protect the country's ecological interests, with the introduction of a hydrocarbon observatory, with the ban on fracking, to which you are not following us. Most importantly, however, we had ensured the financing of the project by providing, with Law No4602/2019, that the Infrastructure PPA would finance the construction needs of the project. With your choices in favour of scrapping and cutting off public enterprises, rendering all of the infrastructures to private individuals, you abolished this possibility. So, ladies and gentlemen, we support a bill that we have actually achieved. We must, however, bear in mind that the project is not completed with the bill and that, in order for it to be implemented, you must review important aspects of your policy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u42	Now Mr. Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the EastMed pipeline comes for ratification in Parliament at a time when the coronary pandemic also has dramatic repercussions on the energy sector and I am naturally referring to the unprecedented fall in oil prices. The competition between Russia and Saudi Arabia has already been under way, and on European territory an energy economic war was about to erupt between the United States of America on the one hand, Russia and China on the other hand, as was cleared by the statements by the US Secretary of State, Mr Pompeo, in relation to the financing of energy projects in countries of central and eastern Europe, to strengthen their energy independence towards Russia. Of course, the debate is also taking place within the framework of the permanent Turkish strategy that seeks to control all energy went and all the energy passages in the region, questioning the sovereignty of neighbouring countries. Of course, we also witnessed an event of high escalation in Evros, which ended with Turkey's withdrawal because of the strong resistance of the Greek forces, but also because of the outbreak of the pandemic. However, Turkey has historically not been used to us in an introverted manner when it is facing serious internal problems, such as now that its net foreign exchange assets are unavailable, and Mr Erdogan, after a long time, is starting to get into trouble. Turkey is stepping up infringements in the Aegean. Mr Tsavosoglou raises new doubts about national sovereignty and threatens new incidents of the use of refugee - immigration. Turkey continues to claim the exploitation of sea zones that do not belong to it and to create illegal headlines in Libya and false impressions about an agreement with Israel that has fortunately been disproved immediately. In all this, the only response is a single national front in the interior, as well as reliable alliances with the countries of the South-East Mediterranean, which remove the possibility from the neighbouring country to monopolize energy sources, but also the transit of pipelines. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that during times of global turbulence there are major turbulences in the economy, changes in geopolitical balances and revisions in international alliances, but also cooperation. It is also a fact that some will rush to benefit, gain a head start where they did not have or strengthen their position even more in various areas. It is therefore not a question of moving behind developments in order to prevent them, but of starting them and shaping them. This is what the PASOK governments have always done to guide the country's foreign policy with a view to the future, in the directions that served our geopolitical interests, and which took the role of the country as a force of peace, stability and development in the wider region, with visible results, of which Greece is still taking advantage. It was a foreign policy that always had vision, design, had a time depth, but had a multidimensional character. And this is the case with the agreement on the EastMed pipeline we are debating today, whose bases were laid by the PASOK government in 2010, with Prime Minister George Papandreou, when other political forces were then blaming us for a short-sighted policy that poses risks to the country and the region. I listened with particular interest to the abhorrence of the previous Mr. Katrugalos who recognized Christos Gokas as saying that this pipeline has a history and belongs to many governments. Of course, Mr Katrugale, you remember that in 2010, when these bases were set for the pipeline, some were giving this battle and some were at some other borderlines and giving other battles, not necessarily in favour of national interest. And I say this to restore historical reality and truth. This agreement, therefore, which many successive governments have worked for, cannot be sure when it will reach its final conclusion. There are many stages that are taking place and this is because, as I said at the outset, there are no longer any doubts in the international environment. The only certainty is that when you create cooperation networks for countries in an area, at the same time creating a axis of stability and security. And that is the case we are talking about today in the Eastern Mediterranean, which creates another dynamic, by sending multiple messages to many directions, but also to too many recipients. It is for this reason that the ratification of the agreement we are debating today in this House is an important step, but there is also a need for many other steps and continuous actions, so that it can be implemented and implemented, but also for the country as well as for the national economy. Such a case is, Minister, and to ensure the viability of the pipeline - and I told you in the debate with the Commission - through the strengthening of the cooperation of the PPA with a company that has been leading the country's energy landscape for many years and has been playing a key role in the hydrocarbon mining operation in the coming years. This is because this company, like many other oil companies, is currently suffering from a global crisis at the price of oil and it needs the government's practical support to ensure the EastMed pipeline's viability, but also the whole attempt to extract hydrocarbons, with all the results it can have for the energy balance, but also for the country's economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At a time when global economic colosses, because of the situation and because of the crisis, are gradually withdrawn from similar projects in the region, making a legitimate concern. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that we must not be a forerunner of developments. We must not expect the next step of Turkish aggression and provocation to react. We are not allowed to dismiss important diplomatic instruments, such as sanctions - our Parliamentary spokesman, Andreas Loverdes, at the meeting of the Foreign Policy Council yesterday - and we are not allowed to stay outside the talks table, as was the case in the case of the international procedures for Libya. The agreement on the EastMed pipeline obviously cannot prevent Turkish aggression in the region. It is, however, an important agreement with a wider dimension and perspective for the country, which we believe and obviously are voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr Katrin, and for the time. Mr George Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now. Here, Mr Marino, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in practice, it has been shown that the strategy that serves the interests of capital is manifested both by the attack on labour rights and by the country's dangerous involvement in imperialist planning. This direction goes through the policy of the Government of New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL, as well as the other parties. In this direction, the anti-popular strategic partnership has been built. Part of this policy is the agreement to be discussed on the EastMed pipeline for the transport of gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to Europe through Greece and Italy. In the explanatory statement and the position of the rapporteurs of the other parties, the actual elements of competition for energy sources and pipelines, which will escalate into the conditions of the capitalist crisis, are concealed in the explanatory statement and the position of the rapporteurs of the other parties. Two imperialist wars are under way in Syria and Libya. In the Eastern Mediterranean, arranged military forces of the United States, the European Union, Russia and other states are moving in concrete planning. The claims made by the Turkish bourgeoisie are escalating and exploiting the unacceptable Turkish - Libyan agreement that moves to geographical coordinates adjacent to those of EastMed. These developments are crucial. They enclose very dangerous energy. In practice, it has been shown that as much as our country's involvement strengthens in imperialist planning with the United States, NATO and the European Union, or the agreements with Israel, that competition is so exacerbated and that the situation in Greek-Turkish relations is complicated. That is exactly what is being proved in practice. I shall mention another example that supports this conclusion. The government is involved in the Euro-Union peace operation in Libya under the pretext of respecting the arms embargo, and at the same time the war is miraculous. Turkey is armed with the forces of Sarajevo and Egypt, with the United Arab Emirates, Hufftar. Gentlemen of the Government, Minister, you are building a pipeline without having solved the problem of delimiting the Exclusive Economic Lives which is a factor in the firing of tragic situations. Both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA show cooperation with the State of Israel, which murders the Palestinian people and is preparing for new annexations of Palestinian territories with the backs of the Americans. You care about the reactions of the Palestinian authority and Lebanon, which denounce the Israeli violation of maritime zones, and this same practice alibis the provocative attitude of the Turkish bourgeoisie that follows the same practice of trespassing. We welcome the strengthening of the presence of the United States in the Eastern Mediterranean, based on the "EastMed Act" law exploited by American imperialism to expand its action in the conflict race with Russia and China. The EastMed pipeline moves in the general context of the rehab of the European Union from Russian gas. Russia is reacting and you are degrading the fact that immediately after the Genoa agreement on EastMed, Turkey and Russia's urban ranks have responded with the inauguration of the TurkStream pipeline, which seeks to transport Russian gas to Europe. You count Italy as a partner, but the Italian Government is in love with China, Russia and Turkey. The bucket of imperialist opposition and competition is very complex and simplifications lead to dead ends. Regardless of the possibility of resolving EastMed's technical economic problems, the pipeline will be at the service of the interests of energy groups and manufacturers of companies and will lead Greece more deeply to imperialist tests, increasing the risks to our people. This is the real mark and KKE's positions are confirmed by the experience of energy pipelines that were a source of imperialist interventions and wars in Syria and in other countries, while in Cyprus the presence of the American "EXON MOBIL", the French "TOTAL", the Italian "ENI" which has now suspended the drilling, not only did it not solve the problem of Turkish occupation, but it further complicates the situation and the stalls that are going on with Turkey. The JRC's positions are also confirmed by the experience of the TAP pipeline to channel azeri gas into Europe. You said, Minister, rocked rabbits for the TAP pipeline, but the benefits for the people are nonexistent. Energy poverty remains. People's families are expensively paying electricity. The same applies to EastMed, and the reason is well known. The wealthy sources are in the hands of monopolistic groups, the urban state and its governments are serving the great interests. The utilization of our country's productive potential requires radical changes, the organization of the economy and society on the basis of popular needs and not capitalist profit, requires international relations on the basis of the mutual benefit of the people and the release of imperialist alliances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u46	Thank you to my colleague for the time. Following Mr. Mylonakis from the Greek Solution, Ms. Bakadima from Mera25, the Minister and the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u48	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u49	Immediately afterwards, Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Hetas will speak if he wants. Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, since the first time the Greek Solution entered this sacred space, he promised one thing. It is not going to make a structural opposition, make a creative with proposals for opposition, and I think that so far we have kept it. I have never thought sincerely - and I am very sorry that the Parliamentary representative and the rapporteur of the New Democracy are also missing - that there should be MPs in the Greek Parliament who have been voted on by the Greek people - and he is telling you that, if you take it as selfish, a pilot - who do not understand what a speaker says. I was amazed, Minister, that I also discussed it with Mr Ceridis a little while ago - that you did not understand that the Greek Solution has a position and a time-consuming attitude and does not change. You had the opportunity before - and we had the opportunity of those who were in the Greek Parliament, in plenary, and for those who attended the speech of the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, who is present and thank him once again - to listen to a geopolitical - geostrategic lesson. I think we all have to sit down and see geostrategic and how it can be applied in our country. I do not hide from you that in the 1990s, twenty-five years ago, I was a sub-commander of the helicopters in Alexandria, I saw Kyriakos Velopoulos as a new journalist at the time, who was in marketing, television and for the first time I heard of pipelines, oil, energy and so on. I followed Yannis Mazis - my good friend - who, Minister, I think should be exploited by every government. It is a "Cavusoglou" of Greece. And, of course, I also attended Foscolo, the professor of geophysics, who learned several things to the Greek people and has shown the direction. But I never understood how no one in New Democracy could understand - or at least that's what Mr. Courides told me a moment ago - the position of the Greek Solution. The position of the Greek Solution was, is, is and will be one. Anything that has to do with our country for the benefit of the country and the Greek people will say "yes" and its proposals will always be in this direction. Of course, and EastMed is an opportunity for geostrategic support from our country. But let's think about twenty years ago when it should have happened, or fifteen years ago, how many things we'd have had to catch up with. And when we tell you some things, Minister, take them. We are starting to sign an agreement with Israel, with Cyprus and Italy. Italy's out of the game. Yesterday with Mr Loverdos - and Mr Katrugalo is here on the National Council, which I have the honour of being a member - we asked the Minister what was going on with the demarcation of the EEZ, and we raised it as a matter of matter, Minister. The whole world understands it. That is what our special speaker, Mr Villardos, and the President of the Greek Solution have already said to you, and they are all saying so. It's not something that we took off our minds. Why does Italy not sign? The Minister replied that there are still some problems with the fishing areas. And that's why I'm telling you that there are things that we can't talk about on the one hand, but on the other hand, you must understand some things, when we tell you and don't open your mouth and ask yourself: "What now is the President of Greek Solution saying and in what direction is the party?" The party has a defined direction. Therefore, we have not signed the Exclusive Economic Zone, we have no demarcated with Italy, that is, Italy, where it ends. You will tell me "Poseidon" nine hundred and fifty kilometers, which connects Thesprotia with Italy and can help this pipeline, which will move in parallel or pour out. No, it's wrong. It can't be ejected. Also, what will our country gain from transit? What are the transit fees? He doesn't say in it if we're gonna win anything from this story. We have the other big issue, which we have not yet solved, and Erdogan warned us, and you know very well that Erdogan's warning is a hit man. He'll do it. The Minister for Energy two days ago said it is a matter of time to demarcate and cut plots in our own Exclusive Economic Zone, which we have demarcated with Libya, the illegal one. We have given you a draft law that we are prepared to table with maps, with legal arguments, in the UN, so that we too can present our own economic zone, the exclusive economic zone of our country in the Eastern Mediterranean, and do not do so. The government doesn't do it. What is the reason the government doesn't do this? Is there a reason? If, in the morning, it says 'I cut the plots there and I send 'Yavuz', as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said yesterday - six times has pierced the plot 'Aphrodite' in Cyprus, the Cyprus Exclusive Economic Zone - what are we going to do? And "Yavuj" goes and starts and pierces, what are we going to do? I'm asking. We have also not defined, signed defensively, be careful, Minister - the safety of the pipeline. In other words, he will start from Israel, from 'Leviathan', to Cyprus, he will come to Crete. Throughout this place, until it goes up Thesprotia, all over the Peloponnese and others, if anything happens in our homeland, why should we have the sole responsibility for pipeline security and not all the countries and Israel and Cyprus and Greece and Italy? So we have three things that I told you right now that this international agreement must be in place, that you can sign and make agreements. I am not talking about the Communist Party, which said that Israel was the murderers of the Palestinian people and everything else. I neither want to hear them nor can I imagine them, that there are Greek MPs accusing a state of being murderers elsewhere. Israel could say "and you Palestinians, come the Palestinians, dress up with drugs, enter the market in Tel Aviv and kill a hundred and fifty innocent civilians, people, children small". We have nothing to do with this. As far as Israel is concerned, it is a state with which at the moment and in previous years - because we have learned to take the blame above our hump - we were not close. I have been remembering Andrew Papandreou for the Palestinians for years, only scars were not worn here to tell us what a good people the Palestinians are and what the Israelis are. And you wanted Israel to come to us? So these agreements are serious. It should have been, Minister, fifteen, twenty years ago. And what we are telling you and the proposals we are making are serious. In conclusion, I would like to say, because there have been too many issues lately in the region, at least in the East Attica, and because people are calling me too much and we have read here - Minister, it is not a matter of yours, it is Mr Metarakis - for the Eye. People forgot in the Eye. We're just closing up for two years. The President of the Greek Solution - and I have it here on 13 May - sent a letter to the President of Parliament, Mr President, and to the Prime Minister for a minimum tribute that the Greek Parliament can make, the Greek people to these people who have lost their lives, without being blamed, on the area in Matti. "I propose, Prime Minister..."...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u52	I'm so sorry, Mr. President. "...in my capacity as President of Parliamentary Party, as well as as as Greek and man, to build a monument in honor of the wronged souls from the fire in Matti Attica". I'll give that to the Minutes. I think it is an opportunity for all of us to honour these people who have lost their lives without being blamed for the negligence of the Greek state. I would like to say that there are too many issues that concern people in Matti. The collection of asbestos from houses has not been done yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u54	There has not yet been a demolition of buildings that have been found demolished, no decisions have been made on reconstruction, repairs. People expect housing supporters. I say this at some point. We've been closing for two years. Rehabilitation of roads, road infrastructure, execution of convoys for marking, protection and safety, water catchment areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u55	Mr Colleague, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u56	We have, unfortunately, remained in the signatures of the conventions. That's all. I want to make it clear to every gentleman and every lady of our National Representation, Minister, that the Greek Solution will of course vote, because you still had doubts and asked me before - the President said so, and our special speaker said so - will vote for this bill. He was the first to say about this pipeline. However, if - and I fear to say so - you do not implement the proposals that we have proposed to you, we have told you that this pipeline will not have any luck. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, please for time. Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the ratification of the Transnational Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus, the State of Israel, the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on the transportation of natural gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets through the EastMed pipeline, which was initially signed at a recent visit by the Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu in Athens and a formal tripartite summit. The first time we strongly supported our opposition to EastMed and the fact that an already signed agreement does not change our position today. The issue of green transition and mining has been the foundation of the Mera25 programme from the outset. Our constant attitude is that mining, pipelines and fossil fuels cost only our country, without any benefit to our people. This cost is triple, eco-cost, when our environment is already extremely burdened by human action, economic costs, as only the multinationals will win, while the Greek economy is falling into the technologies of the 20th century, instead of aiming at the 'green' industrial and rural revolution. The cost of geopolitical, as the pipelines and drills in the seas and land create a bright field of glory only for anyone who has to win financially and strategically by increasing tensions in the region. The signature of EastMed himself confirms our position in full. The Government of New Democracy is consciously opting to continue the policy of the government of Mr. Tsipras, binding Greece on the 'Trab-Netanyahu' chariot, which, along with the multinational oil companies, is working systematically with their sole aim of eliminating peace in the Eastern Mediterranean. This is a bond that naturally began with the first memorandum on Prime Minister George Papandreou, turned into a pillar of new national wisdom in the days of the Second Memorandum on the Government of Samaras, followed even more faithfully by the Governments of Tsipras which signed the third and fourth Memorandums respectively and is now continuing by the Government of Mitsotakis, which, with constant pitfall, leads the country to the signature of a fifth - harder all - which will impoverish and destroy Greece even more. Often, however, ladies and gentlemen, it has attempted to present our 'courts' as a counterweight to Turkey. Neither little nor much does EastMed take the form of a super-array, which Greece holds against President Erdogan's claim, while alienating Greece from both the Arab world and the international ecological movement, giving the Turkish president the ground inside and outside Turkey to induce new tensions in the Aegean. Ladies and gentlemen, the Turkish regimes have always chosen to create artificial tensions as a diversion to their internal problems. Erdogan's authoritarian regime has not escaped the same path. As long as the Turkish President considers that a tension or a warm episode will favour him, practically disorientating the citizens of the neighbouring country from their real problems, he will use them both - but no one will! - A duct won't be able to prevent him. At the meeting of the committee responsible, which I attended with great interest, the majority rapporteur noted that Greece's geostrategic position is being upgraded against Turkish provocation and Erdogan's policies. I understand his way of thinking, but I must note and highlight our disagreement, which is not only political, believe me, but also comes from my personal appreciation. As an international expert in the Middle East, I think it will not be able to operate stabilisingly if we take Turkey's political instability and the neighbour's internal problems that are increasing day after day, which are likely to lead the Turkish President to early elections. It remains, of course, to be seen - and here we will be in order to find out and discuss it - which assessment will prove correct in the long term. At the same time, it is surprising and we think it has its own meaning that Italy has not yet signed the Convention. The Greek Parliament is therefore called upon to ratify a transnational agreement, without it being clear what the Italian reservation is about, a country which has taken part in the debates at the outset, nor when the procedure will be concluded on the Italian side. If I'm not mistaken, the Minister told the committee that Italy wanted to keep this margin to sign later. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said since the beginning, we believe that Greece should be removed from the unholy alliance with Israel, Egypt, Trump and the oil companies. At the very first moment, we have opposed the signing of EastMed and we could not do anything different just because today's debate concerns the final ratification of the agreement. For us, Mera25, the original agreement is inextricably linked to today's ratification, and that is why, as our speaker has said, we are from the outset voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, my colleague, for keeping time. The Minister now has the floor for eighteen minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting for a historic agreement on the EastMed pipeline. It is indeed one of the most important agreements not only in the field of energy, but one of the most important international agreements signed by the country in recent years. It is an agreement that strengthens the country in terms of energy and geostrategic. It is first of all an agreement which guarantees the country with regard to energy, more gas sources and more roads and, of course, a 'cohesion' in the energy field. Secondly, this agreement is at the heart of the European Union's own design, and that is why it has joined the so-called 'Projects of Common Interest', namely in the programmes, in the projects of common interest, precisely because the European Union also believes in the obvious, that you should not put all your eggs in the same basket, especially in the energy sector, and that you must have alternatives for times of crisis. Thirdly, it goes without saying that this agreement further strengthens relations between Cyprus and Israel. And I really do ask myself why should we not want - obviously I do not imagine that we want to strengthen our relationship with Cyprus - to strengthen our relations with Israel further? Don't we want friends? We don't want any more friends? Do we get enough of the ones we've got? I don't understand. Fourthly, although it is obviously not against anyone, this agreement is an indirect message to Turkish provocation. Do not forget that Erdogan at the beginning of December directly questioned the right of Cyprus, Israel and Greece to build this pipeline. At the beginning of December, and specifically on 10 December, I had a meeting with my counterpart, Mr Steinic, in Madrid, and after this meeting the proceedings were speeded up and this agreement was finally signed here in Zappeion on 2 January, in the presence of President Anastasiades, Prime Minister Netanyahu and Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is a message from all three countries that we are moving forward in cooperation, which is a cooperation of legitimacy and peace. Turkey should abandon its review and its provocation, which is in harmony with the modern world. It may have something to do with the 18th and 19th centuries, but it has nothing to do with the 21st century. In this context, I would like to point out that Article 10 of the agreement, which refers to the protection of the pipeline both in construction and in operation, is not at all a response to some colleagues who raised this question. It will not be a pipeline which will simply be designed on paper and left to its fate. It is a pipeline that the contracting countries are determined to protect him, with all that that means. And the nomine! Fifthly - and I would like to dwell on this - it is an agreement which has a cross-party consensus. The JRC is across - I expected - the Mera25 for its own reasons is opposite - and I expected this - the Greek Solution, after having kept us in anguish for an hour, finally clarified after an orchestra of criticism that it is in favour of the agreement - to be surprised by all of us, I mean on the basis of the initial positions - while the other three parties are in favour of the agreement, the New Democracy, the SYRIZA and the Change Movement. It is really important that in this country, which we often disagree to disagree, we have managed to agree on this project so many parties, as it is also important that at the signing ceremony beyond the government they were represented, at the invitation of the government and, of course, the ethical rules, both SYRIZA and the Change Movement. I would like to point out once again that this agreement is not my agreement. I was the runner in the last few meters. Yiannis Maniatis started from 2010-2011 and then the government of Samaras, and then Mr. Skourletis and Mr. Stathakis continued. Mr. Maniotis and Mr. Stathakis were in the front row during the signature. I think that this is also a message that needs to be considered and considered in this Chamber, which we sometimes find opportunities to disagree even when we agree, that it is not at all bad for the political system to have such consent. It is good for the level of our democracy and it is also a proper message to the Greek citizens. Sixthly, this agreement is not just a declaratory agreement that has been reached because a political response has to be given to Turkey and others. It is an agreement, which has economic content and is accompanied by a series of moves, which were made shortly after, that is to say, the procedures for authorising this agreement by the Greek Ministry of Development on 3 March 2020. Also, in recent months and in recent days all the procedures needed to prepare the feasibility study, co-financed by the European Commission, are progressing. I underline that. It is not just a vision of some Greek political parties this agreement. It is supported by the European Union. The company "POSEIDON" has made all the necessary moves, the company "POSEDION" has made all the necessary moves. I described them at the committee meeting, there is no need for me to refer back to the specific amounts of payments. Seven, it is important, ladies and gentlemen, because it shows the determination of the Greek Government and the Hellenic Republic, that Greece is the first country to ratify this agreement. It shows our commitment to go ahead with this plan. It shows us how much we really believe in this plan for all the reasons I have explained so far and others that I will explain further. Two more remarks. The first, beyond the wider geostrategic and transnational policies, is about the pipeline and Greece. Provision is made for the landing of the pipeline in Crete. That means two things. It means, firstly, that this pipeline can carry future hydrocarbon deposits to Crete, south of Crete, after the concessions under ExXON MOBIL, TOTAL and ELPE. It also means that this pipeline through Crete will pass through the Peloponnese and Western Greece, covering also an area that so far is not covered in terms of large gas pipelines. Finally, this agreement is positive at economic level because it involves investment, large investment and in Greece too, jobs that do not go beyond us and also entail better competition at the level of natural gas, because the majority of pipelines go through the country through roads, obviously as increased competition is and is better for the consumer whether they are businesses or households. I come now, after describing the positive aspects of this agreement, to respond to the criticism made in different ways. First of all, at national level, foreign policy has been said by some 'what this pipeline offers' - if it does not harm! - what we want to get involved with Israel and get involved with further pipelines." Excuse me. I'm really wondering: What's wrong with another pipeline? We've got the ones we've got, and we've got them. We have the pipeline coming from Russia. Russia is a traditional gas feeder. That's not questionable. We also have Turkey for many years, and now we will have TAP on the same side. Are you against this pipeline, are you surely supportive of having gas from Russia and Turkey and not talking about any other country? How can I interpret it? Why is there a question of everything? It was also said that Germany or Italy was supposed to be against this pipeline and therefore this pipeline will not proceed. I do not believe this at all, but let us assume that Germany and Italy are against this pipeline. What does that mean? Whoever is against us is going to be justified on self-determination and that Greece will stop serving its national interests and national targets? What are these things being said seriously in the Greek Parliament? I'm really wondering. I come to the environmental issue. I will say, first of all, that there is Article 8, which is precisely about protecting the environment, about environmental commitments and about the obligations of all the Contracting countries to protect the environment, so that we do not have consequences, which is not common in such contracts, it is not self-evident, which has happened over the past decades. It is a new conception of all countries, not only Greece, as the environment is obviously on the agenda of all. However, I would like to ask two more questions about the environment and pipelines. All the others who have been conducting gas and gas in recent years and I am referring to European countries - why have you been referring, correctly, to NordStream and Germany and to all the other countries where NordStream is going through - are they not interested in the environment? All these countries, more advanced than us, are waiting for us to give them environmental lessons? Also, because there has been a debate on environmental law once again, we do not want - and rightly so, we are taking the lead in this - lignite and we move on to lignite. We want gas - we say - as is done throughout Europe as a transport fuel. You - some of you - don't want the gas either. Very well. What's left? Renewable energy sources. But, here and in the debate on the environmental law, it has emerged that you do not want renewable energy because you think there is a spatial plan, which is unacceptable and allows renewable energy sources here or there and others. So am I entitled or not to conclude that some of you want only candles? I, as Minister of Energy, must follow this policy, say that I am abandoning everything, even renewable energy sources, and from now on will I share candles, such as the Resurrection, in order to move the national economy? Let us talk more seriously, ladies and gentlemen. Another area of criticism is what was reported in relation to the project's technical and financial aspects. Look, I will not question at all - and I told the committee - that this is a technical project - indeed - because it is an underwater project because it is a long distance, because there are many studies and others. But I do not want to question some of them, firstly, that there is gas. Because that's said there isn't. There's the Leviathan and North Caris and the two in Israel. There is Glaukos in Crete, there is Aphrodite and above all mining continues and there is expected to be much more deposits and stocks. Everyone who deals with this issue knows that. In addition, to those who are questioning this programme technically and economically, I would like to remind you of two things. ENERGEAN, which is a company launched by Greece, but is listed on the London Stock Exchange, decided and stated it on 2 January, when we signed the agreement, that it will give the deposits from North Caris - which is about 2.5 bcm, 1/4 of the pipeline capacity - to this pipeline. He's a private company and he decided. Those who make criticism know their own interests better than private companies, but even more so in this project has an active involvement of the 'EDISON', a large Italian energy company, currently a subsidiary of EDF, which is the largest French energy company. They do not know either, and we do know, on the other hand, about such a big issue. I repeat that I do not underestimate the difficulties, but it is important not to rush all of us to draw such hasty conclusions. I shall now proceed with the matter of Italy. As the convention has come here, it will be ratified by both Israel and Cyprus, with Italy in the title, because Italy has negotiated this agreement and negotiated not only with SYRIZA, but also with us. Until last December, we were talking with the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs about specific wordings of this agreement, which is being promoted here by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Legal Service, because this is how it is done in these cases. On this occasion I would like to say a great deal of thanks to both the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the services of the Ministry of Environment and Energy for their work. Now what Italy will do is hers. There was this letter, to which you have all referred, of the Italian Minister for Development, who is also responsible for energy issues, who decided on his own to send it. Italy will take its decisions whenever it thinks they are. I repeat that I believe that the Italian decisions will be positive. I repeat, however, that it is not only Italy in planning the three countries that went to Zappeion in this agreement. It's Egypt in terms of sources. We have already had an incident with the Egyptian Minister - I do not reveal anything new, it is something that has been made public - but also with regard to the ending of the pipeline, it will obviously be possible to consider all the possible things, because there is a market in central Europe and not just. The United States of America was supposed to be interested in SYRIZA, but they stopped interested in New Democracy. Maybe because you guys are - I don't know - more American friends. I'm saying that by charming, so we don't have any controversy on this. In any case, I tell you that they were equally interested in your times and times. In the summer, when we had the meeting here, "3 and 1", Greece, Cyprus, Israel and the United States, the American side expressed its support for this pipeline and possibly in the next few days - I don't know, we expected the formation of the government in Israel - there will be a new meeting between these four countries, Greece, Cyprus, Israel and the United States of America, which shows that we are strategic partners and we are working very closely together. I would like to say three things out of material, because they have been noted by colleagues. The first is a criticism made by Mr Arsenis to me, which I have to say has surprised me. I think my reaction from the seat showed how I was placed in criticism, but for the Minutes I just want to say that I am Kostis Hadjidakis, don't forget who I am. I've never blamed anyone in my life for being a traitor. It is not my style, I have not learned to speak like this, and obviously I could not blame environmental organisations for treason. How did you get through your mind? I said that if we stopped mining at this stage, protesters would come out that they would say we were treasoning. I have made a political thought which I am entitled to do and which I think is square. From that point on, I do not know where you imagined that I - because you also said this position - asked for the arrest of those protesters outside the House. First, I never heard anyone arrested. Besides, I would never ask for anyone to be arrested. Let's talk to this world, not our fantasy. I stop here because I don't want to be insulting, as you understand. I come to the criticism made by SYRIZA on the subject of EDPS. What are we doing in the HR? I'll say it again for those who didn't hear it. It is the company for the extraction of hydrocarbons in which due to the privatization of the infrastructure and the DEPA of Commerce, it leaves the part of the International Projects, is seconded and merged into the ESA. SYRIZA says it's unacceptable because he's a shareholder and ELPE. ELPE is indeed a shareholder throughout the DEPA, and therefore also in the International PPC, but I have made it clear to the committee from that position that the government intends to take over the share of ELPE in international projects, so there will be only the public. Now, be careful, SYRIZA, who criticizes us for doing this and in the end will only the public in international projects, what has he done? SYRIZA would privatise the infrastructure PPA by 14%. It would also be the DPAF of Internationals in planning SYRIZA, that is, it would not leave, it would be in the infrastructure DPA. What shareholder form would DETAILS have of designing SYRIZA? It would be ELPE 35% - there they were not bothering you - a private person by 14% and the public by 51%. So we in the international projects say that the public is predicting 100%, while you were saying 51%, with the ELPA 35% and the private 14%. It is probably because of your criticism and I think it would be advisable not to repeat it because it is exposing you. I would also like to make another comment on the TEN and its programmes, namely the extension of gas pipelines across the country, because there has been a discussion over the past few days. How has the matter come about? There was an old 2011 law, which provided that if an eighteen months had elapsed in relation to the process of building some networks, then RAE is entitled to come and remove the network from the manufacturer. We when we took over we found a situation that was really dramatic in this design. The TEN administration on SYRIZA - I think it would be no exaggeration to say - was an example to avoid. Nothing was planned. The new administration tried to run and has indeed run as much as it could, at least the most mature, because in Macedonia, for example, they were more mature in the Peloponnese they had left completely alone in their luck. He ran as much as he could, but the Energy Regulatory Authority - which has not been appointed by us, has been appointed by the previous government - and by depleting its rigour, because the timeframe was nineteen months from eighteen in Veria and the Yanicha, he said that the TEN should stop these projects. We as a Ministry encouraged the TEN not to accept this decision and to use all the legal tools at its disposal. And he'll do it! I also make it clear that both with regard to northern Greece - the whole of Northern Greece and even more with regard to the two cities where noise occurs, Veroia and Giannitsa - but both in relation to the Peloponnese, starting from Megalopolis, which we have the subject of remote heating, and going to the other cities of the Peloponnese, the government is willing to expand the gas network as quickly as possible. It's over and over! I would like to close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that we in the government really are very pleased that today the Greek Parliament in a consensual climate ratifys this agreement. This agreement on EastMed complements our energy strategy, complements the steps taken in recent years and in recent months. I said about the pipeline coming from Russia. I talked about the pipeline from Turkey, Azerbaijan and TAP that we are a hundred percent ready to put him into operation in Greece. And that's where we're waiting for Italy for technical reasons, so TAP can move on. I can add that in recent months, the projects of Rethyssas have gone ahead by further upgrading the energy network, for example in the work that had already been done by our predecessors. Also, in recent months, the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline which also strengthens the country's strategic position, the IGB pipeline and the gas regasification project, the FSRU station, as called in the technical language, in Alexandroupolis. All this, the pipeline from Russia, TAP, IGB, FSRU, Revitousa and now EastMed are making Greece a very important player in gas and, more generally, in energy policy in the wider region. There's an energy crossroads in the country. I think that those who vote for this agreement must be proud because they strengthen not only Greece's energy and economic position but also our country's international political position. We continue with the same determination ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u61	The gas in the Peloponnese will be on Monday when we have a question, not to mention it now. We have issues in Arcadia and the Peloponnese. The Undersecretary will be here to answer us. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, surely the transnational agreement between Greece, Cyprus, Israel, Italy on the transfer of gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to Europe is an agreement of particular and strategic importance in terms of its geopolitical dimension and in terms of its energy, economic and development dimension. It was stressed in many respects by our rapporteur, Mrs Kafantaris, and by Mr Katrugalos as Foreign Minister of the SYRIZA Government, that the agreement we are debating today is the result of a decade of cross-party political and diplomatic efforts by all governments over the years. At the same time, however, it is certain - and this cannot be disputed - that since 2013 when the EastMed pipeline was designated by the European Union, within the framework of its energy policy, as a project of common interest, the diplomatic and political dynamics have actually been given since 2016 in order to reach the outcome of the final agreement, because it was not all of it. It wasn't all easy. A special mention was made by Giorgos Katrugalos before. Specific diplomatic efforts had to be developed in a sense of overall and multidimensional foreign and energy policy, which the SYRIZA Government had, of multilateral cooperation and alliances, always - and I would stress this - within the logic of not exclusion or aggression - our country is always a country in favour of peace, cooperation and international law, but stability, security, cooperation and common prosperity. That is what the Minister said - and this is a point to which I will agree with him - that the agreement does not come to rule out nor is it against a country equal - and it does not even come to an open standstill, beyond the signature we all hope that there will be from Italy - I will come back to it - but, of course, Egypt and other potential countries - partner countries in the future. It is important to mention - now that we are discussing a strategic agreement - that, when all these debates began and when we talk about a multi-dimensional foreign policy, it has of course also to do with the wider area of the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East. It was particularly important that January 2019 in Egypt, when it became the natural gas forum, participated in addition to Israel and Palestine. It is a point that we should highlight why we as a party have a particular sensitivity in terms of the issues of the Palestinian people and their rights. From there on, it is also clear - and we must stress this - that the logic of the strategic partner with the United States, which is something that gives more weight and perspective to this agreement, is once again a multi-dimensional policy concept, not one-sided and one-dimensional, that comes to support Greece in strengthening the position of geopolitically. It comes to strengthen the Republic of Cyprus in its sovereign rights in the EEZ. It is also an agreement that highlights our country, within the overall energy planning and other international projects that are either in progress or are planned, in a transit trade hub, an energy portal for Europe. So these are data. Here I would like to make some points to the Minister, because it is another thing to agree on the strategic importance, and it is another thing that is the prospect, how it is ensured, what action is taken by the government and within what philosophy and strategy. This is where we need clarifications, answers and a briefing of the House. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Minister, I have heard you very carefully. I would like to make four specific points. The first point to be made concerns Italy. You told us that in a way we underestimate today's agreement if we mention the Italian issue. On the contrary! We expect you - well, of course - and from the government to tell us what analysis it is doing. What you told us from the Step forward that 'it's all right, it's irrelevant whether or not Italy signs. In any case, the work is the same dynamic as the project is not exactly like that. You know very well - and I agree with you - that Italy negotiated its signature with the SYRIZA Government and with yours until December. However, Italy obviously has an ambiguous geopolitical attitude right now after developments in Libya and the psalmist - a memorandum from Turkey and Libya. And of course, what George Katrugalos said, which I do not know if you have more information - but I do not think it is conspiracy - that is, when one exercises an active policy on foreign policy and energy, one must take into account all the risks and problems. Mr. Katrugalos said that there is this update of the Italian company's contacts with the Turkish company. Italy is therefore crucial in terms of the viability, prospects and financing of the project. So we would like a clearer answer here and at least tell us how you are moving. After all, we don't do a trial of intent here. In principle, of course, we agree and will vote for the agreement. We are, however, concerned about how you, in terms of Italy, are moving on with what arguments and what instruments you are using for a project that, after all, is also European. The second relates to the Department of International Works and the Department of International Works. Minister, this is not a matter, a small case, as you tried to show that we did not understand well. You said features that we were confused. This is clearly another strategy and philosophy in terms of energy policy. We believe that in strategic sectors of the economy and energy there needs to be the presence, control and monitoring of the public. You say that by removing the Service of International Works and incorporating it into the EDPS, the Public Company of Hydrocarbons, you ensure it. But it's a different reading, Minister. Here we are dealing with a rough solution that you have found by uniting disparate things in reality - we have also said the rapporteur, Mrs Kafantaris - where both administrative competence and monitoring are not guaranteed, as well as funding is not guaranteed, because, of course, there was a philosophy that the PPA of Infrastructure should remain under the majority control of the public, not just for this agreement and international projects, but for the overall as far as gas infrastructure is concerned. Unfortunately, here your neoliberal obsession with the privatisation of IPTO and the deterioration of PPC prevailed. Of course, this move of the amendment to international projects where you were 'done', and you had to take care of them somewhere by finding this necessary solution, without a specific study, because you want to serve the rapid privatisation of the infrastructure project. The side-effects already existing for both Macedonia and the Peloponnese have also been mentioned. I am sure that the good colleague, Mr Papaliou, who succeeds me in the Stepma, will have much to say about his own region. So, here is the second issue, how this Department of International Works will operate and how the funding provided through the resources provided by the Infrastructure Agency will be guaranteed. Thirdly, it is the strategic position of the United States in terms of this agreement. You are right to say, Minister, that there has also been a statement on this. However, what has certainly not been all this time on your part is an active foreign policy so that this statement is not just formal, diplomatic, but is active support. As far as the prospect, financing and guaranteeing of this particular project is concerned, we consider it to be of strategic importance for our country and for the region, but as a whole, an aggression that has been growing in Turkey over the last few years, where we see there being halves and not the corresponding support or commitment of positions. Because here we have to say that in addition to the reference made by my colleague, Mr Katrugalos, earlier on the summit - which was held in March 2019 - and the declaration he came out, the joint statement that is particularly important was, of course, the result of certain diplomatic active initiatives that the "EastMed Act" bill presented in May 2019 in the Senate also existed in the final draft, as the law was finally passed by the Senate in December. It is important, however, that, as of May 2019, specific formalities were recorded, in respect of the breaches of Greece's airspace, clean formalities and the sovereign rights of Cyprus with regard to the EEZ. There is therefore an issue that goes beyond the formal statements on what you are doing, because in Mr Mitsotakis' meeting with Mr Trump there has been no specific reference nor has we had any tangible results on the prospect of this work. So we're waiting from there for your position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close with a third point, which is general. We are at a time when the neoliberal record has been hurt multiplely. The pandemic crisis all over the world restores the need for public policies, public interventions by the state, not only as a regulator but also as part of a market economy with rules on development, social cohesion, solidarity and much more, of course, crucial strategic issues such as energy policy. There we believe that unfortunately, in the face of this crisis that our country is going through in the economic and social context, you have shown a great deal of delay, atmosphere, but also in this particular case ideological obsession, as has been seen in the recent bill of euphemism for the environment, which was of course a blow. Your choices in terms of the environment and the environment, but above all in order to be relevant to the issue that we are discussing, the strategic public bodies for the exercise and planning of energy policy, are totally untimely and should be the first to review them at this juncture. So we agree. We believe it is a strategic agreement. From there on, however, we are monitoring and judging you with regard to the steps towards sustainability, financing, implementation and, above all, safeguarding our national interests as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u63	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like us to organize the debate a little bit. You know that there are seven speakers left on the list. All the Members of Parliament have said that they wish to speak. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has already spoken and there are five Members of Parliament and seven speakers. I propose that we go alternately, a speaker, a parliamentary representative, so that colleagues are not wronged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u65	I wasn't here, but that doesn't matter. On the basis of the statement made by the parliamentary representatives, after Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, it was you, Mr Loverdos. I simply propose that the Members who are on the list should not be wronged, so that we can go with this system. One speaker, one parliamentarian. If you don't mind. If you have any objections again and you insist...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u66	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, since we are in the organization of the debate and because the Special Parliamentary Committee meets at 3 p.m., the sitting must begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u70	Is this about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u71	Yeah, for me. If we agree between Parliamentary representatives that a fellow speaker should be involved, I would ask if the colleague from New Democracy agrees with me, instead of the colleague speaking from New Democracy, that I speak as a parliamentary representative so that I can be in committee in good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u72	Do you want to arrange it right now or do you want to see it in the course of the conversation?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u73	That's what I'm saying, because we're at the stage of the organization. I'll talk to my colleague. I'd just beg to precede.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u74	Well, you'll talk before 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u75	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u76	Let's call Mr. Stamenitis in Stepma from New Democracy. Then there is Mr Loverdos, a parliamentary representative, and we continue with a speaker, a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy with which the intergovernmental agreement is ratified between the Republic of Cyprus, the State of Israel, the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on a pipeline which transfers natural gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets. The conclusion of this agreement between Greece, Cyprus and Israel at first stage in January 2020 and its current ratification by the Greek Parliament substantially seals the key role that Greece and Cyprus play in the Energy Charter of Europe. The deposits of the Eastern Mediterranean will be channelled to Europe through the two countries, thus changing the balances prevailing in the gas market, breaking monopolies and reducing dependence. This should be considered very well by those who do not agree with the ratification of this agreement. This is an international agreement in the energy sector, which will bring about great changes in the current situation in the gas sector in both Greece and Europe. For our country the benefits are multiple at both economic and commercial level and at political and strategic level. In the economic part, the more sources you have for supplying natural gas, the greater possibilities you have about the price you buy. This means, in practical terms, that we are given the opportunity, following the construction of the pipeline, to achieve better prices for Greek consumers. As you know, Greece has the highest prices in Europe. In addition, our country will also benefit from the production, transportation and distribution of natural gas, while direct and indirect economic effects are expected to be created during the construction and operation of the project. At the same time, it will be possible for the regions of our country which do not have gas to connect with them, such as Crete, the Peloponnese or western Macedonia and western Greece. In fact, in Crete it can also act vice versa, so that this pipeline can participate in the deposits that may come out of the area. Therefore, there are many environmental benefits that arise for our country beyond the economic and commercial benefits. Since most regions will be able to connect to the natural gas network, a favourable framework is created for the gradual transition from fossil fuels, such as oil, to renewable energy produced from the transition fuel, to natural gas, which, although fossil fuel, has a very small environmental footprint. At this point I would like to say that we are absolutely satisfied with the Minister's commitment to the case with RAE, where it is a choice for the government and the TEN to proceed immediately with these links in central Macedonia, Giannitsa and Veria. In fact, I would say that I confirm that all the time that the previous administration was, there was nothing at all. In fact, while there was agreement with the municipality and other bodies, legislative arrangements were in place in May 2019 that were actually causing a problem for this development. It is therefore very important for our region, and I think I am expressing the citizens of Pella absolutely, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, following the construction of the TAP pipeline, and indeed an agreement which has been reached within a year, with the agreement on the EastMed pipeline, is further strengthening its role as a gateway to Europe and at the same time taking an additional important step towards the front of energy. In other words, our country is developing into a guarantee force of European energy security. And as I said, the conclusion of the agreement brings together a number of benefits that can not only be in the economic or commercial part, but are spread over a wider range with geostrategic and diplomatic characteristics, our energy role in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean and Europe, while strengthening and deepening our cooperation with Israel. In fact, as was widely expressed at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade, EastMed is the culmination of the strategic approach of Greece and Cyprus with Israel, which is being extended to critical areas such as energy. In this light, the pipeline agreement also gives an immediate response to Turkish reformism and the challenges of the Turkish President. This agreement, however, is very important to our country. Finally, I would like to say that it is very important that this agreement also gives a political consensus and a follow-up. In the case of EastMed reaching the agreement is a product of procedures that goes well back. Since 2010, our country has indeed been oriented towards this agreement or this relationship. But the strengthening of relations with Israel was strengthened in 2013 by the Samara government, and indeed we must say that SYRIZA also walked on the road what had been opened by the previous ones. It is extremely positive that this draft law also goes through by a broader majority. The Minister said in committee that he runs the last steps of this route himself, but it is worth saying that today's government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis very quickly have shown that they are aiming to strengthen our country's role on the international stage. This is a position that the New Democracy Party supports over time. Greece aims to implement policies that strengthen peace and geopolitical stability in the Eastern Mediterranean region, and this agreement makes a major contribution in this direction. The Prime Minister also stressed it in January that this is a strong demonstration of the Member States' practical intention to deal with energy as a link between the peoples and not as a basis for disagreements and conflicts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u78	Thank you. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a reference to today's national celebration of the integration of Thrace into our national trunk. We have been honouring the hundreds of years since the release of Thrace today. I want to read some of the greetings of the President of the Republic that I found very remarkable. He says: "The sites of the border are not forgotten. They're not places of the past, they're opportunities for the future. Filling a hundred years from the liberation of Alexandroupolis and Komotini is a very important anniversary for Thrace. We always look forward to such anniversaries." With the Congress, ladies and gentlemen, Irene of Paris, which began in January 1919 and was completed in January of the following year, 1920, Western Thrace was placed under inter-according command and then the San Remo Treaty, in 1920, was incorporated into our national body. We say Thrace, reporting to Alexandroupolis or Komotini, Xanthi was ahead. As a movement of Change, we pay tribute to this place, to the place where it opened and embraced to accept the refugees of destruction and to this day with its multiculturality gives a stigma and example of harmonious coexistence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a reference to something I remember when we talk about EastMed. It is about 2010, we are in the Prime Minister's office here in the House, Mr Papandreou, then, and we are meeting a very small group of ministers on matters of natural memory and the crisis at that time. The Undersecretary at that time, Yiannis Maniatis, who, while the subject of the debate is too heavy, is interrupted to say something and go away, and presents us on a map of the opportunities that the country has in relation to its mineral wealth. The agenda of this time was something strange, paradoxical and foreign to heavy - I repeat - our calendar. One year after we voted for Law 4001/2011, where in Article 156 we recorded our sovereign rights, based on the average line of equal distance as the basis of delimitation in the maritime zones of southern Crete and Ionian. We did not keep this provision to the limits of the Greek legal order, we announced it to the United Nations. In other words, our movement did not only have internal logic, it also had a reasonable externality, within the framework of international law and in accordance with its rules. But already, ladies and gentlemen, we were moving towards a political turn, a political shift relating to our relationship with Israel. An opening of geopolitical, an opening that is decisive for the future of Greece, an opening with a deep political, strategic, too great, as it turns out. Because we are in 2020 and in these tracks we walk and we do well. Our government, of course, did not forget and did not forget the issue of Palestine. He did not forget and he did not forget the decisions of the United Nations on the two-state solution. We were with Mrs. Gennimata when Mrs. Gennimata met the President of Palestine, Mahmoud Abbas, in 2016, and I remember telling him about this shift in Greece and telling us that "is a good turn, because you can help the Palestinian people's case." This debate, not in detail, but in its basic respect, took place only yesterday at the National Foreign Policy Council. I do not want to be paradoxical about the criticism I am making, but I cannot forget Mr Tsipras denounce this opening to Israel. In fact, he's interviewed Mr. Traga, whom I have recently interviewed. On one occasion I saw it, and I remembered the vulture with which it was dealt with by today's Civic Opposition that opening of the country, as well as in much lower tones I remember his objection to EastMed. I did not know, ladies and gentlemen, the contribution of Giannis Maniatis, until I saw a film from the news of the time, where I saw journalists recording his own contribution to the arrest of this plan. Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis, you did very well to invite both Mr. Manatis and Mr. Skourletis and Mr. Stathakis to the relevant ceremony. To say today how much the recession will be and to rejoice if it is great, while in the opposition, it is wrongly criminal. I take it as a negative example of an awkward and awkward opposition, to say that saying what Italy is going to do is right if we formulate it as Mr Gocas. This question is addressed to you. There's a difficulty. Alas, if the opposition invests in the difficulties, and if my speech here today was a cause for the recording of difficulties. On the contrary, it is an approval. I am very pleased that four parties in the Greek Parliament are going together. But the question stands, Minister: what about the Italians? You might want to look after yourself. I understand that. However, it would be a good thing to have a word more, if you wish, about the future that we can expect of this four effort, in any case, which has been involved in the European Union, has been recorded, as our rapporteur, Mr Gocas, has rightly said, and you too, in the interesting programmes within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Solution, and if it is a little bit of a final contribution to the needs of the European Union, it is another way, another alternative. The size of the quantity does not mean that this solution, this perspective, is insignificant and must be rejected. You record the data and say "so much we expect to have in relation to the overall need is small". If you look at it, however, as another corridor, one more source is positive - I would say, absolutely positive - the prospect. And, of course, of what can benefit from regions of the country, such as the Peloponnese, such as Crete, such as Epirus or Western Greece in general, I think that only good can be seen. So the speech time cannot be negative and we can end up positive. We're starting to record the positives, if we agree. Because if we disagree, like the JRC and Mera25, it's another thing. If we agree, that also applies to us in political terms. Minister, in this context, we want an update on Italy, so that we can see whether the timetables we have in mind are correct. I would like to close with a reference to a more general issue, which relates to the demarcation of maritime zones, which is of great concern to us as a Change Movement, a patriotic party, which is thinking a little further than developments in our external affairs. Because we have the experience, and we have the patriotic DNA, from which none of us wants to send out our political space. We want to say that we defeated Erdogan as a country in Evros. It's a truth. Erdogan lost in Syria, lost Evros. And as we agree with the political parties, and this agreement was expressed at the National Foreign Policy Council yesterday, the situation has to present a Erdogan affected, a Erdogan who is 'freaking' - apologies for the verb - to create an incident or conflict. We have many problems with Turkey after Evros, and in the midst of pandemic, violations, violations and drilling, as the Turks sincerely say, I note and underline. Everything they do has been told. They don't surprise us. And the immigrants had said and tried. They're bragging that they crossed the Evros border a hundred and fifty thousand. So they're lying about their internal consumption. They're screwed there. They were defeated there. Both the drilling in Cyprus and the drilling in the maritime areas where we exercise our sovereign rights. Everything has been said. We've been having a deterioration lately. We didn't have excesses over Thrace. I was informed that one had happened twenty-six or twenty-seven years ago. They don't do that often. But they did now. So, ladies and gentlemen, we must bear in mind that 2020 will not only concern us because of pandemic, but will also concern us in our foreign policy issues, which are issues of a combination of foreign and defence policy, which should not be underestimated. We should not underestimate them, because the main problem right now has a sanitary text and therefore, because of the lockdown we have had for a long time and yet to some extent, our economy is facing a recession of a great scale. We must not forget the common denominator of our existence, which is foreign policy and defence issues. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, to close, needs more than an analysis of its problems in foreign policy, and especially in Greek-Turkish. As I said yesterday, following the meeting of the National Council, the recording of problems and their analysis do not constitute a government policy. Saying - wonderful - what problem you have, how difficult it is and what elements it is, is not a government policy. It is a scientific, political analysis, whatever you want, but not a government policy. A clear government policy on this issue is also necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u80	Mr Papaliou George has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the intergovernmental agreement between Israel - Cyprus - Greece and Italy - which is absent, participating and non-participating, for the transport of natural gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to Europe is important because it makes Greece an energy hub in the Eastern Mediterranean, including it in the pipeline network and therefore in the region. This is a geostrategic option. The government of SYRIZA, in the context of its foreign policy, took initiatives aimed at changing geopolitical correlations in areas related to the country, in this case in the Eastern Mediterranean, to form strong alliances, to promote partnerships to strengthen peace and, of course, to the economic benefits which, in the context of this agreement, must be identified and specified, and ultimately to strengthen the role of Greece. In particular, Cairo's natural gas forum, in which in addition to Israel participated Palestine, the tripartite together with Cyprus and Egypt, as well as Jordan, the initiative of leaders in the Balkans, the Ambassadors' Agreement, the cooperation with the leaders of the Mediterranean South are indicative initiatives that highlighted Greece's role through active movements of Greek foreign policy. The initiative for the tripartite cooperation of Greece - Cyprus - Israel promoted by the SYRIZA government resulted, among other things, in the intergovernmental agreement being ratified. At the same time, for the purpose of safeguarding our country as an energy and transit commercial hub in the wider region, in Southeast Europe and in the Eastern Mediterranean, other projects such as TAP, IGB, FSRU Alexandroupolis, upgraded Revithoussa, etc. were promoted. Based on the policy of the SYRIZA Government to launch the country's transition to the era of renewable energy, natural gas will be a transitional fuel. In this context, important initiatives were the extension of the natural gas distribution network and, of course, the legislative safeguarding of the strong infrastructures that are controlled by the public, with the result that international projects can be financed. Another serious dimension, in addition to EastMed's geostrategic and geopolitical, is linked to tackling the Turkish demand for a decisive role in the energy designs of the wider region and bypassing the EEZ of Cyprus and Greece through the signing of the illegal Turkey- Libyan Pact. These parameters, regardless of the reception received by powerful stakeholders, may further complicate the claims and initiatives for the exploitation of the region's energy deposits. Thus, through EastMed, which is linked to this grid of claims and initiatives, the parameter of Greece's presence in disputed maritime areas by Turkey is also apparent and I am therefore in the defence of national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, one of the first acts of the New Democracy Government was the adoption of a law on the sale of the entire percentage of the public in natural gas infrastructures, in contrast to the policy of the SYRIZA Government maintaining the majority share of the public with the result that, although the sale promoted by New Democracy is complete, the creation of a private monopoly in the development of the natural gas network. This government option has begun to have adverse consequences, such as the termination by decision of the RAE of the project of gas distribution networks in the Peloponnese from the programming of the TENs. This makes it easier for the private ‘investor’ to receive the ‘clean’ TEN itself and not to deal with projects having a development and social dimension. This is because it is obvious that the private ‘investor’ does not move on the basis of development and social criteria. So any programming on his part, in this case whether to extend the gas network to our country and the Peloponnese, will be based on profit. This will also cost end-users greater costs. The RAE's decision was therefore not lightning. Thus, since the programming of the TENA, the cities of the Peloponnese, including Corinth, Argos, Nafplio, Tripoli, Sparta and Kalamata, are not included in the distribution of natural gas. The extension of the natural gas network concerned the construction of a network of some 60% of the road network of these cities, as well as three and a half thousand connections. The distribution network of these cities would be supplied by the national gas system with zero connection charges and low use costs for domestic and professional consumers. On the basis of the RAE’s decision, the above design and project is cancelled, as the TEN is expected to be integrated into the privately-owned infrastructure network that will now operate as a private monopoly. Since, therefore, the Peloponnese as a whole is affected by this policy and a comparative means of development and daily living of its inhabitants is being removed, the provision of natural gas, covering households, businesses, BIP, health and education structures, is necessary to ensure that the project is reintegrated into the project. Unfortunately, with the monopoly ownership of IPDP and with the completion of projects this development plan is affected and the national interest is not served. The declared will by the Minister does not replace the will of the IPCC's private property. And one last thing. The ratification of this Agreement is a step. However, further steps are needed, such as the pursuit of Italy's active involvement, the Parliamentary Representative and the SYRIZA rapporteur have been mentioned, because without this work there can be no work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u82	Finish it, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. Furthermore, it is necessary to impose European sanctions against Turkey for illegal actions within the area included in the illegal Turkey - Libyan Agreement, and of course, to ensure that difficulties will not be encountered from the point of view of the implementation of the project, following the law on privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen, the long-term effort that has been made can produce positive results. But the issues and challenges remain open and they must be dealt with effectively by the government. And one final comment. The reference made by the rapporteur to foreign interests by those who disagree with this convention is unacceptable and refers to other dark times. Unfortunately, the New Democracy seems to continue to be dealing with the invoking of 'internal enemies', which has further unequivocally negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u84	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Ioannis Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, it was my turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now a hundred years since Thrace was incorporated into our national trunk. I would like to say two things before my speech. The first is that the Greek Government defends and will continue to defend itself with determination, as it recently did in Evros, our territorial integrity in Thrace and wherever it needs, while defending our national sovereign rights. The second thing I would like to say is that Thrace, this part of the Greek land, is a proof of the peaceful and harmonious coexistence of citizens with different religions - Christians and Muslims - and proves that the Greek Government fully respects the individual rights and religious freedoms of all citizens. With regard to the bill, the overwhelming majority of Members agree, as shown by the speeches by colleagues, that the signing of the transnational agreement on the EastMed pipeline by Greece, Cyprus and Israel, with the partnership of Italy, opened a new chapter in the Energy Charter of the entire South-East Mediterranean. The pipeline connects the deposits of the Mediterranean gas to the European market and opens new routes of cooperation in the wider region. The benefits of this cooperation for our country are numerous and important. Already at the time of the signing of the Convention, the Greek Government stressed that a message of determination to Turkey, which had - I would remind you - called into question the ability and the right of the three countries to cooperate and deal with the common future. Furthermore, this convention that we are currently dominating is fully in line with the planning of the European Union for multiple sources and routes of gas to European countries. It also strengthens the strategic relationship between the partner countries - Greece, Cyprus and Israel - which is particularly important, especially given the latest developments in the wider region. With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, a new geostrategic balance is being established in the South-East Mediterranean. It is, of course, true that the agreement on the pipeline has been prepared for seven, eight years and by different governments and all - the governments, but also the relevant ministers, who have handled this issue - have contributed to reaching the signing and today of the agreement. Of course, the final step has been taken by the present government, which also sets its seal. The agreement instigates, as I said, a new era between the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean era of prosperity and coexistence of the peoples of the region. The ratification of the agreement will help to highlight our country as a pillar of stability and security. It will also contribute to the upgrading of its energy role, as well as to the strengthening of our strategic alliances and the attraction of foreign investments. The pipeline that is to be built is an extensive and complex project that can channel natural gas from the deposits of Israel and Cyprus into the European market, but also exploits deposits that exist in other areas, such as the deposits in the Egyptian region, perhaps also in our country. In other words, there is an increase in the capacity of the project on Greek territory where stocks of natural gas are discovered in our region. Also, the transit of the pipeline, as the Minister pointed out, from areas such as Crete, Epirus, Peloponnese regions, which are not covered by the natural gas networks, will give an answer to a long and fair request from their inhabitants. At the same time, the project will reduce Europe's energy dependence by Russia, but it will also redefine Turkey's role as a country of privilege for crossing all energy pipelines. Its proper economic exploitation, given the large amount of gas it will carry and the extensive market it intends to market, will help supply European countries with gas and so remove them from the oil monopolies. It is estimated - it has also been mentioned by the opposition - that the pipeline will cover a very important part of the European market in natural gas. These estimates, of course, need to be assessed today in the light of the international circumstances created by the urgent need to tackle the coronary pandemic, which is important because of the pandemic of falling oil prices affecting the mining of hydrocarbons and the European green agreement, by establishing natural gas as a transport fuel in the next decade. In the light of these circumstances and data, the Government is further called upon to negotiate, safeguard and strengthen the geopolitical benefits of the pipeline. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into technical issues which have been presented by both the majority rapporteur and the Minister. I only say that the framework is created that will enable the immediate implementation of the project and clear regulatory and licensing regulations are provided for. Besides, the construction of the pipeline has a record run through the licensing process by the Ministry of Development and Investment. The project promoter, the POSEIDON S.A. consortium, has already received EUR 13.8 million from the total of 34.5 million committed by the European Union to financing the project feasibility study, totalling EUR 69 million. Very soon, as the main shareholder of the above entity, PPA has committed the necessary funds corresponding to its ratio to the financing of the same study of EUR 16 million. Furthermore, the draft law introduces, in Article 8, a strict framework of safety rules throughout the project construction, maintenance and operation process. They are also provided for in the framework of international cooperation between the three countries signatory to this Convention and the United States of America, emergency plans in the event of an accident. Incidentally, and because we have a memory and perception in this Chamber, and in order to enjoy the impressions that have been made on the part of the counterpopulation that the United States of America has expressed itself against the pipeline, I would remind you of the statement by both the American Ambassador in our country and the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have welcomed and, indeed, strongly, energy cooperation between Greece, Cyprus and Israel in the Eastern Mediterranean. Italy also expressed full support for the work of European projects of common interest. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it is recalled to the representatives of the Opposition who expressed reservations that in Turkey the signing of the Quartet Agreement was accepted with headline titles, such as: "The alliance of evil was united", "Provocacia in the Eastern Mediterranean", "Third move against Turkey". In other words, this great project is treated as a major threat by the neighbours and eminents of the "blue country". I shall also refer to a current development. Today, a large Turkish newspaper states that Israel and Italy were not convinced to sign the joint declaration, taking part in the anti-Turkish front, and this is a sign that the "theatre" with the EastMed pipeline was finished. That is to say, today that we are ratifying the agreement, in Turkey there are these publications. And they didn't just stay there. In Ankara, sources of the Turkish government say Israel is ready to sign a maritime jurisdiction agreement with Turkey. These publications provoked the Israeli Embassy's reaction to Turkey, which, with today's 'insurance', says: 'In reply to a number of unfounded publications about Israel's intention to sign a maritime jurisdiction agreement with Turkey, we would like to point out that these reports are simply claims that do not correspond to reality'. So you understand how much ratification and cooperation at the level and in geopolitical and energy levels with the Mediterranean countries, which sign up to the EastMed agreement, is bothering the neighbouring country. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of the ruthless attempt to degrade this agreement, we should highlight the positive ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. I'll be in my time. I believe that positive ones prevail and that is too much. That is why I call on all sides to sign the necessary national and transnational investment, which will create, directly and indirectly, significant economic growth in our country and a number of jobs, both in construction and in operation. EastMed's environmental footprint will be very strong, as, as mentioned above, it serves the central aim of preventing further environmental pollution by reducing emissions of pollutants and replacing oil as fuel. Finally, it solves the problem of accessing large areas of the country in the gas deposits, covering all our needs and helping to ensure free competition in this market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u87	Mr Constantopoulos Dimitrios has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Greek Parliament is asked today to ratify the EastMed gas pipeline. You bring, Minister, to the vote a bill on the Quadrant Agreement on EastMed gas treatment between Israel, Cyprus, Italy and our country, I would say, of great geopolitical importance, which brings the seal of the Government of PASOK 2009-2011, the Government of George Papandreou. For all of us, and in particular for the Change Movement, PASOK, I would say is a vindication of today's bill. In fact, it comes to my reminder that we were planning the first steps in the implementation of this work and we had SYRIZA and, indeed, SYRIZA swinging our fingers. Let me remind you that at that time SYRIZA was talking about a project that was destructive to national interests. He was talking about smuggling public money, and I remember, in fact, fighting, consuming, threatening even the PPAs so that he would not commission studies. All this, of course, until it became a government, because when it became a government in 2015-2019, it changed its minds and they changed its minds and even signed the transnational agreement. This for us in the Change Movement is a moral restoration, that the pipeline, our proposal, our design then found acceptance by the then government of SYRIZA. And, of course, today, dear Minister, the New Democracy Government adopts and implements our proposal at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, the EastMed pipeline is part of the then-government PASOK, a vision, Minister, which we can see today you are coming and hugging it. To say, in fact, here it is a pity that he inspired it, the designer of this project, Yiannis Maniotis, today is missing. It could be with the contents of his speech to show it, because I know very well that it was his vision too. It was a vision and a project that the whole of Greece and himself had accepted. What did he dream of? Greece is a Eastern Mediterranean energy hub. Let me remind you that Greece, for the first time with Article 156 of Law 4001/2011, has incorporated the national strategy into national law, demarcating the national EEZ and, indeed, demarcating the Greek EEZ strategy, an article that has been used several times in the private communications of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the UN, in cases of Turkey's violation of the Law of the Sea. I should also like to remind you of the fact that the government in 2009-2011, which was so rampantly fought, created the Social Solidarity Fund, namely the establishment of a fund for the creation of a fund for the financing of pension schemes for social security institutions, but above all a fund for ensuring the pensions of young generations from public revenues from the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons. I would remind you that the exploitation of hydrocarbons, Minister, then opposition considered it utopia. However, as fast as you then, you have come to the way of the national strategy that has drawn up the 2009-2011 PASOK to stand the country up. So, in conclusion, there had to be a new internal wealth that the country needs, and that was hydrocarbons. Ladies and gentlemen, the pipeline is a landmark project for our country and the Southeast Mediterranean, sealing the cooperation of Greece - Cyprus - Israel, strengthening our country diplomaticly towards Turkey, defining the geopolitical and energy developments in the wider region, strengthening our country's role, the role of Greece in the Mediterranean. In fact, I would say, by the way, that he's mocking Erdogan's preoccupation and the neo-Ottoman claims he promotes. Because with the agreement the countries actually agree that they do not accept the role of Emperor Erdogan in the Mediterranean, a role that Erdogan himself wants to impose for himself. This is particularly useful for Europe, since Greece defines the European Union's external borders. They are, ladies and gentlemen, the first pipeline in the last few decades beginning with the deposits of a Member State, passes through a large part of the Member States and leads to the heart of Europe. Thus, Europe is being released from third countries' dependence on its supply of mineral resources. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the political significance of the project is important. This pipeline strengthens stability, security and development in the Mediterranean and the European Union. So it is crucial - and here is the duty of the current government - that you take the necessary steps, Minister, to ensure that the pipeline is a means of cooperation, of developing the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean, that is to say, a symbol of peace, unity and development for the wider region. In fact, I would say that it should be stressed here that, in the context of this transnational agreement, it is necessary to commit politically the countries involved that all new gas deposits to be discovered will lead to this pipeline. One point, however, which should be clarified, is that Italy is lacking in signature and that, of course, Minister, must be directly required. In conclusion, the government must inform us of the developments that we expect. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I have left the major issue of the delimitation of the Greek EEZ to the end. For all of us, the defence and exercise of our sovereign rights is unnegotiable. We are in a post-mortem situation, and Greece must move decisively to guarantee its sovereign rights. In fact, we are at risk, after the UN post of the coordinates of the Turkey- Libya Agreement, to run behind developments. That is why, Minister, the delimitation of the EEZ is urgently required. You have the support of all of us. Run the procedures. Do the thing! And we say it today, which symbolically honours the historic anniversary of the hundred years since the liberation of Thrace. So run before delays cause national costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u89	The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u90	But after his chief spoke, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u91	He's got a right to talk, he's just gonna talk in half a year. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, thank you very much. The presence in the Greek Parliament is good for you to know. Come more frequently those who are 'tourists'. I want to begin, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u93	Mr Heta, to whom were you addressing the tourists?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u94	I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u95	The tourists you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u96	I didn't say anything. Now I've started.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u97	No, the tourists you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u98	Don't write anything. I didn't start my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u99	But you said something about a tourist. Who have you been addressing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u100	I did not start my speech, Mr President. I said 'thank you, Mr President' and start my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u101	But I heard you now, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, we talked a lot of time ago. Have all this written? Did everything we talked about before?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u103	Of course, but from the microphone, from the Step you referred to a 'tourist'. Do you have anyone in particular from the Chamber? Because if you referred to someone in the Chamber, I must bring you back to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u104	No, Mr President, I did not start my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u105	Good, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u106	I'm starting my word now. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what has been said before is obviously outside the Minutes, I hope. I would like to start with a report made by our President and say a lot of years to our Thrace today, to say it. It is a day landmark for a place that passed through many adventures and many struggles to finally gain its freedom in 1920. Thrace is indeed a place of polypathy, but it is also a place forgotten by the Greek state. I am not talking about the Government of New Democracy, I am saying from the state these years. We remembered her recently, unfortunately, with the negative events that we had in Evros and the Castanes. When the channels left and the cameras closed, the people who stayed there returned to a normality with which they were not satisfied. They have complaints from the state. Let's look at this. Secondly, before I go to the bill, Minister. Because on 23 July 2020 - and this is a proposal from the party which I would like to repeat - is completed two years after the tragic murderous fire in Matti, there is a proposal to the Bureau of Parliament and to the Prime Minister of the country building a monument in honor of the wronged souls, the hundreds of two souls lost that day in the fire in Matti. And I want to believe that this thing will happen and we will see a monument where it reminds us that we need to improve a great deal in our everyday lives and as constructions, but also as people and as attitudes, so that we do not mourn victims again. And to close this cycle and say that in a few days' time, on May 19, on the day of the black anniversary of the Pontium Genocide the Greek Solution suggested that the city hall be lighted up there, the House and all the town halls of the country. Our request from the President of Parliament has been accepted. We must all send a message that day - and I think we can do so - that we do not forget the atrocities against the Greeks and on 19 May, as we have done for other countries, we will all be Pontius. Minister, you have expressed some questions - I do not know, they have been created - and I want to tell you that we are in agreement with EastMed and you have 'yes' from us - since 2008, not today. For twelve years the Greek Solution has said 'yes' about EastMed and it is clear that today we will vote 'yes'. In reply to Mr. Loverdo, who said we made a tough criticism, we'll say things the way they are. We are in favour of EastMed, of course, because there are many benefits that the country can bring, we simply pointed out the problems that exist, which are clear. And for me they don't have two titles. One big problem is Italy, and you know it, and the other is EOZ. If we don't solve these two things, I don't know how far this can go. We must, Mr Hatzidakis, make tough criticisms and highlight the problems, but that is what we are 'yes', we are not talking about it. Whatever is in favour of our country and of our interest we are 'yes'. I would like to say, therefore, that if we move on to EastMed under these circumstances with an Italy that probably whistles indifferently, it reminds me of the metro inauguration in Thessaloniki with SYRIZA that we were inaugurating instead of trains, mustamads. I mean, that reminds me about. We are also in favour of the metro, of EastMed, but also of becoming a reality and of having realistic approaches. That's what I mean. In relation to Turkey, I will make a very brief reference to the statements made by the Turkish Foreign Minister, Cavusoglu. He doesn't keep his mouth shut and he keeps causing us. And we need to see it, Minister, and I'm sure you can see it. And we told the National Council yesterday that the Chief of HNDGS - our Chief of HNDGS, Mr Florus - yesterday speaking to his European counterparts, pointed out the high chance of an accident due to Turkish provocation. And unfortunately, Erdogan is working on this whole issue with illegal immigrants, but also with Evros now that we are going to start again and have problems. These are very important problems, and since I said about illegal immigrants, I would tell you that we had two cases in Lesvos. I would like to say that as much as you can avoid it in some way, all this tactic which, of course, is more reflected in the Ministry of Immigration and Mr Mitarakis is wrong. It's a mistake, and we'll pay for it. Direct assignments, leases ships, prepares new structures, we had two new cases. We went six hundred and went seven hundred fifty to the Key, sixty-five Somalians and Colognezos, and they took knives to Thebe. I mean, it's too much and too important. I would also like to point out something, as far as measures are concerned in the next few days, because today and Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras have come to the market, they have spoken with the businessmen, with shoppers and I think everyone will follow because the difficult things are coming. We got out of the house, but the hard stuff comes and we have to deal with this as a country to avoid the worst. Don't look at the theater of irrationality and communication games in the next few days. We saw ministers with drunkards counting, taking distances, wearing masks or anything else. Don't see again tomorrow, on Sunday, which will open, for example, the churches to have some arrests again and to exhaust all our rigour there, or to force the Greeks now that they will open and the beaches sit on each four umbrellas. At the same time, as Kyriakos Velopoulos rightly said, and for us who travel a lot with the planes, because we are parliamentarians in the province, the transition with the planes will soon be normal. One will sit next to the other. That's a little weird. I close by making a reference to the coronary, because there are different opinions, which should reasonably be heard. One should tell us, for example, about the opinion of Mr. Dimitris Kouvela, who is the director of an Aristotle pharmacology laboratory, which says that it is a false picture of the mortality of COVID -19 or of the opinion of Mr. Michalis Giannakou, who is the President of the WTO, and says that patients end up with seasonal influenza and tell them that they died from accompanying illness. Also, someone should tell us about Mr. Dimitris Gakis's opinion, a surgeon, a former AHEPA director, and he says at some point the micro-fraud will be revealed. In addition, one should tell us about the opinion of Mr Theodoros Vassilakopoulos, who is a pneumonology professor of the intensive treatment of the Athens School of Medicine, and says that it is from zero to dangerous the effectiveness of the textile mask. Finally, Mr Marios Matsakis, a coroner from Cyprus, says that, behind the strict measures, scientific naivety and clandestine are hiding and so much else, which we do not say, but scientists who, I think, have the same veils as the others who are now on the front line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u107	Mr Anastassios Hatzidis has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. With the ratification of this agreement today, a new diplomatic chapter is being created for the country. From the outset, the implementation of this pipeline seemed difficult and the obstacles were insuperable. Yes, the road is long. But today we are adopting an agreement which lays the foundations for a new energy-focused partnership. Today we are multipliering Greece's geostrategic role in the Eastern Mediterranean and we are creating new growth prospects. The pipeline is very important for Europe. It is a European project because it ensures alternative sources and routes of gas so that Europe is not dependent on one or two providers alone. Indeed, it will potentially be able to cover up to 10% of our continent's needs in the future. Furthermore, this pipeline is not a geopolitical project of national importance alone. It works as a strong response to Turkish reform. On the one hand, it cancels in practice the Mexican doctrine of the country, a doctrine that has emerged in a national narrative in the neighbouring country, even though it is incompatible with all international law and, on the other, confirms the recognition of Greece as a pole of regional stability in the Mediterranean. It is not enough to declare that we are a security provider. We must also prove that today the New Democracy Government is doing this and that is what it is doing. In essence, therefore, we are participating in a peace and cooperation plan in an area which, unfortunately, is traditionally renowned for tensions and conflicts. This pipeline seals Greece's strategic cooperation with Cyprus and Israel. We are now paving the way for this cooperation to develop into an alliance of strategic depths, and the beginning is today with our joint work in the fields of energy and defence and then a next road. This cooperation is not being done against third parties. It is only for the benefit of our countries and our region and we must say that no one has been excluded from this project. Turkey was blocked by its own attitude towards things. A country that acts as a regional turmoil, which causes its neighbours every day and ignores International Law and Agreements, cannot participate in such a cooperation project. The current agreement therefore makes Greece an energy hub in Southeast Europe, in combination with the existing TAP, IGB, but also the future liquefiation station in Alexandroupolis, creates new cooperative schemes that are not only left on the commercial side. They contribute decisively to establishing good neighbourly relations with active support for allies and partners. Here I would also like to dwell on US support, as Congress supports this agreement at a very high level. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agreement also contains, as the Minister said, a strict framework of environmental safety rules. The government has been talking about joint emergency and accident plans from the beginning. Indeed, the question was raised in the context of the tripartite cooperation with the United States last February. We don't just live in them. We continue to work to establish multilateral partnerships that protect the pipeline and create new fields of regional convergence. The other day, for example, we had the joint declaration of the Foreign Ministers of the Pentamer to intensify political consultations on security and stability in the Mediterranean. Let us remember that these countries strongly condemned the Turkish challenges to the Cypriot EEZ and the Aegean, calling on Ankara to respect international law without delay. This draft law takes into account future developments. It provides for expanding the pipeline capacity in Crete, to make use of any deposits there too. After all, the government continues its energy planning unreasonable after the concessions ratified by Parliament last October. Furthermore, it ensures gas in areas without network, such as Crete and the Peloponnese, and so we open up the way to reducing pollutants in many areas of our country. I am pleased that the largest opposition party recognises the importance of EastMed and supports the ratification of the agreement. Even SYRIZA, who was at first fighting rabies, has recognized his value for a long time and this cross-party support of the project is important for the faith of many in this project. Today, then, we are upgrading the geopolitical value of our country in Europe and the Mediterranean. We put the country at the heart of energy developments and create a security framework for our national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u109	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Kriton Arsenis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you said that we were actually asking you to elect Greece only with candles. That was the phrase you stressed. I want us to be clear here. We ask you to copy what other countries do, such as Germany, which you hear very carefully and obey on so many other things. In Germany, therefore, there is a great growth of photovoltaics in houses and roofs. In Germany, they are not five large companies that have taken the monopoly of renewable energy sources. There are decentralized systems, there is the sharing of the "green" revolution and the participation of households. We are the country of the sun and yet there is no substantial programme that strengthens and enables neighborhoods, households, houses to participate in green development. Revolution has to be done with photovoltaics on the roof. We call on you to effectively develop renewable energy sources, to move from hydrocarbons to climate change, and to do so by sharing the benefit to all households. However, you support what you give the few, and that is why you will not go ahead with this project, which is what other countries do with great success. Also, wind parks must be close to the cities, near where there is energy demand, not back to the mountain, not - as it starts last - at the highest peak of each mountain, at the most virgin point. There must be a prioritization. There are consequences. Even any environmental organization you ask will tell you that there are consequences. This development must be done at the benefit of the Greek family, of direct benefit, and of development where there are fewer effects, not like all the other things we have done, in order to benefit some specific businesses that do whatever they want, with any impact, everywhere. You said to us 'I did not say the environmental organizations traitors'. Because here we are going to lose our senses, Minister, you said or did not say - and through your social media - that if you listened to environmental organizations, thousands of people would be gathered outside this House to call you a traitor? What designation does this give for environmental organisations? If you want to have the courage of your opinion and say such things, let us have your courage and your apologies, because you must apologise to environmental organisations and to anyone who reacts and is now dispersing it. We also heard no condemnation of what your rapporteur said, who said that the parliamentary forces in the House against the EastMed pipeline serve foreign interests. We're waiting for a conviction from you for this thing. To ask you whether you, like the other European countries, will ban the use of gas in heating for new buildings. It seems to me to be a waste of time. But you should do this for a phrase, in a sense, a big problem, climate change, for the same reason that we should not have mining. And because a lot has been heard - I have listened very carefully to Mr Loverdos - about the history of mining and how proud the government, SYRIZA, the Change Movement for this mining story, I would like to remind him of what Mr Maniotis said on 21-12/2012: 'The next twenty-30 years, public revenue from mining will be 150 billion.' With these trades of hope, we have reached this point. Careers were built on the hydrocarbon extraction. And it should be a point of shame for all the parties involved, not a flag, because it is a flag of opportunity. I have asked you, Mr Hatzidakis, to tell us what these revenues have so far been, from mining and from research rights. Do you know what you've answered to me? You never answered me. Your service refused to reply to this request for documents. You're so proud! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u111	We continue with Mr. Georgios Tsipras from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, EastMed has been through different phases. No doubt he acquired flesh and bones during SYRIZA governance, which moved extremely quickly both in the launch of this multilateral project and in the tenders for the development of marine land in the country's western and southern maritime zone. Thus, at a time when geopolitical competitions are associated with competitions related to energy pipelines and routes, Greece - its foreign and energy policy - was extremely active and actively until last July. Not only have they remained behind developments, but they have created and exploited the energy interest and interests of third parties in the European Union, the United States, Israel and powerful players in the field of energy, for the benefit not only of the country's participation in the development of energy networks in our region, but also of the benefit of geopolitical interests and security in the country. In the same spirit, we have moved to the conclusion of the Prespecies Agreement with Northern Macedonia, which the vast majority see today - especially today, after the escalation of Turkish provocativeness at new levels - that it was not just a profitable agreement for the country, but extremely urgently. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the denomination of hostility between the two countries, but above all, the infiltration of third parties in our relations. Thus, it is perfectly understandable that the congratulations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with Mr. Dendias to the neighbouring country for her entry into NATO, with the signing of the Greek Government, are quite understandable. What is not understandable is the absence of even a word of self-criticism for the micro-party attitude that the New Democracy has held as opposition to the Prespecies Agreement, exclusively for election benefit, self-criticising the promises that it will review the accession process of Northern Macedonia to the European Union and many others that have been forgotten the next day of July. Fortunately, EastMed didn't have the same luck. It is certain that he would have it if he offered a micro-party controversy. However, his future is not a given one. Mostly, it is not given that a geopolitical benefit is provided if it is not accompanied by an active and active foreign policy. As I said, EastMed went through different phases. Indiscriminate from the current situation and problems of the project when the accedings were Greece together with Italy - in an earlier period, it was already SYRIZA that was government - the question was not Italy, but Israel. At that time, the prospects for a gas pipeline that Israel would connect with Turkey were ahead of us. This prospect has not yet been completely abandoned. It was in the last four years that EastMed’s perspective took precedence, a change in which he played no insignificant role, and the active policy of both the Greek Ministry of Energy and especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, until at least the first meeting of the Energy Ministers of the four countries in Jerusalem. Today EastMed's perspective is related to three new series of problems. One is economic sustainability, obviously. Having exceeded what was initially the main problem, the technical problem, the technical feasibility, the economic viability depends on the European Union's will to strengthen the project financially. If the collapse of the international prices of hydrocarbons - which no one can say how temporary it will be and until it returns - threatens shale hydrocarbons throughout the whole of the United States, how much it is likely that it is threatening great projects such as EastMed. The second series of problems relates to the change of attitude of the Italian governments following the last elections. I'm not opening that. The third and most important are developments in relation to Turkey's mobility in the wider region. EastMed from a geopolitical point of view is a tool and that is why we supported it and promoted it very quickly. It does not guarantee Greece in guaranteeing its rights. It increases the country's benefits in safeguarding them, but it does not guarantee them. The political preparation, even construction of EastMed, does not automatically mean defining maritime zones. There must be no illusions in this. The possibility of EastMed combining with pressures or retreats to the country's sovereign rights is a real possibility and the only way to prevent such a prospect is to prevent an external policy that is active, active and multidimensional, such as ours. The delusion and the slightness of a first period by the Mitsotakis Government for Greek-Turkish relations were abruptly dismantled - I hope they were dismantled - after the Turkey - Libyan Pact. What was followed by Greek, clearly less than the increased needs of an active foreign policy, but without serious results so far, only reassurance does not allow and above all does not confirm the government's account of isolation for Turkey. It is a desire, a will is, a reality it is not. I come to the issue of DEPA. Before that I would point out - because it is becoming tiring, it is noteworthy, I think - that there is a party in the Greek Parliament that, in all energy issues but also in some national issues, there is a very close proximity with great-powered wishes, Russia I mean, which is a problem, but I will continue. Mr. Hatzidakis, with one of the first bills of the Ministry that showed great importance to break down the PPC to three companies, DPRK Trade, Infrastructure and International Works, with statements, but also a preparatory article in the previous bill, does not hide the Government's intention to privatise the Infrastructures, the TEN and the IPTO. The DESCA did not catch him up, because the troika caught him, but SYRIZA managed to keep, as we saw, under public control everything else. A small parentheses: I do not think it helps to talk - it is getting tedious - to constantly refer, Mr Hatzidakis, to the subject of the WTO. You know we inherited the obligation to privatize him. We have not been able to prevent this and our political will has been known since then that we did not want to move on, but we could not do anything else. The fact that we wanted to do this is proof that we kept everything else. And in any case, I don't think it's worth a lot of argument to say that because we privatised the DESCA, you have the right or it's right to privatise everything else. It's not working. Remind me of what I have said from this Chamber. The old PPA, with the participation of the EMI and SHELL, did not show any great heat for the development of networks and the country remained without the two major cities with sufficient gas networks. Because you have referred to our own governance and all of us have a past, Karamanlis governance and Samara there has never been any serious network development. Although it was with 51% state involvement, IPTO was quite active in four and a half years of our own governance in the development of a power transmission network. The PPC of International Works has held it under state control and you will develop EastMed. Mr Hatzidakis said in his position that he will eventually absorb the public and the share of ELPEs in it, so we will have a 100% public company, which will manage the development of EastMed and all the international projects of the old DPRK. Second parentheses: he didn't understand. With the alchemys and calculations how it turns out that we would privatise this, because it would be the ELPEs that were not privatised, I mean that it did not lose the public in 35%, it is truly incomprehensible. I can't watch him. But the question is this: You are privatising everything else and remains the PLO of Internationals in the public domain. It's very good that he stays in public. What is the logic behind that you did not tell us. So, the same arguments that apply to other companies, why don't they apply to the International PLO? Does the issue of the competitiveness of the markets go for a card? In other words, where there are profits and even monopolistic profits or regulated profits, we transfer them to the private sector. Where the person who takes it has to be financially supportive, the State takes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u113	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Thanasis Pafilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u114	I would like to put on behalf of the JRC a number of questions concerning the government, which are urgent and immediate. The first concerns the issue of beaches and plaques. The situation is unacceptable and you know it and it will get worse because of the little heater coming this weekend. Of course the government has decided to open the private tables. That's half. What did we ask before the government took the decision? To open without tickets. The world is a burden. I imagine - and so it is - that the popular layers go to these tables, because those who have the money have private in front of their homes. So what the government needs to do immediately - and we say it again and repeat it again - is to open up without tickets, but of course we do not expect much. Secondly, the employer and the government in relation to the undertakings have been dismantled in the name of the coronary. Apart from the legislative acts and the anti-corruption measures they take, they are aired and businessmen are literally undone along with the government. Firstly, 'LARCO'. Mr. Hatzidakis, you take on enormous responsibilities. You cannot blackmail the world, 'or privatization' or 'LARCO' closes'. You know and everyone knows what 'LARCO' means. I don't want to repeat it. I said it when you brought the amendment. At the moment you say: 'I have 35 million euros, I do not give any more, cut your neck'. At the same time, the administration, which has orders from customers of goods, reduces production and blackmails workers who are mobilised on this basis and other measures are taken. Stop it now. That's our place. I'll warn you of something else, not personally, but the government. LARCO is not what it is and I mean in terms of movement. He's got a very long story. Don't think with various moves you'll subdue the world. And we are not talking about the workers of LARCO. LARCO workers are so baked and under such conditions that they know what they will do. We are talking about the whole region of Fthiotida and Evia. I'm saying this, because Mr. Staruras, who's Falcon, is in charge, actually. Stop and put the company ahead. Stop blackmailing the workers. Did you cut their wages and in the midst of a crisis like that? Well, aren't you ashamed? Who? I'm telling you, go and sit in the factory one day and then come and tell us, see if you can talk. And you're coming now and you're reducing them by 30%? What kind of inhumanity is that? Unscrupulous! Third, "TERNA", former Skalist. Two hundred eighty-eighty offspring practically. Extortion! Soberly, and Terna. He's in Omonia with a accordion and he's asking for money. They've basically been under the blackmail, voluntary redundancies. He's throwing two hundred eighty families on the street. What's gonna happen? It's an entire region, and they're not very few. Fourthly, the SCHNEIDER-ELECTRIC is closed by 31 October. And what does it say now? He sent a ultimatum: "Tell us by 8 June how you'll be fired." Who? The company that's pissed off! Fifty years she has taken her hairheads off of PPC orders mainly and now on the road! And now your myth, many, that the workers are shutting down business! They're not shutting them down. Capitalists are closing them. They're awkward. They have no problem. They close them not because they have no profit, notice, but they don't have the expected profits. I mean, they can't take three wardrobes, they can take two. That's the reality of saying it with folk talk. Fifth, S.A.A. Well, now have you found, in the crisis, suggesting the Ministry of Finance to the management of the company - we'll see you tomorrow, I have tour there - to remove from the 2020 budget all the non-wage benefits other than milk? That's 3.070,000 euros. Now did you find yourself in this crisis that the whole world has kneeled? What's that law, so people can understand? The collective bargaining between the General Government and unions on the ground is under guard. It is essentially a ban on collective bargaining. You, who are in favour of free negotiations! It's just the same thing there. You're talking about ABB, you're making hymns. You will make it a 'LOCKHEED' subcontractor and dependant. But that's not what you're using either. And what's going on? He's leaving high-skilled personnel, takes 8,000 and 10,000 euros elsewhere. They're leaving! What can they do with eight hundred and reductions that are now taking place? They're leaving, and that's what LAPD is sending out. He's kicking out of business, and we can't really appreciate why. The most likely is for LOCKHEED to have it. Take them back. Finally! It's so many people. Three thousand were working in the OAB. You have humiliated her completely, and she has enormous potential and everyone knows it, and it could offer too much in other areas too. Now for the bill, this is where we heard hymns. There was here the choir, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK - KINAL and "as usual" that we say in genuine Greek, as usual, with various tricks the Greek Solution, all of them reciped "Have EastMed", "Have Greece", etc., arguments. You're saying it's of the utmost importance. I'll tell you what it is at the end. There's been a competition, a pass for who handled it better all these years. Note that all together here said that the EastMed pipeline is a benefit for Greece, that it will bring Greece's geostrategic upgrading, that it will contribute to Europe's energy security. By the way, it will have less than 2%, that is, it won't have, but it is thought to have. For SYRIZA's multidimensional foreign policy, I'll say later. Is that true? Aren't we going down a little bit on earth and actually? What's going on in the area. You're talking about instability. But you're good with us? What is the region instability? It has imperialist wars that have been evacuated for too many years. Let's start from Afghanistan, where's farther, and Iraq? Oil! Libya? Oil! Syria? Oil! We have a war! Who's doing the war? The people? Oh, no! Who's intervening? All your allies are intruding, the ones to whom you swear. We have no instability, we have an intensification of competition in the region. Why don't you say it? There are tough competitions with unforeseen consequences and internal contradictions. On the one hand, the USA, NATO and the European Union and on the other, Russia on the military presence and energy and China on the silk road that passes through the Balkans. Is it true or not what we say? Is that the situation in the area? Why, then, is this competition possible? For peoples to live beautifully and happy? Don't tell us it's about it! It is about energy, the control of energy roads and geostrategic issues in general, and that is why they conflict. And big powers clash, big companies collide about who's gonna make more. Really, what do the people in the region gain? Blood, infinite blood everywhere: Iraq, Syria, Libya. Everywhere! Hundreds of thousands of kills. Why is this all happening? What does Greece gain? And what do I mean? Of course, Greece has two Greeks and I'll see you later. But what does Greece gain from all the situation that exists? It wins refugees and the Greek people won nothing. You say things, and we ask them: is Greece in all this state of affairs unrelenting? Is it like the peaceful country in the region? Really? Since it is a peaceful country, what is it doing in Libya? What does it have to do to get the Syrian Embassy out? What does it have to do with sending an army - even a small division - to Iraq and Afghanistan? How is it a peaceful country? Tell us a plan that exists from all the imperialist forces that Greece did not participate in when requested. Everywhere! And the people pay the consequences. And the consequences are in money. We have asked many times about the cost of Greece's participation in the major imperialists' plans and you are not answering us. It costs money the Greek people pay for 4 billion for NATO. Of course it costs the refugee too. We talked about them another time and I do not want to analyse them. Is Greece winning - the Greek people I mean - of all this on energy? It's more expensive. And with the green version, Mr Arseni, and the other version. The Greek people pay more power. And the treasurers are the groups. You say that Greece is geostrategically upgraded. But what is the reality? The last governments, SYRIZA and New Democracy, with the support of KINAL, proceeded with the full integration of the country into the American-Russian plans. Yes or no? [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Give me two minutes, Mr. President. Apart from the US agreement, SYRIZA has given new bases - and without having gone through the House - after 1965-1966, I do not know when. However, since 1974, no government has dared to give new bases beyond Souda that was upgraded each time with all governments. What did you give? And you're talking about geostrategic upgrade? You gave the military and civil facilities to use by the Americans as they want. Isn't that what the deal says? Where's that? Where has it happened? Which country is not in possession? It's getting more elegant, but it's getting more elegant. This is where you crossed every limit. Now what are you doing? Nikos Karathanasopoulos read them. It is the 'EstMed Act' project. The law of the Americans, which is precisely - and in word - commands and implements. It's enough to the point - it's amazing! - to say we're going to train leaders. That was what the State Department report said before and we read it here. We will train leaders, educate them to serve American interests. You dare - fortunately few - say that anyone who opposes these plans serves foreign interests. Oh, my god. His master's voice! That's such a blur! But, you know, things change once and they get paid very expensive. Why is the government doing this now? Because he's hypocritical? So says the Greek Solution that has now come out on the tiles for Greece. Is he a gradient? No, of course, you're voting on it, leave the tricks because it's not advertising here, it's politics. So I say, why is he doing it? Because he's hypocritical? No, because it serves the interests of Greek capital - that's history! - and big groups that want to take one, small, but serious, piece of energy, transport and everything else. It is a choice, it is not submissive in general and abstractly. Greece is an imperialist country. What is it when he participates in all war operations and when he has huge capital exports? It's small, of course, but it's in the chain. He's in the chain and he's the weakest link? Maybe it is. It can also be done for something else, Mr. Courides, where you're looking at me. SYRIZA took it off. This would not dare New Democracy to do so easily. He said NATO is good, that yes, he's our ally, he protects us all. They came out here and said NATO was good, it's changed, Clinton is evilly good. He took off American relations and characterizes them as multidimensional. What multidimensional? Are you kidding us? You were a little shaken by the Americans, and where you were about to give the shipyards to the Chinese you went and gave them to the Americans directly. What multidimensional? Tell the truth at least and take the blame! She's protecting us from Turkey, she says. I think, regardless of whether we disagree, you should have a mind. Does EastMed protect us or worsen the situation? We're saying it's getting worse. There are so many things about your allies, ladies and gentlemen of the Eurotax and capitalist development path. The Americans play both with the Turks and with us in order to keep Turkey. The French at the same time as they tell us "we live, we are with Greece" at the same time their company negotiates with the Turks about the oil in the region. In Italy you see what's going on. Let me tell you, they don't have a problem, they want a co-management. They want to get what they want to get from the area and save profits. Finally, I wanted to start with this. Why are we talking about it? For a ghost pipeline. It has the political value of how it happened. It's a ghost pipeline that's not going to happen. Top party executives understand that it is not going to happen. Why? Nikos Karathanasopoulos said in detail why it's not going to happen. It is not going to happen first - to start a little backwards - because all countries have different designs with liquefied gas, etc. And they're not coming in. You were amazed by the sieges for Israel, and first you were wearing the handkerchiefs. Papadimoulis with handkerchiefs and various others -- I accidentally said the name, so it came to me right now -- and they said they were friends of the Palestinians. And today it is moving on to another settlement and occupying other lands. And what one denounced from New Democracy, I think the parliamentary representative, applies. What do you think? That the Israelis will look at Greece for love? Oh, no! If it suits them, they'll go with Turkey. So what are they gonna do? Everyone else does the same. One point, therefore, is that geostrategic balances and alliances in times of crisis - it teaches all history, Mr Cairides - are changing the time according to the interests of the parties involved. This is what the history of mankind has taught. If Imperialism has become something different now and makes deals and charities, etc., this is from the unwrought, which you also put wind turbines in a natural landscape of terrible beauty. One is that planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u115	Not even wind turbines?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u116	No, of course not, they should go put them elsewhere. How's it going to happen? Why would they put them in the unwriting? And to you environmentalists here, who are cut off for the environment, say that they have not yet been calculated, Mr Loverdo, the consequences that will have on the microclimates of the area and the migration of birds and on a number of other things, in these areas, nor have such environmental studies, except those paid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u117	Let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u118	I'm done. Second important, without EOZ. When you haven't declared EOZ in the area what does it mean to build a pipeline? Something, which we say is not going to happen, but regardless of it. Turkey will tell you "I have delimited and I am next to you" or it will cut you in half, it will still exacerbate the controversies, apart from the technical issues that are very large and funding. But this ghost pipeline, as the ghosts do, scares the world. We're talking about looking better at what interests it's going on. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u119	Mrs Marillena Soulis - Vilialis from New Democracy. Two other speakers will follow, thus completing the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too cannot say that we are now called upon to ratify the Greek Parliament an transnational agreement of exceptional national importance. Because the agreement between the Hellenic Republic, the State of Israel, the Republic of Cyprus and the Italian Republic on the construction of a pipeline for the transport of natural gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets is about strengthening a strong grid of energy security and autonomy both for our country and for the European Union. This is a strategic option, which clearly strengthens the country's geopolitical role and thus serves our national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know and believe we all agree on this, this agreement does not take place either in a neutral period of time or, of course, in a region of low geopolitical tensions. We are daily witnesses of the geopolitical exacerbation caused by the Turkish review strategy with a number of violations and it is clear that Turkey's expansion policy has received even more aggressive features and we need action, of course, under International Law, which will ensure both our sovereign rights and stability in the wider Southeast Mediterranean region. Greece has been, and will be, a pillar of stability and peace in the south-eastern Mediterranean. However, it is not going to tolerate illegal geopolitical acronyms from the neighbouring country. And we certainly don't have the delusion, as it sounded earlier. Kyriakos Mitsotakis did not answer either Evros, Evros, or the Aegean, or Turkey's move with part of the Libyan state. The illusions in the conscience of the Greek people have been identified with a single person. We create the necessary alliances and move with coolness, with seriousness, speed and efficiency towards achieving our strategic goals. This bill is another step in this direction. The new energy corridor should be considered and integrated into the international energy security system, because we must not forget that the strengthening of differentiated sources of energy supply is also a key pillar of the strategy for energy, foreign policy and security for the European Union itself. This is because the search for energy routes, roads that promote energy independence is a matter of paramount importance for all European states. Let us be clear: the EastMed pipeline, along with the Poseidon pipeline and, together with a number of allies, create a common place of matching, but also a single action on an issue that is clearly in the interests of the Member States that favour their energy security. Furthermore, for our country the construction and operation of a gas pipeline is currently concerned and also with the future of energy policy. Apart from allowing countries that already produce gas to distribute it to the European Union, it will enable our country to be properly prepared to implement its own exploitation plan in a timely and efficient manner. This is why it is planned to extend the capacity of the pipeline to the landing point in Crete and, although - and if - we will find deposits in Crete from the permitting of the cuts, which were given to the MOBIL, TOTAL and the Greek PETRELAYA consortium, we will be ready to make use of our own wealth-producing resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the conversion of our country into a transit hub of course and will have direct and indirect economic benefits for the Greek state. But sovereignly - and we must not forget that - it will strengthen our pro-investment profile more, because this will make the country more attractive to investment, since geopolitical security is also inextricably linked to investment security that seeks candidate investors. Furthermore, I would also like to address some of the voices of counter-population, which perhaps because of poor arguments have spoken so warmly about their relationship with environmental protection as if there were a contractor relationship that other parties cannot develop with environmental protection within the Greek Parliament. I would suggest that this major issue should not be turned into meaningless opposition rhetoric. Let's leave the environment outside the micropolitical games. For our Government the environment and its protection are a strategic parameter of all our actions, and this in practice, not in words. This draft law adopts a strict framework for safeguarding environmental security at every stage and implementing it, but also operating the pipeline. In every phase. At this point and as the only woman, a member of the Greek Parliament from the Peloponnese Region, I would like to thank the Prime Minister personally, but also Minister Kostis Hatzidakis for his immediate commitment and care to ensure that the cities of the Peloponnese are not excluded from gas distribution. When there's a will, there's an effective way and our Government's way away from micropolitical games proves it in practice every day. Ladies and gentlemen, lately the country has achieved something very, very important and indeed within an environment of an unprecedented health crisis. He has managed to strengthen the confidence and credibility index both internally, in particular as regards the multi-faceted relationship between state and citizens and abroad by strengthening the country's image as a modern and effective European state. With this bill we continue on the road to active and efficient exploitation of the country's energy and geopolitical potential. With design and self-confidence we build the Greece of tomorrow, Greece that finally highlights its real face, the face of creation and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Mr Efstratios Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how many of us have seen the film 'The Tourist', starring Johnny Depp and the protagonist of Angelina Jolly. It came to my mind, thinking about the battle of geopolitical interests that is taking place on the occasion of pipelines. In the film the interests were west, Russian, Chinese, and of course there was the tourist who had to survive. In this case, I could like Greece to the tourists of the film, and I could be likened to it because there really are conflicts in the area from which we need to get out. For decades, our party has made choices which, over time, have proved right and have been choices when a side of this House wanted us to collide with the rival pole of what I call "atlantism". It was a time when some wings within the House were really either fishing in the blurred waters of the unbundled, or they had the dominant views of leaving the alliances. So the decades passed proved that these choices were absolutely correct. These were choices by which, at the end of the day, most of them were drawn up if not all, except for one exception, the wings of the House. We are therefore in an environment which I will say 'friendly-Atlantic', and we must therefore go to the time when the pipeline diplomacy, which also concerns gas, is at the top of all the major international players, at the top of their priorities. We have also been through lately at a time when the Greek Government, diplomaticly and politically, is moving towards a halt to Turkish upheaval and provocativeness. We obviously saw it in Evros, with the common high school with France, with the Patriots in Saudi Arabia, with the act in the United States of EastMed Act. In general, we have seen it through specific acts that have caused an irritation in Turkey, and as a result the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs and the NATO summit leave. So I think EastMed belongs to this category. Apart from an economic field, a large economic investment is at the same time a geostrategic ally. If someone was at the end of February at a forum that took place here in Athens, where the Ambassadors of the United States, Turkey and Israel participated, he would fully understand how these three countries think. And I cannot hear the Acoustic Opposition speak of a multi-dimensional foreign policy when its speaker from the Step in fact a few months ago, from an institutional position, was identified with the position of the Turkish Ambassador who said clearly that we have the largest shores in the Eastern Mediterranean and we want a proportionate part of these shores in the extraction of hydrocarbons. Let me also remind you that thirty years ago, it was I think 21 May, the late Constantine Mitsotakis, then, thirty years ago, restored our diplomatic relations with Israel. Since then, we have also started to have this side of our foreign policy. Also, this party here is the one that brought the Chinese and Chinese investment when some of Parliament's wings did not want it. So this factually practicing a constantly multidimensional policy does not deviate from 'atlantism'. I think the last decades have shown that it is doing very well. EastMed is a pipeline that started. It has already been financed at study level. So they're not drawings on paper. And if we wait to solve all the issues of such a big project to start some way, we'll never start it. Finally, with regard to the Minister, I would like to see an issue concerning the region of central Macedonia and the Peloponnese as regards the natural gas networks. A transitional phase must be found, one way, because the natural gas networks are linked to the permits of dwellings and buildings. In the spatial bill, which you may bring, you need to find a way to ensure that, until you solve this, people do not have a problem in issuing permits in their area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. Mr Christoforos Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy, which is the last speaker on the list. The latter will follow those of the rapporteurs. I should like to make a warm request that the speeches made by the rapporteurs and the special speakers be brief, because I must remind you that at 16 a.m. - but we will be late - the meeting of the Committee on Civil Liberties is scheduled to begin on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice relating to the hearing of bodies. It is a good request, therefore, that any intervention by the rapporteurs be brief. Mr. Butsikaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the horn pandemic has highlighted the need for the state to prepare itself. It is perhaps the first time in modern Greek history that a government has moved so directly but also so effectively in a major and serious crisis. Having the whole society with us, we prevented the spread of the virus. We have succeeded where even the most powerful countries have failed. We have managed not to lose thousands or tens of thousands of human lives, as has unfortunately happened in other states. This is why the state and society together managed by Greece from Europe's 'black sheep' to be a model world-wide country. The Greek positions are now adopted in the EU and proof of this is the framework for tourism and transport decided yesterday by the European Commission. Let us not forget, after all, that Greece first raised the issue of tourism in the European public debate. Today, Greece, thanks to the rapid and effective treatment of pandemic, is one of the safest countries and the safest destinations. We are also showing this to the benefit of tourism. We therefore call on the tourists to prefer Greece for their holidays this year, while taking all the necessary preventive measures, because the battle with the krone is not over yet. Ladies and gentlemen, an even greater battle is starting now, the battle of the economy. International studies estimate that the economic impact will be greater than the 2008 recession and some more compare them to the 1929 crisis. With the measures taken by the New Democracy Government to support the productive forces of the country, as well as the entire Greek society, the crisis is expected to be much weaker and to take much less time than the beginning of 2021. This is also confirmed by international houses. It is therefore in the hands of all of us to achieve it and to achieve it. In the last year, in the small and large problems, all Greeks are aware of how important it is to have an organized state. And the huge success of the New Democracy Government and of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, was to make people feel that the state is here. Within less than a year of a Uragua we have become a pioneer in Europe and in the health crisis, but also in the guarding of borders. I do not want to think of what would happen with all the exceptional circumstances we have faced in recent years if there were the government of SYRIZA in the country. Fortunately, fate has protected us and we will never know. I'm coming to the bill now. The ratification of the agreement on the EastMed pipeline, this vital and strategic project, is a huge challenge for the coming years, a challenge of growth and prosperity for the Greek people, but also of stability in the wider region. Greece, Cyprus and Israel are working together to transport gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to Europe. The whole energy map of the region is changing. We are the first country to ratify the agreement from Parliament and we have already started the procedures for the immediate implementation of the project. The Greek Government opens the way to strengthen energy security and adequacy not only of Greece, but of the whole of Europe. This development also sends a clear message to our neighbours, the Turks, that they must begin to respect international law and finally stop acting like the bride of the region. Ladies and gentlemen, the benefits of EastMed will be huge. Do you want the geopolitical added value that our country is gaining, do you want Greece to become Europe's centre of energy, yet do you want our strategic role in the Eastern Mediterranean to be strengthened? Moreover, there are many indirect benefits for the economy from the construction and operation of the pipeline itself: the creation of new jobs, the access of all regions of the country to gas supply, the increase of competition and the reduction of gas prices and overall energy prices, so that with more and cheaper energy we can achieve the enhancement of production, the relaunch of industry, the development of the whole country and, of course, the rise in the standard of living of Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the EastMed pipeline strengthens trade cooperation between all the peaceful states of the Eastern Mediterranean. It is not against anyone but at the same time gives no right and room to try to prevent them from being implemented. As far as I am concerned, I will support with all my forces this national effort to develop the whole country, to further promote Greece as a global trading, economic and energy centre. And I'm sure the result will give us all the justice. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons I call on you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President, for completing the circle of speakers. We're on our way to second grades. Mr Ciridis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has already asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u126	I've asked for a second. Deuteronology, don't you? Because you said a statement. We've got it for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u127	I didn't deprive you of your word. He asked Mr. Courides to speak first. Mr. Courides, you have the floor. Please complete as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you personally for your direct and lightning intervention, which you have in the classroom withdrew the inappropriate colleague so that I do not have to intervene. Thank you really for the lightning of this thing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we, in the context of the climate of agreement, decided to be galantic towards the Members of SYRIZA and not to recall what he did before 2015 on the pipeline. Of course, all the KINAL colleagues did so very much. In addition, we have followed a practice of not responding to the statements of the smaller parties. She's small. Okay, there's a tolerance. Whatever we want to talk about. But I think that this galantomy has its limits and should not be misunderstood. We have heard teratology, incredible things that are not really based at all. If I was in Panteion, where I am a professor, I'd know what to do. They wouldn't make it. But what for Panteion is self-evident, unfortunately in the Greek Parliament goes unnoticed. It is perhaps my own distortion of the new Member that I cannot see. I'm not going to deal with the things that have been heard. One took the Zohr look and took it and united it with the Greek border. The other guy said something numbers. I'm only staying on something that I think is important. The spokesman of Mera25 in Germany was mentioned as an example to be imitated and, in fact, with a very strong and great admiration to Angela Merkel and the Christian Democrats for the famous Energiewende. I would remind you that in Germany, coal will be withdrawn from electricity generation ten years later than in Greece in 2038. It is true that Germany has invested hundreds of billions of dollars for alternative energy sources. However, I would like to remind my fellow Member that in recent years in Germany we have increased pollutants and an increase in the print on electricity production, unlike America where we do not have this type of investment. Why? Because of cheap gas there we have a reduction in coal in the electricity mix, and in Germany in recent years there has been a great increase in coal participation. This does not mean that we should not invest in renewable sources and we will do so and we will do so. This means that things are more complicated than we are told by various gadget environmentalists in Greece, who, in a very simplistic way, refer to difficult and complex issues. Energiewende has been very critically criticised in Germany, ladies and gentlemen. If you didn't know, it's good to keep it in mind. You mentioned various things in my abstention that one might accuse the agreement's negligents, either directly or from the result, of serving foreign interests. I can't believe it. I do not want to believe that there are political forces directly serving foreign interests, although there was a colleague, George Tsipras, from the opposition, who made this connection for a specific party with a particular foreign force. Stay away from me such wicked thoughts. But I will stay and insist on 'out of the result'. In other words, from the result, as the Minister said, some are served. Now, it's Erdogan, it's Putin, is the devil? Some of them are. Because in this life nothing is without consequences. I want to close with a warm request. I've read the Rules of Procedure well. The Rules of Procedure provide, Mr President, - I am not referring to you personally - that when we speak from the Step, we speak on a subject and do not take the step to say everything and to say anything. The duty of the President-in-Office is to bring the unsuccessful speaker back to order and, if he does not return to order, to interrupt him. Unfortunately, we have seen party representatives today, party leaders, parliamentary representatives, speaking on behalf of the scientist. It is very difficult for us, with all our experience and patience, to watch all this ray of the intangible telmarketing that turns Parliament into a second class television show. I understand the tolerance of the Bureau, I really understand it, but I note this violation of the Rules of Procedure, which does not help with the real parliamentary debate. I am pleased about the spirit that prevailed. I am pleased with the large majority that this Saturn has, and thank you very much for giving me the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u129	Mrs. Kafantaris, you want to sit down, obviously. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the real conclusion is that EastMed - and most of us agree on this - has a huge geopolitical significance for Greece, as well as for the European Union. In addition to the technical difficulties we have mentioned, it is a project that ensures diversification of energy sources for both the European Union and Greece, and of course, it makes a crucial contribution to energy security, and that is very important. We have come here today to vote and to ratify this international agreement with many governments. Since 2013, the debate, as we said, had begun, but it was crucial to contribute to realisation and to get this far from the SYRIZA Government in the four years 2015-2019, because an active, multidimensional foreign policy was pursued, Minister. I would like to say that this is what we expect from you. You may not be the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs, but because energy is a very serious sector and for this pipeline, which is a number of issues, and in general we must have a multi-dimensional, but above all an active foreign policy. Don't take us for granted. There are two issues. The first has to do with Italy and its participation and it has to do with funding, which also needs diplomacy and active foreign policy. It is also about the substantial support of the United States. And I'm saying that why? Because as far as it's concerned, it's good for the country and the country, it creates alliances, it creates relationships, because the benefit is for your country. Secondly, I now come to you, Minister, because you mentioned SYRIZA in particular. You referred to the energy policy that we have pursued, you referred to the law on the modernisation of environmental legislation - we say this anti-environmental law - and also to the networks. I will tell you with two words that while the Samara Government, in which you participated, had passed the privatisation of IPTO by 66%, we, in harsh conditions, managed the high-voltage networks to be publicly controlled by 51% and, on the other hand, to participate privately, a large Chinese company. Yesterday the results of 2019 came out and the profitability of IPTO was very important. I say this because it really shows that there is a result. We're not prisoners. We simply want public cooperation with the private sector, with specific terms and transparency and transport nets under public control. And that is very important, because you also did something like that in the gas networks, with privatisation, in fact - not to say a sale - and the PPC, etc., while we had passed a specific arrangement that the networks were under public control again. Mr. Hatzidakis, we're not with the candles. Why did you refer to your location: “You with whom are you? You're criticising us about the ESRB. Are you with the candles?’ No, we're not with the candles. We are with the development of renewable energy sources, alternative forms, but with design, terms and rules. You brought the anti-environmental law. Everyone can get permission for RES, there is no spatial planning of RES and you said that in two years there will be. As far as the ETUC is concerned, the use of natural gas, as expressed in the ETUC you have tabled, is until 2050 in electricity production. We are talking about use, gradually decomfit because it is fossil fuel, it is essentially used in transport and heating, it is a fuel for the transition and development of other forms. Here we see that they may be created with your policy and with all that new fireplaces in the energy sector. So the environmental law you voted on doesn't have to withdraw it. Because a comrade of counterpopulation said that. It is judged every day in its implementation and social processes have already begun, which will come out that this law cannot be applied, it is at the expense of the environment. After all, you have used us to legislate and undo. A strong example of the Ministry of Migration Policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u131	Finish it, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u132	However, we have heard many, ladies and gentlemen, about the issues of international law, about fundamental rights. There was a very long conversation. I am going to submit a coin - it has been published in a newspaper for my part, some time ago - for the Law of the Sea. But I'll have two things heard. ‘The exercise of sovereign rights in EEZ requires good neighbourly relations, avoiding conflicts, bilateral and regional conferences to determine the EEZ and its limits, in the context of respect for the international treaties and decisions of the administrative bodies. International law has been established since 1982. The majority of the member states of the UN have signed and ratified it, including Greece, Egypt and the European Union. The United States and Turkey may not have signed International Law, but they also apply it to islands and Turkey to the Black Sea."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u133	Good. Mrs. Kafantari, you'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u134	And I'm closing. So, as a government, Mr Minister, why you represent the government at the moment - you must continue with the multilateral foreign policy that we have achieved in SYRIZA. We won new allies in the region. To ratify, as we have said in our position, international treaties for the protection of the marine environment - they have still not been ratified - so that our country will inevitably exercise its sovereign rights. Thank you very much, Mr President, for one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. In closing this debate, I would like to reiterate that for us it is just right that the innovative option for this project to build an EastMed gas pipeline, which our prolongation with the PASOK government in 2011, with Prime Minister George Papandreou and Minister Giannis Manatis, had begun. Today the signature of the Quartet Intergovernmental Agreement signed by three states, and of course we are waiting for ratification by the other two states. With a broad consensus we welcome this fact. It's very positive. There were other views before 2015 and before 2013. But it is a geostrategic project. And it is a choice for our country, a national choice, a choice that has also been adopted as a European Union option. Having financed the project, it means supporting the project, it recognizes its importance as an alternative gas supply route. At the same time, it reduces Turkey's strength and position as the only carrier in the pipeline and thus reduces the European Union's dependence. And it's not just the quantity size. It is also the prospect of everything that is going on around the subject of supply, suppliers and markets. We hope that everything will go well then. A tight timetable should be set for launching the project. Now they are financed and the studies go ahead, as well as the permits. We must, however, have a timetable for the implementation and financing of the construction. Of course, the results of the studies will be critical. Of course, there should be a design for the operation of the network, its development, if it can carry additional deposits. In other words, there is a projection with greater potential, so that it can have the same perspective. It is true that the signatory countries must commit themselves, that they must support it in practice, be their only option and affect those involved - whether companies or other countries - in the cycle of energy and supply of natural gas for the choice of this pipeline. In conclusion, I would like to mention two points. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One, Mr Minister, concerns the issue of Italy's not signing. We think it's critical. We hope that there will be a positive development. However, as in my first speech I said, but also in our parliamentary representative, we should see exactly what is happening in this case, to see how we can get the best result. In relation to the TEN, you gave the answer that the networks will develop both in Northern Greece and in the Peloponnese. You just didn't determine who. Will it be from the TEN or will it be from private ends? Because that was the question we raised in relation to the prospect of privatization of the PPA. When TENS reduces its work and its activity, it also means reducing its value to be privatised. I close, by exercising our sovereign rights, which are unnegotiable. I refer again to the issue of demarcation of the EEZ for our part. We must move in this direction for reasons and geopolitical reasons, but also for technical reasons relating to the project. You said, Minister, that Article 8 protects the pipeline. Of course, we do not disagree on that. But the point is how it is protected. It must be protected in a way that does not create other situations that we do not want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u137	All right, Mr. Goka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. We do not think that the continuation of monologues makes sense. We have followed the debate seriously and asked questions. We questioned the account of the government and other parties in relation to the EastMed pipeline. Respecting all the interlocutors, I will not confront Mr. Catherides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, Germany is in favour of RES, Mr Colleague, since it produces and sells. We only buy and we need to. It also doesn't close lignite plants before 2038. She's not stupid. As for the size of the parties, I would remind you that Rome has started too. For the rest, with all due respect, it is not worth answering. As far as I am concerned, I would like to say the following: Firstly, we were in favour of the mining of energy reserves. We voted for this bill. So how is it possible not to vote for the pipelines? Why anxiety - as you mentioned earlier - about self-evident? Secondly, we judged the agreement you signed. Do you think we shouldn't, especially when we found so many mistakes and so many ambiguities? Thirdly, obviously the answers to the questions we have raised and to our reservations here and to the committee cannot be smile and irony. It's not an answer or an argument. I'm so sorry! Fourthly, did we say not to strengthen our relations with Israel? We have said exactly the opposite. But you know, good accounts make good friends. Otherwise, there is a disastrous situation in relations. Unfortunately, that's exactly what you're at stake in. Fifthly, we have said that Italy is a big problem. You think it's not a problem? Do you have a replacement plan? You want to tell us? We mentioned the same thing about the AOZ. Do you think our position on the non-proclamation of EEZ was wrong? Do you have anything else? You want to tell us? In conclusion, I would like to say that of course we will vote for the agreement. We are consistent with our positions. Sadly, however, it's going to stay on paper. And that will be your responsibility, not ours. Your responsibility and not the Greek solution! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u143	The last of the rapporteurs, Mr Arsenis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we expect you to apologise to environmental organisations, movements and those who have described traitors in your speech in the committee, once again the speech you have made through social media. You have had the opportunity and you have not condemned the statements made by your rapporteur. You see, however, that the climate that you have created has already passed on to your members, it has already passed into society and is being led at the moment to characterize their political opponents as serving foreign interests. That's where you're responsible. And if tomorrow there is an incident with people who move nationalistically against environmental organisations, you will have a moral automobile. That's why I'm asking you now to withdraw. You're bringing us to ratify an agreement on a pipeline. We ask you to cancel this agreement and withdraw your environmental bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The secondary cycle is completed. Minister, you have the floor to conclude the debate. Warm request for a brief intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I think I was detailed in my first place. The dialogue, which has continued and which I have followed, has actually moved in the same pattern, with the same arguments. I feel that I do not have anything new in relation to what I said from the Step before and during the debate in the committee three days ago. I would like to thank the colleagues of all the parties - and those who are voting for and those who are voting against - for their contribution to the dialogue. To say, simply, by closing down, I feel very pleased that things have come so that I too can be personally linked to a historic project. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is hereby declared at this point: 'Following the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus, the State of Israel, the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on a system of transport of natural gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened and that the voting procedure begins. It is a good request that the rapporteurs and the special speakers remain in the Chamber, because they should finally sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u147	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u148	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, appear on the screens of the Chamber and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u149	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: ‘Repeal of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the Republic of Cyprus, the State of Israel, the Hellenic Republic and the Italian Republic on a system of transport of natural gas from the Eastern Mediterranean to the European markets’ was accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u150	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u151	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-14-S1-commons.u152	With the consent of the House at 16.47 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow morning, Friday, May 15, 2020, at 9 a.m. on parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions debate.
