ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Continue the debate on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura, presented by the Chief of Officerial Responsibility and President of the Radical Left coalition Group - Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras and eighty-five Members of the Group, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the list of speakers. Mr Pericles Mantas, Member of the Messinia of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us see a little bit of what is happening today, at this time, at the moment we are talking about, for our fellow citizens who have banks and the Greek public. So those of our fellow citizens who have the debts they cannot repay, are faced with the seizures of their property. They also have frozen accounts usually from the State, from the tax office and from the insurance funds. They are unable to repay their debts, so they are all subject to a process of expression by creditors in respect of their seizures. There, of course, is not even the first residence excluded. In other words, they lose what they do not have, and if the property that is liquidated is enough to cover the debts, it is well. If it is not enough, they continue to owe themselves, not having the opportunity to move their lives forward, not having the opportunity to do something new to enable them to cope. Can they get income after that? And, of course, they can, but unfortunately, since their debts have not been eradicated, creditors continue to make the rest of their debts necessitate, thus leading to a process of permanent bankruptcy for the whole of their lives. What will be the case with the law that we have brought to Parliament and regarding the Banking Code? You are all focusing on the part of bankruptcy and you do not mention this particular provision, which is the most important of the bill. For the first time, everyone who owes, by an ex-judicial mechanism, to regulate their debts, to the banks, to the public, to the tax, to the insurance funds, to forty-seven instalments, that is to say, up to twenty years. Those who join this arrangement also save their property, not only their first residence, their entire property. Those who cannot join in this framework of forty-five instalments, it is clear that they have been bankrupt and, for these very people, they are given the opportunity if they are to liquidate their assets, to be able to put their debts out in an express procedure, from one to three years, so that they can start their lives again. I'm really wondering what's wrong with you so much? What has caused you to react so much? Do we not all want a definitive, sustainable and realistic solution for debts to each debtor? We don't want that? But why did SYRIZA make this proposal of distrust to the Minister? First of all, I understand that you may not believe her either. Only four members of the opposition are here this morning - morning, to support the motion of censure. You seem to have lost your conversation this weekend, because otherwise you had it figured out. It is obvious that you have done so to come out of the introvert, which has developed into the innermost parts of your party. I understand that. You have a good political reason, you have an inability to talk to the citizens and listen to you, you are in a political deadlock. However, the worst part of all is that you have decided to return to the age of "not everything", of insurmountable populism, at a time that unfortunately cost our country a great deal. Two days now, with the debate on the bill, but also with the debate on the motion of censure, you are accusing us of being with the few, with the banks. And I'm wondering, you haven't seen anything in a year now? All that the Minister of Finance, along with the government and the Greek Parliament, voted for the citizens, for the middle class, such as the 9% reduction in the tax rate is for the few? Is the tax increase for the few? Is this a 22% reduction for the few? Is this a fall in income tax at 24% from 28% too? Is the reduction of insurance contributions for the few? Is the suspension of payment of VAT on the building, the reduction of VAT on priority goods and on the focus, and is that for the few? You who were supposed to be with the many what did you do for four and a half years? You taxed everyone and everything, we increased VAT on all kinds and the focus by ten points, we abolished the EKT to the pensioners, those who were supposed to hurt all these years and put 27% in insurance contributions, to drown the most creative thing in our society. So your hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is overflowing. You've built a political career with populism and lies. And when I talk about populism, let me show you Mr. Tsipras, because I think it is the monument of populism in our country when he was protesting outside the tolls in support of the 'I don't pay' movement. We'll come here to remind you of it every time you hypocritically speak. You also built a career with lies, because you're saying it wasn't you who voted for the lifting of the first residence that you, however, were. And it was you who sent the MATs to arrest your ex-boyfriend, Mr. Lafazani, when he was trying to interrupt all the auctions that were taking place. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Pericles Mantas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we'll be here to remind you of all this. You chose to sludge the Minister of Finance at a time when the government is fighting internally and abroad, at a time when our national issues are at such a turning point. Instead of putting back even there, you are putting your Members in the European Union - supposedly - sending prizes to people, hooded pseudo witnesses, so that you can claim something better. We fight the economy as a result of the pandemic. That's not where you put your back. You can dive into every measure we have announced, just to make yourselves a good one in the ears of your voters. We are also fighting in the health sector. And there, you are ironing out the measures we take, triggering all those who react so that they do not apply them. That's who you are. That's who you were. We know you, but above all, the Greek people know you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Eleftherios Avramakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to the Step of the House and addressing the Greek people. I'm addressing him. I'm addressing the retired person. I am addressing the small and medium-sized businessman, the free trader, the civil servant, the worker, the frontier worker, all of them, natural persons and households. I am heading to awaken their consciences, to activate their reflexes and to mobilise any internal forces they have in the context of resistance and reaction to what is coming. And what is at stake is his own life and perspective, is his home and his property. Mr. Stavura, honestly, do you feel proud of the bill you're bringing to the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u5	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u6	Gentlemen of the Government and Mr Mitsotakis, can you really see the Greek people in the eyes without undermining the gaze and without feeling any signs of shame about the fact that through a fast track process and a pandemic you are bringing such a bill that actually divests the entire movable and immovable property of the Greek people, which you lead to forced bankruptcy, liquidating mobile and immovable property? I believe and believe that, if anything, with any suspensions you can have, in the face of them, take responsibility and apologise. Because you bring it and blame us in the midst of a pandemic that we oppose the government in these circumstances. You bring this period of pandemic, the multi-faceted and multi-level crisis that the country lives in - a three-fold crisis, with regard to the treatment of the health crisis and the pandemic of the coronary, as regards the economic recession, which takes place as a result of the pandemic and the pandemic and the policies that you are implementing, and much more so in national matters - a bill which has not dared even in the years of the Memorandum of Understanding, to bear when those governments were pushing and extorting from the troika. You bring it today in contrast to what is happening and what we live in. At the same time as divesting the property and liquidating whatever mobile and real estate concerns the Greek citizen, the household, the natural persons, small and medium-sized businessmen, you are giving millions of euros by mobilising loans from entrepreneurs and shipowners. You're the ones who brought graceful arrangements for bankers. You are the one who creates this whole context so that today the Greek citizen lives in insecurity, at a time when we are really facing serious and great problems. You feel the need to bring a law that touches the household, the natural person, the businessman. Because small and medium-sized enterprises have reduced turnover today. And this was made clear by the President of GATT, in the context of the consultation and hearing of social and productive actors, that 81% of enterprises currently fall under and can enter bankruptcy law, because they have serious business issues due to turmoil. The natural households are hammering. They've really lost money, wages, incomes. And you come and call them at this juncture, within such a suffocating framework, so that they cannot afford to go into the matter and lead them to bankruptcy. I think - and I think - that it is wrong to choose both the time and the way you bring it. We're all judging. You will be judged for this choice. At a time when you do not give any money to public health, which you do not take up healthcare staff, doctors and nurses, who in schools did not do so - we did not increase the number of classes, you did not recruit substitutes, you did not reduce the number of pupils in the departments - at the same time as in the public transport, you did not go to the bus market and driver recruitment, so that this pandemic wave can really be dealt with in this second phase of the school, which is very preoccupational - you do not assume your responsibilities. You can't keep finger-to- fingering the Greek citizen. You can't target the new guy. You can't say it's always the fault of others. In dealing with the first phase of the pandemic, you said we did it. And you did it on the basis of the popular will and responsibility of the Greek people. Today, renounce your responsibilities. What for? You have to go out and tell the world: “Yes, we may have made a mistake. And we made mistakes in all this way of management. And today, we are living what we live." You are bringing in a provision at the same time as your own indebted parties do not enter into the logic of the law you are tabling. For them there is another way to deal with. Do we want to give Greek society this message? Is that what we want to say? Do we want to say that our parties, although indebted to them, will make them regulated or will they never, as Mr Georgiadis said, but do you, Greek citizen, you, small and medium-sized enterprises, you, a natural person and a household, will you be forced to go to forced bankruptcy? I think - and I think - that they are not honouring anyone. If we want to be credible, and if we really want to build a confidence in this political system and what we serve from a responsibility we have to be more responsible. We all made mistakes. We recognize them, too. We may not have achieved what you're saying. We didn't really break the memoirs. But we really tried. We pulled the country out of the memos. We've achieved specific goals. We left a 37 billion-dollar pillow that you are using today at a difficult time, while you deceived it. So I want to think we're all gonna be a little more responsible than this whole story. And I want to believe that you will understand and stand up to circumstances, because the Greek people will really not forgive us. He won't forgive any of us at this whole juncture. The first residence is a sacred thing for all. You must understand that, Mr Stavoura. The tile is a relationship that the Greek citizen does not negotiate. That's why I think you'll find them in front of you. In conclusion, I would like to say what Abraham Lincoln once said and is indeed, the quintusy of politics: "You can make a few laughs for a long time. You can make fun of a lot of people for a while. You cannot make fun of everyone and forever." Be sure that your political deadlocks will appear very soon. And even though you are pleased about your demographic picture, I think - and I believe - that your fall will be short and with a steward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u7	The Member of the New Republic, Mr Zoe - Zetta Makri, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you have started very fighting, and you have come to an apology, I will tell you that, yes, I will look the world in the eyes and vote against the motion of censure and I will vote in favour of the bill by Mr Staikoura, our Government. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, sixteen months lies the New Democracy in the government and SYRIZA in the opposition, after his four successive election defeats, regional, municipal, European and national elections. The President of the repeatedly defeated Officer of Police has chosen for his own incomprehensible or rather incomprehensible political reasons to interrupt the debate in plenary, putting forward a motion of censure against Minister Stakoura and saying: 'This is how we will be forced to come to Parliament and Mr Mitsotakis who is hiding'. Mr. Mitsotakis, who was at the same time addressing a complaint to the Greek people about the pandemic, was accused of hiding from the political leader who recorded the sad negative record of responding to parliamentary questions at the rate of 3.5%. He answered 11 of the three hundred nineteen questions put. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, by applying his favourite tactics, 'no' to everything - it is very recent and very revealing that the vote against the amendment to compensate the affected 'January' farmers - has chosen to table a motion of censure against a government minister, preventing the debate from being concluded in plenary and overcoming constitutional and parliamentary predictions. Amidst the acute national issues, the alarm for the second wave of the coronary, the universal satisfaction of the outcome of the Golden Dawn trial, the Criticism ends its parliamentary practice, adopting the excellent and not everyday opportunity to put forward a motion of censure, in order to avoid the substantive discussion, in a bill that gives households and businesses the opportunity to settle their debts to tax, insurance funds, banks, loan managers and private creditors, in a holistic, productive, equitable and innovatory draft law that releases the productive forces of the economy, as it removes burdens and debts. Instead of saluteing the effort of the financial staff no longer to keep the problem of overcompensation under the carpet, instead of taking advantage of the obvious anxiety of the ministers to improve the arrangements - after the debate in the relevant parliamentary committee, the ministers of the government have tabled seventy-eight improvements - SYRIZA is attacking a leading minister, the Minister of Finance, forgetting that during the days of the Minister of Finance it was Mr Varoufakis and their political delusionaries. One-and-a-half year after the New Democracy's victory, which is extended - longer than the election campaign - the acceptance, with almost all of the polls finding that 1/3 of SYRIZA's voters support it, the Civic Anti-Policy recalled in the merciless years of its political youth in 2012-2014. Like then, so now, the lack of strategy leads to revolutionary exercise, the lack of proposals in sterile opposition, its introvertibility to ignoring problems. It accuses the Ministry of Finance of the group that mocked the flag with a slogan "no house in the hands of a banker", which led to electronic auctions, which Mr. Tsakalotos described as important, not only to have good banks but also for development and social reasons, with Mr.Janakopoulou and other prominent executives taking the cheek and stressing at that time the need for the best functioning of the banking system and the transparent procedures of electronic auctions, which were under the absolute control of the government and the state. And it is, I imagine, sad to remind you that Mr Panagiotis Lafazanis was led by the government of his old comrades to justice, bored with charges of blocking auctions. He reminded us, however, by saying and asking, "Why, as a government send Alex, without mercy, the MATs and the sinful Department of State Protection and Democracy, to strike ruthlessly and to record your former comrades, who were fighting to save first residences?" He also noted that the fight for the protection of the first home had become a peculiar offence at that time. SYRIZA, this time he will not feed the political reports with news against him, since the production of politics has been suspended until further notice. The SYRIZA who attracted but did not assimilate executives from other spaces, often executives serving individual ambition, is today conducting political intervention. The opposition statements made on each issue, from the management of national issues and the treatment of pandemic, to the new bankruptcy code, prove uncomfortable, lack of serious alternatives, absence of a strategy. Obviously, the jointing of opposition to the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is not easy. International sober, liberal, reformist Prime Minister, whose good preparation, dynamic start-up and course symbolic and substantial changes have turned Greece from country to country - model, is characteristic. As far as verbatim I mentioned, they don't make SYRIZA's life pleasant. They make it difficult to redefine its policy, maintain popular rhetoric and its failed policy in the memory of the citizens. They do not allow for his own government's experience to be forgotten. The motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, does not hide the duplexes and controversies within the SYRIZA Police, tax collectorship, delusion, fucking, wild, but unbelievable, of political speculation. Fortunately, the parliamentary procedure allows us to vote against it, strongly rejecting such paradoxical tactics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u9	The MP of the Change Movement, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, rather than talking about the motion of censure, I will speak about excellence. Because today's government came to power as the government of the perfect ones. He came to power, saying that he has a particular plan and solutions to the big problems of the country. I don't hide it, I'm a fan of excellence for very specific reasons. First of all, because in my mind the perfect ones keep their promises. But you, after sixteen months in the government, have proved that the plan you promised was never there. Because until now we have seen nothing of the real problems of the economy, work, education and of the health. You insist on the account of excellence, but ignoring the elements and numbers, ignoring the poorening of society. Between March and June, ninety thousand people were found out of work. 12% of the country's workers receive a maximum of EUR 200 per month and 32% of the employees are paid less than the basic salary. It is clear that the health crisis and the policies of the government also lead to a violent internal depreciation of workers' incomes. We stressed you as a Change Movement from the beginning of this crisis, that you need to take serious measures to support the unemployed. We have told you that you must strengthen employment and we have made concrete proposals to you. You ignored us. In my mind, the perfect ones assume their responsibilities. They don't blame society for their own inadequacies. In my mind the excellent ones boldly recognize the works of the previous ones, they do not fit them. In my mind, the perfect ones don't do what they blamed their opponents for. Your excellence, however, looks like the moral advantage of SYRIZA, which today for micro-political reasons is attempting to bring unscrupulous polarisation back to society, tax-free yes and no, in order to survive, of course, politically. Ladies and gentlemen, the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, unfortunately, had the sad first with the lowest per capita GDP in all the Greek regions. In purchasing power units in 2017 it was only 46% of the European average. Thrace is the poorest part of the region. The region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace has an almost twice as much agricultural sector as the country, a total of 7.1% compared with 3.7% and a much larger public administration. The industrial areas of Thrace have been literally grounded by the padlocks of the last ten years. The region, based in particular on agriculture and public administration, has been unable to develop dynamic sectors with low added value. Tourism didn't help. However, in view of the establishment of the Intergroup on Thrace I have recently submitted to the Government's financial staff a number of proposals that are absolutely necessary and realistic to mark the way out of its development tide. However, how can we be optimistic about this prospect, when even compensations that are legally and fully documented by the authorities themselves, or by the farmers affected, poor producers of Thrace, particularly tobacco producers, refuse to pay the government here? Then he talks about excellence. I have stressed many times in this Chamber that the financial support of thirty thousand producers in a small and very small lot in Rhodope, on the presumption of mountainous and disadvantaged mountains, is a condition of survival and a one-way street. To that end, for the Minutes of this House, I am tabling the proposal that I have already tabled to the Intergroup Committee on Thrace on farm-specific support for farmers in mountain and disadvantaged areas in the country. It is not only about Rhodope, of course, but also about Rhodope. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister of Finance, Thrace without specific development incentives, the country without developmental thinking, without strategic planning reflected in the implemented government policy, will not be able to overcome its chronic development backwards and will continue to be financially removed and bleeded out. I have therefore asked for the region of Thrace, which has significant development problems with a growing trend of deindustrialisation and the growing tendency to abandon traditional holdings in the primary sector, production and livestock sector, to provide for specific tax arrangements to ensure the competitiveness of products produced in the primitive sector and processing and to shrink the gap with large markets in the centre. For example, the idea of creating a transport equivalent to Thrace's products and businesses could be discussed in the standards of the island regions of Thrace. It is, in fact, sad and outrageous that a region such as Thrace and other poor regions of Greece, with so many advantages, such as its geographical location, its abundant rich sources, their human potential and their multicultural composition, the proximity of huge markets, remain unexploited. It is clear that the problems for us are not found in the faces, but in the policies pursued by this government. And because we are opposed to these specific political options, we have tabled specific proposals on all these issues and on the government's general economic plan. But you choose to be deaf, not to accept the proposals. For all these reasons, we do not give a vote of confidence to the persons who exercise them, like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Hatzidis Anastasios, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA has taken over the position of Antipopulation, is unable to develop dynamic alternatives for the economy, for society, for the country. It has often tried to set the political agenda, but so far it has not succeeded. Usually, he's following developments. And because he is obviously aware of it, in tabling the motion of censure against Mr Stakoura he wants to prove to his constituents that he is allegedly taking political initiatives and that he allegedly retains the exclusive prerogative of social sensitivity. Sadly, however, Opposition today is working on the institutional process of the motion of censure, in order to slowly forget the inner-party turmoil caused by SYRIZA over recent weeks. And you are now doing so, ladies and gentlemen, at a critical time for national issues, at a time when we must send out a message of national unity, a message of national responsibility, and especially now that the new wave of the pandemic, unfortunately, has come into the country. So let us be clear: the government does not bring no bills to it. All legal procedures are followed. The institution of Parliament is protected. When public consultation has taken place, there have been comments from all the relevant bodies, when the committees have discussed the bill in detail, which is exactly the problem? Where's the irregularity you've been complaining about since yesterday? You are accusing Mr Stakoura and essentially the government as a whole of a bad economic policy. So I remind you, in 2019, SYRIZA handed over the economy with a public debt to almost 180% of GDP, that is, at the same level as it received it in 2015. Receive the economy with growth of 0.7% and within just one year you turned it into a recession, while in the European Union growth rates were running at an average rate of more than 2%. You were the ones who suffocated the economy into suffocation with Baroufakis-type negotiations and with your ideas against investment. Unfortunately, we and the Greek people remember them. So remember the rest? The poverty of the middle class? The overtaxation? The insurance contributions that evacuated? The 50 billion private debt that has happened over your days? The twenty-six thousand electronic auctions? This is the real bankruptcy of the citizens. This is the true social adventure you are now referring to in your text against Mr Stakoura with the motion of censure. So you blame the Minister and the government for analgesia. However, this government has brought tax reductions, HICPs, insurance contributions, VAT on specific items and extended electronic transactions to prevent tax evasion. We would also have had a further reduction in taxes if the coronary pandemic had not taken place. But even in the face of this unprecedented economic crisis, the Mitsotakis Government has been effective. In order to address the epidemic and its economic impact, the package of measures will reach the end of the year 24 billion in favour of households, workers and businesses. The ESS was strengthened by recruitment and new modern equipment. For example, the beds at the ICU were five hundred fifty-seven, now one thousand and at the beginning of next year we will have a thousand two hundred, i.e. we will finally reach the European Union's average. You are accusing a government that has successfully come out seven times on the markets, drawing EUR 16 billion. You are accused of a government which has achieved the lowest historical cost of borrowing in the country of 1.15%, a government that has raised the economic climate index in the country to the highest position in the past twenty years, a government that has retained the recession, due to a coronary, in the first half of the year lower than the average of the euro area. We don't say that. It's called ELSTAT's evidence. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are putting forward a motion of censure on the grounds of a bill dealing with high private debt, a bill that has a development mark, which responds to the citizens' constant request to protect the first home, the one that you abolished in 2019, and which solves the problem of household overcompensation as a whole with a new out-of-court debt regulation mechanism, which reaches up to two hundred forty-fifths. You are indirectly against a number of provisions which lay the foundations for regulating the debts of the genuinely vulnerable social groups, those in need. They give a second chance to the honest debtor, a chance to continue working without losing his licence to pursue his profession. They allow the highly indebted taxpayer to get rid of his debts at some point and finally make a new start, a new start. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that caused the motion of censure against Mr Stakoura helps the debtor to regulate his debts, save his life, gain the opportunity for a sustainable solution to his debts, so as to escape their perpetuation. We all know that the current institutional framework leads many children to the deprivation of their heritage if they escape the debts of their families. Now, then, the second opportunity entails a real, a new start for everyone. The motion of censure therefore falls into the void. It turns out once again that you do not have serious alternatives. That is why we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u13	My colleague, Mr Pierre, has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Elisabeth Skoufa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stavoura, Minister of Finance of Greece, we tabled a motion of distrust against your face. The reason is fundamental and obvious. You are the first Minister of Finance in the post-government history of the country that has the courage and the courage - let me say - put wide - its signature under the lifting of protection of the first home. You must at least admit that you have failed to negotiate with the European partners. I would like to believe that you did not deliberately seek to enter expressly for the first time in the official Eurogroup communication in December 2019 that any overdue debtor is committed to all of his property and that the country expressly commits itself to voting for the lifting of the protection of first residence. For the first time this happened and it was expressly formulated in December 2019, first time on your own minister. Not to mention the obscure text of the Eurogroup communication of June last year, which you signed, in order for the country to get EUR 748 million, where it is clearly stated that the first home is being removed. I'll put the text in its original form in English. But we are tabling a motion of censure and because you have failed your economic policy as a whole. You have failed to support 81% of Greek SMEs. I would remind you that the recession began in the last quarter of 2019, when there was no coronary. And if it hadn't preceded the successful economic policy of the SYRIZA government, the year 2019 would have ended with quite a recession. The recession, of course, was raised in the three months of Lockdown in the spring, in order to reach the record of a recession of 15.2% in the second quarter of 2020. SYRIZA doesn't mention it. This is on ELSTAT's official website, accessible to every citizen. You didn't hear all summer tourist businessmen, accommodation owners, small and medium-sized hotel owners, restaurants, tourist bus agents, hotel and catering workers, when they told you they needed liquidity to meet the full vacancy and the 25% full-time maximism they had all summer. All you have done is grant loans - loans again - when we left you 36 billion euros a pillow with the sacrifices of the Greek people and when we have repeatedly submitted you costly proposals for the necessary strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises in liquidity, with an unpaid advance and when practice in other countries - members of the European Union are precisely liquidity injections. I'm coming to this bill. For the first time, I repeat, there is clearly the lifting of a basic right of all Greeks, of all Greeks, of all residents and taxpayers of this country. They are losing their home expressly and clearly and, indeed, they are forced to enter, not on their own request, into bankruptcy law and they are liquidated all their real estate, even when they have a non-performing loan of more than EUR 30,000 and cannot pay 40% for six months. But that's not all. Remove them for three years from any income they can have and exceed EUR 611 per month, that is, a month, a sum that is much below the amount of the irresponsible account. How, Minister, can a former householder with a family live at 611 euros a month, having lost his home? Because another point that Greek citizens need to know is that anyone who has more than EUR 7 000 has absolutely no protection, no support from the Greek state, which he supported in the difficult memorial years of taxpayers. You are telling us that you are supporting the most vulnerable citizens, namely those who have less than EUR 7 000. How do you support them, Minister, when you set up a purely private body, not even a legal person governed by private law, so as to have public authority over them? A purely private body will take our homes, which if we have less than EUR 7 000, we will rent them with rent that this private body will impose and, indeed, at a variable interest rate for twelve years. If we can't pay the rent for three months, we're totally losing it. We stay completely outdated. What's the second chance, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u15	Please, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u16	Yes, Mr. President. I'll be done. The tragedy that you bring with you, is that after these twelve years, you will be able - listen - listen - the former owner will buy his home again at a price equal to the commercial value that the private operator will set, without taking into account what he has paid in the years when the rent was served and without calculating these rents for twelve years. Minister and government in the New Democracy as a whole, you have a basic political plan, business delinquency, the sudden and violent death of all small and medium-sized enterprises. There is only one solution, take back the bill, go renegotiate it with the European partners and go back only with the protection of the first home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u17	My colleague, Member of the New Democracy Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Kyranakis, will now speak and alter, every five or six Members, one will speak, because today we have several ministers who have to speak. So, after Mr. Kyranakis, Mr. Papathanassis will be given the floor, according to the list given by the Government Secretariat. Mr. Kyranakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is, in fact, very ironic to table a motion of censure to the Minister of Finance of the New Democracy, the political leader who then, as Prime Minister, chose for the respective position, for the Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, the Minister of Economics, i.e. the Capital Controls, whom he sacrificed in that summer, the unforgettable, 2015, because he asked him to do so by Mr. Soible and Mrs. Merkel. And what did he ask for in return? What did he ask him to do all the time? To sacrifice not only Mr Varoufakis, but to get his entire programme back and replace it with a new, completely its own and, of course, a memorandum, which included auctioning and all that we remember you have voted on, one by one. Who would implement this new policy? Who would implement these auctions? Mr. Chakalotos. Mr Tsakalotos was indicated by the partners, the troika and the Germans, in order to be able to implement this policy, which you accepted, you voted and you implemented. In other words, the Marxist Mr Tsakalotos, whom we all remember smiling that morning on the New York Stock Exchange, declared the opening of this truly 'Marxist' process. They are, therefore, putting forward the motion of censure against Christos Stakouras. So let's go see a comparison, since the debate on the comparison of the finance ministers has been opened. Your Economic Ministers, gentlemen of SYRIZA, increased taxes, increased many unjust taxes. Christos Stakoras, from July 2019 until today, has brought to the House and voted for more than ten tax reductions and tax incentives. Your own ministers, when they took over and with what they said in those years, the spreads had reached God, the country could not borrow for too many years. And even when you were very successful in lending the country from the markets, interest rates were more than four times what the country achieved with the Minister of Christos Stagira and 1,152%, which is a historical record of borrowing for the Greek state bond. Your ministers, at a time when growth was running in the Eurozone and almost all the countries were growing. They've achieved a very big recession. Now that we have a global pandemic and the Eurozone is going through this huge crisis, what has Greece achieved and what has Christos Stagiras achieved? To have a lesser recession than the Eurozone average. Your finance ministers wanted, in one way or another, to hold hostages to those who they owe. Christos Stakouras brings a bill that gives two hundred forty doses. When did we hear forty doses from you, gentlemen of SYRIZA? When did you bring such a measure, which could give a second chance and free, not hold the hostages of those who owe it? Your economic ministers came to the government and took their seats with a pre-election commitment: No home in the hands of a banker. Christos Stakoras came to the government and took the place of the Minister of Finance, implementing a pre-election commitment. That is our difference, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and that is why we support Christos Stakoura. I think it's really amazing that SYRIZA's party. It is in favour of entrepreneurship, but against businessmen. It is in favour of investment, but against investors. It is in favour of banking, which you have been talking more and more about lately, but against bankers who approve this banking liquidity. You are in favour of shipping, but I also heard my colleague just before he was against the shipowners, these bad people. You ask for higher wages and constantly mock the low wages, but when an investment comes, and when a business can pay really higher wages, then you do everything you can to get it out of it, so that you don't come to Greece, so that you don't get a higher salary, so that you're the good 'patterulus' who owes you, and those who are hostages, and those who have low wages, and those who are unemployed always will give a state allowance. We differ, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we want the skilled one and the one who tries to be rewarded and the one who is more skilled and he is trying more to pay. And he who for some reason found a difficulty in life and found them dark, may and without it being the fault, we want him to have a second chance, to be able to repay his debt in a depth of twenty years and thus be able to make a new start. Even one of the largest businesses on the planet, whose business half of you have your cell phones and you keep them and you read the news, was very close to bankruptcy and was able to make a new start and reach the top. So that's exactly what we want. We are not coming to vote on a measure we do not believe. We believe in second chance. We believe that every human, every natural person, every business, every householder has a second chance in his life, and that's why we support both the bill and Christos Stakoura. I conclude, Mr President, by recalling an historic press conference, then, Minister, which was on that escrow account. Do you remember that? And I remember when Mr. Tsakalotos spoke, after Mr. Tsipras, saying "Mr. Tsipras's finances improve faster than my Greek." This interview ended with the announcement of an escrow account, which was finally completely nonexistent. The way you do, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you will be inexistent too! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, may I have the floor to give an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u20	Yes, but be careful, I will give you the floor for two minutes, but because there will be constant references to your name every time you report, you will not be asking for the floor for two minutes, because Members must also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. I promise I won't intervene another time. I didn't do it yesterday anyway. A second placement will take place tomorrow night, after the Chief of Officer's Response. But at least one failure was heard and something was filed in the Minutes, which was said in at least the wrong way. You said, Madam President, that at the Eurogroup of 11 June I, at the Eurogroup, committed myself to lifting first home protection. You didn't read it right. It says that the shape that existed would expire at the end of July 2020. You're messing with it. The protection of first residence does not exist horizontally - I will repeat - since February 2019. Then came SYRIZA to do so and made a scheme supported by the then military opposition, to cover only the “red” borrowers by the end of 2018 with strict income and assets criteria covering up to 90 thousand households. Let me just tell you. If someone "red" on March 1, 2019, had no protection. To understand it differently. We supported this and fought the Eurogroup - it is true - so that this scheme will be extended for four months and then for another three months. The original six-month provision you made, we added it and made seven more months. So, here the commitment is that the current scheme will end - this figure, not the protection, the shape - at the end of July. And we came back later and made the program "GEYRA", which is much more successful than their own program. That's for restoring the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u22	Mr Papathanasis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the government with society is fighting against an invisible enemy, while the government, our country, is fighting international law with an ally against Turkey's unilateral provocative aggression and while we are striving to support the economy with measures that are rewarded by the international economic community through the historically lower interest rates in our bond issues, at this very moment SYRIZA is choosing to table a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Stikoura, a minister who fully expresses government policy and which has successfully translated policy into actions. So the proposal is timeless, it is hypocritical and it is just trying to create impressions. But we have a great opportunity to present the reform work carried out by this government, which operates at a single and productive frequency in fifteen months which has the responsibility of governing the country. So we have the opportunity to refer briefly to a part of the work that has been done in the Ministry of Development and Investment. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis began its work determined to change Greece and turn it into a country of solidarity, social cohesion, modern and attractive. A country based on extroversion, digital technology and innovation. Minister for Development and Investment Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, my colleagues all at the Ministry, political staff have, from the outset, set as our central objective the creation of an environment that supports entrepreneurship. So political leadership, in absolute cooperation, is working hard to open up a pro-investor horizon where business plans can start, mid- and end, no molds remain. The Investment Act in Greece marked a new relationship of trust between the state and the investment community. We have given more flexibility to both strategic investments and to the process of certification, integration and start-up of the production operation of an investment. We facilitated investment in business parks. We opened up the market and gave private individuals the right to be certified as auditors for the first time. With the National Development Programme we have created an integrated system for the design, monitoring and control of the interventions financed from the national funds of the Public Investment Programme. We set up a Special Service for the Management and Application of Industry and Trade and Consumer Protection Sectors. The task of this service is to achieve the objectives of the country's industrial upswing and strategic choices of the Ministry. For the first time, we have placed industry at the centre as a national development pillar. We have simplified and modernised the institutional framework for the establishment and operation of businesses. We connected GEME with the FBI, while allowing the creation of a company with a model statute. We have more than doubled controls and restructured the control mechanism with the establishment of an interservice market control unit and more effective market control at all stages of the movement of goods and services. We started the process of digitising the trademark books and simplified the procedure for granting the right to use the Greek trade mark for PDO products and geographical indication products. We have adopted a safety regulation and specifications for the operation and controls of various locomotives - parks, etc. We have set up the governmental supply chain committee for the formulation, supervision and revision of the strategic planning of operations in the field of the supply chain. We have set up the Governing Committee on Industry to formulate the national strategy of industry and the recovery of manufacturing activity. We are planning and preparing the simplification and modernisation of Corporate Law and the reform of the legislative framework for public procurement, i.e. the reform of the law. 4412. We are planning the new NSRF 2021-2027 with the total European aid that together with the Recovery Fund is EUR 72 billion, according to the Pissaridis Plan. We are geared to investment in infrastructure, digital transformation, the 'green' circular economy and the upgrading of human resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis has come to show that the foundations we build are strong. We have succeeded in record time in rapidly authorising units that have displayed flexibility and restructured their production in species of increased need, such as antiseptics and masks. We shielded the Greek consumer through the 'e-Channeler' platform, ensuring transparency in product prices and open data. We have offered financial instruments to businesses to secure liquidity and to shield jobs. Guarantee fund. Interest subsidy for existing business loans. Loans with interest-rate subsidies by way of ‘TEIGHT II’. A repayable advance. All financial instruments have been activated through the use of the available resources of the ESRB. We proceeded with the revision of operational programmes so that we could include them. With hard work and appropriate interventions Greece now tends to become a strategic investment hub. Our efforts already bear fruit. We unlocked a lot of investments that were stuck on paper and it's not just Greek. We proceeded with the implementation of a resolution plan for the Elefsina, Syros and Saramaga Shipyards. We approved fourteen strategic investments totalling EUR 1.8 billion, fourteen PPP projects that have been completed in society, more than three hundred and fifty-eight business projects in the development law with an aid amount of more than five hundred million euros. Recently, 15 regional civil protection centres were subjected to PPPs, an investment of EUR 120 million. We issued two notices of the development law and continue to speed up the integration and subjection of investment projects into the investment development law. We bring Greece closer to digital technology with many reforms. It is not only ‘MICROSOFT’, it is many high-tech companies that wish to settle in Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the work of the government is reflected in European and international indicators. With regard to the absorption of the ESDP resources, our country has only reached one year from the 12th to the 8th with a view to further improvement by the end of 2020. Greece’s competitive position for 2020 rose by nine positions and is in the 49th among sixty-three economies since the 58th which it held in 2019. In the direct foreign investment index for 2019 we managed to go up by six positions and were in the 29th place since the 35th of 2018, and never in the 2009-2018s, we had not exceeded the 32rd place. As regards the use of European funds to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, we were in the first place in a number of areas benefiting from measures to support social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work with stubbornness and determination. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has set high targets, is incompatible with moderateness, is not afraid, is not bent. His mandate is to reform, to go against bureaucracy, not to stand in words but to actions. We're working for today and tomorrow of youth. We don't stop at false rifts of counterpopulation, we don't stop in front of fear of breaking. We are determined to create a Greece example in Europe, as was an example of pandemic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The era of Kyriakos Mitsotakis will be recorded as the era of the reform of the Greek lightning, without ideological claws, where everyone will have the same chances, where children who today have no obstacles to their lives, where women and men will share the same prospects, where the state will be the real support of our fellow citizens who need it. There is no question of us thinking about where we want to go. We have already started and will arrive where every Greek woman and every Greek wants and where our country is worth it. We have already started for 15 months, and we will be there, the Prime Minister, promised it, promised it by every Member of the New Democracy and as a body, every minister of this government. That mandate was given to us, that is what we are serving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u24	Good. Colleagues Mr Synthrakis, Mrs Villalis, Mr Skouriakos, Mrs Bakadima and Mrs Giannakou will follow and Mr Pierrakakis will then speak after Mrs Giannakou. Every five Members of Parliament will enter a minister. So Mr. Synthrakis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA's proposal of distrust to the Minister of Finance of the Government of New Democracy is not at all random at the time given. It gives both the convenient opportunity to serve on a bad-looking show to cover the fact that all together agree and grow up with the implementation of deep, classic, inhuman policy, which unravels the people and the profits of capital. The Government of New Democracy has caught the thread from where SYRIZA left it by bombing with countless anti-popular bills, the focus of which is the new Banking Code that gives the green light to the banks and the funds to unleash the people, to put all his property, to bind his income and to make him a slave to the banks. It is the new hit on the fixed daily working time, the further reduction of employers' insurance contributions, the further privatization of insurance, the persecution of trade union action with the new trade union law. The Government of New Democracy and SYRIZA, in shared roles of two-party rotation in government power, such as the former New Democracy and the PASOK, are in absolute chords. They have committed themselves to the bosses, the European Union and the OECD to serve the capitalist development that involves smashing incomes, grabbing people's homes, suppressing popular and neo-liberal mobilisations by putting on plaster popular, trade union and social rights. For the governments and parties of the supreme law capital is the service of capitalist profitability, i.e. the interests of a low minority against a large social majority. Yes, you are both co-responsible for the crime you commit against the overwhelming majority of the people, through constant memoranda and cuts, anti-grass measures, European semesters, to strengthen the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. So this is why the JRC condemns and votes against the policy of the New Democracy Government today, of the SYRIZA which has ruled over the past five years and has put the carpet on the anti-Salan Router, in New Democracy, and today it'shoots' to be accounted for later as it says, as well as the other parties who in one way or another participated, supported or supported this deportable crime, loyal to a European Union of robbers at the expense of the working class, of the poor people. Unfortunately, you are all facing the health and life of the people as a cost. The poor popular layers in the neighborhoods and villages when they are drowned by floods, when they are burned by fires, when houses and property are destroyed. This tragic situation cannot simply be attributed to severe weather conditions. It is the result of the criminal policy of all governments: New Democracy, SYRIZA, formerly PASOK, who did not care to plan and shield with modern anti-military, anti-nuclear projects and infrastructures in the country, to organise civil protection and all services. Equally great are the responsibilities of regional and municipal authorities, of their officials who have gathered in these policies, and who do not have the priority of protecting the people, as demonstrated in Mandra, Matti, Evia, recently in Carditsa and the Ionian Islands, the other day in Crete, Hersonissos and Malia, in the most populous tourist areas, with four and five-star hotels, it has proved that there is absolutely no plan, no protection, no prevention. It is completely inexistent, because precisely the priority of the state and of all governments was never the people's needs but the profits of capital. The same work is happening when with the coronary, when with accidents, when with floods and disasters. Unfortunately, the same and worse we will have in a situation of earthquake knowing that our area is one of the most seismic regions in the world. And yet, decades of the entire school buildings and other public buildings, they are uncontrolled, ready to collapse in the first possible earthquake. And who is responsible for the maliciousness? For you, of course, the people and youth. It all goes back to individual responsibility. Individual responsibility, protection from the spread of the coronary. Individual responsibility for whether there will be a cleaner at school. Individual responsibility if the crane breaks down the worker's head in LARCO. Personal responsibility you are unemployed and cannot draw up a CV or application to the OAED. Individual responsibility if they find tragic death from floods, fires and earthquakes. And all this to hide the real guilty, cover up the huge state responsibilities and criminal policy of all governments and the parties to capital, their representatives in local government, a local administration - a company that is loaded with new flexible, anti-grassroots tools, such as the new development agencies, anonymous companies, so that better positions can run business projects in waste management, cleanness, green electricity, renewable energy, water, downgrades the role of municipal and regional councils and reservoirs in monarchs. You dismantle neural building and technical works services and deliver them to anonymous companies, to development agencies, turning social structures into reward services. Working rights are being violated by generalizing flexible working relations, instead of taking measures to strengthen these services and structures, instead of taking measures to relieve employees of tourism, food, commerce, the unemployed, the dismissals, the self-employed and the self-employed, the poor farmers, the disabled, the artists, who have been affected by the pandemic and the government's restrictive measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The municipalities are now new taxes to ensure funding. In order to meet their new responsibilities, they do not hesitate to charge them to the people's families with increased taxes and taxes, with seizures even for debts of 500 euros, forcing people's households to put an increasingly deeper hand in the pocket for projects and services that the state should provide. So the real question for the people is whether he will agree to live in the nightmare of permanent bankruptcy to multiply the profits of big capital or whether he will strengthen his struggle to get real breaths, to cross the flag counterattack of his own needs. The answer is certain to be given by organized indiscipline. The popular reproach of your parties and your governments will be judged on the streets of the struggle with a intensity of struggle through unions and mass media, with the most extensive coexistence of the labor world with the JRC, with the concentration of forces against the true enemy, who are their monopolies and their authority, the state that, at every opportunity, shows its hostility towards the people to shield the interests of the employer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u26	Mrs Maria - Eleni Soukouli - Viliali has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by the President and Members of the Officerial Representation against the Minister of Finance Mr Christos Staikos is nothing but a desperate attempt to escape SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras himself from the political isolation that Greek society has placed them. It is nothing more than a hopeless attempt to escape from the inner frictions of the Officerial Opposition, which is unable to play the role that the Greek people have given her. It is nothing but the continuation of a hopeless effort by SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras to plunder and divide the political and social life of the country, looking for political fields where the only weapon that he knows to use better is indifferent populism. After the outcry of the Greek society for the vulgar headline of "AYIS", where it tried to divide Greek society and unfortunately to seduce the most historic moment of Greek democracy, they continue unsatisfactory in the same pattern of political practice. They decided to go on the road to unexploited impression, of course, without regard to the difficult situation in the country as a result of both Turkish provocativeness and the global health crisis. Are you told anything that is happening right now, ladies and gentlemen, or your idea of self-conservation, won't it let you see it? At this difficult juncture there is neither idealism nor selfishness. At this difficult juncture, responsibility is required, moderation and coolness are required and instead we are watching a theatre of the absurd with protagonists SYRIZA - and not only - where we see them shouting, screaming, tearing up their garments for the properties that will be lost, for bankers who will rob, for the small and medium-sized ones who will disappear, for the memorial to come. And one wonders: Is it possible even today, especially SYRIZA, to have such a political courage that he thinks the Greek people have a memory of goldfish? Is it possible for those who effectively abolished the protection of the first home, those who ruthlessly taxed everyone, those who gave out ninety years of national property in the supermarket, those who made thousands of auctions at the same time screaming 'no house in the hands of a banker', those who in the famous negotiation were redundant loans and overloaded businesses, while writing and selling books on seismicism and others? Yet it seems possible, with the only difference, that they can no longer fool anyone. You can't get over any of SYRIZA's colleagues. The government, despite the difficult situation, is fully committed to continuing its reform work with unreserved pace. He won't hide the problems under the carpet. Its aim is to address the chronic and structural problems of the Greek economy and society. And yes, private debt is a problem and needs to be sorted out, so that the productive forces of our country are released. And that is what has been done by the legislation that has been the occasion of making the motion of distrust. But beyond that, our aim is mainly to produce, but we will also introduce new wealth so that Greeks and Greeks will not be found in insolvency again. And if they finally find themselves, they can recover. There's a way to recover. We are constantly creating a pro-investor environment with favourable tax treatment for businesses, so that investments can come and that new, qualitative and well-paid jobs can be created. We started the major reforms in the digital transformation of the state, the transformation of the Greek economy into a green economy. We have created a pro-investment framework for investment in technological innovation so that all of this can be left to the money they come from, both from the Recovery Fund and from the new NSRF, as well as from the other financial instruments. And finally, to change the country's productive model. This is the road that will lead us from the heavy winter of the pandemic to the spring of the Greek economy. With work, with deeds, not with easy words. But you're investing in splitting and insurmountable populism. While you do this, we will invest in social confidence internally and in our credibility abroad. We, together with the Greek women and the Greeks, will make it. You, paraphrasing Kostas Varnalis, cowards, fateful and unwitting in return, perhaps expect a miracle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u28	The floor will now be taken by my colleague from SYRIZA, Mr Panagiotis Skouriakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Stavura, don't take it personally, but your party, the New Democracy took you into her neck. It gives you the suffering to recommend a bill hostile to the problems of the Greek people. What are you doing here? You are insolvent of natural persons and households. For the first time, it is possible for natural persons, not only traders, to go bankrupt, and for the first time also forms part of the bankruptcy of a bankrupt part of the debtor's future income, as well as the principal residence, even of natural persons from households. A professional will go bankrupt, like a dealer and a householder, like a business. He will lose everything for the next three years - at least - at least. He won't be able to do anything. He won't be able to pursue any professional activity, because the money will go away immediately. I mean, he's going to be professionally dead. Unfortunately, Mr Stakoura, you are obliged to support a new bankruptcy law that does not provide any protection at first residence. Any protection under the responsibility of your Government has ceased to exist since June. You said yesterday about the 'GBERRA' programme. But this is not a first home protection programme but a temporary grant of the instalment of the borrowers affected by the pandemic. What New Democracy is now giving to the citizen is a choice or losing his home by auctioning or losing it by dividing ownership to a private operator and converting it from owner, from housekeeper to tenant. After twelve years as a tenant, he should double pay the house he has lost to rebuild it without compensating for what he had paid from the original loan or what he paid 12 months. Unheard of. Who benefits from this? The banks are also benefiting the private body to which the houses are going. They benefit from the expropriation of the people's residence, because the houses in Kolonaki are not at risk. It is not true that the first residence is protected until 31 December, as Mr Mitsotakis alleged in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. The New Democracy did not legislate any horizontal protection and even rejected SYRIZA's amendment to protect the first residence until the end of 2020. No popular homes were auctioned on SYRIZA. The non papers shared to you say that SYRIZA introduced electronic auctions but they do not tell you that no popular residence was auctioned on SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u30	...Lafasan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u31	With Lafazani you will go. I know. You're all prosecuted. You've taken the little card. You'll all say it. Put on likewise. We know. That's how you'll go. With Lafasan, fine, congratulations. So social groups are narrow from the weight of not only the pandemic but also its mismanagement. The government tried to turn pandemic into another success story, but the truth is ruthless no matter how much you're trying to create communal passes with the media of the famous Petsa list. Professionals, workers, pensioners suffer. And more people of culture, a living part of our society. Already your 2020 budget reduced by 15 million the available funds for culture in relation to the last budget of the SYRIZA Government, 15 million less, despite what the Minister of Culture said last night, who joined the Greek Parliament by denouncing SYRIZA that he ignores the basic rules of governance. He made the black white here. Who? The Minister whose Prime Minister asked us to borrow the sculptures of the Parthenon. And he didn't tell him that this would mean the recognition of British ownership. It is the Minister who, in collaboration with the Minister of Finance, left the workers in modern culture outside the support measures. He stated that the anonymous, non-profit businesses in the spring would take 2,000 euros. My colleagues from these companies are still waiting. Since spring, they've been waiting for these two grand. The Minister is the same that will remain in history as the Minister for Culture of direct awards. A lot of heterogeneous, too many. It will remain in history as a Minister whose days Mycenes, Minister of Culture, have been burned, denounced to us that the people of culture have been invisible to us. That's what he said last night. We understand their anxiety. She sees them every day in front of her streets in her offices outside where they unite against her policy. SYRIZA, from the beginning of the pandemic, has submitted a full costly programme to support culture. All these artists, small businessmen or employees in the field will be forced into the new bankruptcy law and will be permanently out of the labour market, many of them at risk not only of their career but of their pensioning. In Eastern Attica, where I am active, small growers lost their cut because you closed them open markets. Transport problems. In Saronidas the CCFs came from Chania and Rethymnon with a subsidy. Of course citizens pay their ticket. The comms are cutting off, so the metro is delaying. The children of the Municipalities of Rafina - Pikermiou, Marathon and Markopoulos no longer have the 50% discount on the use of the Attica CBEL to and from school. Schools are without cleaners, without teachers, while children are stacked in the middle of a pandemic in small rooms. We delivered as government health centers operating as small hospitals. Now in eastern Attica, the CIVID Health Center, Rafina and Kalyvia, is completely subordinated to nursing and medical staff and medical equipment. To conclude, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that this Chamber has been suffocated with the smell of your arrogance. An arrogant hundred and fifty-eight seats that enables you to vote laws - enemies for the Greek people. Your bankruptcy code is not a medicine. It's a pharmacopoeia for the people. Retire him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u32	Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the second day of the debate on the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA against the Minister of Finance, a proposal which has substantially frozen the debate, thus passing an important bill, a bill - tombstone of the middle class and a forehead of the fifth memorandum that you are working on. This seems to be the case if we even see colleagues' placements yesterday and today but also the surrounding atmosphere in the press in newspapers and not just. You are accomplices, gentlemen of the New Democracy and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to the impoverishment and financial impoverishment of the Greek citizens, who are now forced to lose their first residence. And instead of taking time and discussing such an important bill, you managed SYRIZA's ladies and gentlemen, with a communal cohort to throw the ball in the platform. You tabled a motion of censure against the Minister who brought the bankruptcy bill. Right? Do you really want to look into the eyes and can you tell me that he did it without having the full, but full coverage of the Prime Minister? Can you really unresponsively claim that a Minister of Finance can function and legislate or discuss or negotiate without having the support and without informing the Prime Minister who has appointed him? Honestly, can you support this? I challenge you. Tell me an example of a Minister of Finance that has done so. There isn't. Why, then, do you not propose mistrust as a whole against the government? Is Mr. Stakoras your problem or government policy? Now you are suddenly being cut to protect the first home and the red loans. Remember Laws 4336/2015, 4346/2015, 4605/2019 that gradually left the borrowers without any cover? What signatures do they bear? The signatures of Mr Tsakalotou, Mr Stathakis and the other SYRIZA Ministerial Council. Can we look at the evidence? In 2017, auctions increased by 64% compared to 2016, according to official notary data processed by ELSTAT, while the increase in seizure deposits almost doubled by an increase of 97.6%. If we look at the evidence for the next few years, it's just as depressing. So, from the seismism you promised, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we have spent the years of your administration in electronic auctions and even in fast track procedures. Today you are presenting a motion of censure against the Minister, who is doing nothing but going on with the policy you started. Because that's what the New Democracy is doing, it's continuing your own policy. You started Hercules, they're continuing him. You brought the fourth Memorandum, they'll bring the fifth one. So it is enough with both the courgettes and the communication policy. If you didn't want to see the citizens go out on the street, get poor and keep the country in a debt colony, you would never have done "no", "yes", "yes", you wouldn't have codified, but you would have been proud to negotiate with the people next to you. Now in vain you are seeking to be atonement. You are not 'white doves'. And let's be honest. Of course, this does not mean that the New Democracy has not done its best, in order to worsen and weaken the citizens even more in these fifteen months of its governance, with bankruptcy law being the climax of the effort, thus setting the framework for the transfer of private property of many to the predators, completely expropriating the property of our fellow citizens, especially the small and the weakest. Why should we not forget what the credit bill brings, since the motion of censure has only interrupted his debate, which will continue Monday after the process has been completed. It brings the automation of the divestment of popular first homes and small and medium-sized shops, even bypassing any implication of any alleged protection. This is, in fact, a real roller to destroy the property of many and, at the same time, to provide many privileges and gifts to their creditors. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have been following an endless 'fighting' and a 'ing-pong' between New Democracy and SYRIZA, it is assumed that who cares for the citizens, for the debtors who cannot satisfy and repay their loans. Let us be honest with each other and with the citizens who listen to us. None of you care about citizens and especially about the weakest. Your only concern was that you both look obedient and good students of the troika. The opinion and the blow to your lenders' shoulders' shoulder, and you were interested. Nothing else! No support for the middle and medium-sized classes, no support for our weakest fellow citizens, only for election and post-election artifacts and full support for banks and oligarchy. Now, indeed, we have a government in name of only a neoliberal party, which comes with the bankruptcy law to abolish the property of the individual. Ladies and gentlemen, you have probably forgotten the importance of individual ownership, liberalism and neoliberalism, considering the right to property as one of the ten economic freedoms, while for neoliberalism the economic argument should be consistent with social ones, with the aim of developing the free and self-regulation market becoming an instrument for the development of society, forming an integral part of the overall social organisation. I wonder, indeed, how much this key element of neoliberal ideology, which you say is being promoted, reflected and found a place in the bankruptcy bill of the New Democracy. In conclusion, as MARA25 we have shown from the outset the communication time of the motion of censure, although the New Democracy is not unjustified, as for the last 15 months the game of oligarchy, domestic and non-domestic. We will not stop highlighting the fact that you are both partners in the attempt to further pooren our people and that with the memorials that SYRIZA brought and the New Democracy will bring the status of slavery perpetuate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u34	The fourth cycle is over. Here comes the fifth cycle. Mr Marietta Giannakou, Vice-President of the New Democracy, will speak from the Bureau. Then Mr. Pierracakis will take the floor. Mrs Giannakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I do not really know what is more alarming during the parliamentary procedure in which we have entered: the motion of distrust against a leading member of the government, or whether the fact of the total lack of responsibility on the part of the Anti-Population Officer? I think that the parliamentary debate will highlight the Greeks' distrust towards the specific position of SYRIZA. Even during periods of intense controversy, the choices of the individual opposition were always aimed, as a minimum, at promoting the public interest. Because the Constitution offers these powers of government control, precisely to protect major issues of democracy and of public interest. At this juncture, the combination of developments is such that it creates more unfavourable challenges for any party today exercises governance. It is not an exaggeration to note that the juncture is unfavourable and the moments are one of the worst of the economic crisis. The pandemic is threatening the health and even life of all social groups every day, and its development is extremely uncertain in the near future. Although the country is part of the small group of countries with the best performance, we must be vigilant, because every human life is unique, and we must prevent, as far as possible, the deterioration of the health of those who are ill. At the same time, we have been in the cyclone of the worst crisis in Greek-Turkish relations since 1974. The country is making a huge diplomatic effort to defend national sovereign rights, to compensate for the attempt to demonstrate the oppression and domination of the Turkish leadership. For months, it has been in an unprecedented operational preparedness for the real prevention of aggressive actions. What is the message that, as a Parliament, we want to send to society, which is currently suffering from anxiety about what is going to happen? That we're quarreling for controversy? It is regrettable that, in other words, instruments of democratic control must be used against the common democratic logic and, ultimately, at the expense of the public interest. I would remind you, of course, that in the past you have attempted to use the right of censure in excess of the constitutional order. Even if you strongly disagree with the content of the new bankruptcy code, the ordinary parliamentary procedure has already offered you the opportunity to confront. So that's it. You wrongly appeal to the government to harm weaker households and businesses. Instead, their protection is upgraded with new tools, which lead to sustainable solutions for all. It is hypocritical to claim these, and your actions as government have caused mass auctions and overtaxation in particular of the small- and medium-sized class. There's no better argument about this than the complaints of your former comrades. In conclusion, the Minister for Finance welcomes our absolute confidence in the work that it is doing and the specific legislative initiatives it has taken on the Banking Code. On the contrary, it receives an informal but strong vote of distrust, which we call for the constitutional responsibility to stand on the big fronts of the country and not just the government. The pandemic, national issues, recession are the major problems of the country at the moment. To stop, therefore, being in disharmony with society and with its intense concern. As a Parliament, we must send out the message that we have a comparison of positions in favour of the public interest and not for party competition, that we are controlling the government to bring more efficient solutions and not to undermine the confidence capital, which at the current juncture must be maintained high. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u36	Minister Pierracakis is called to Stepma for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. The nature of the juncture that we are going through is well known. It is a threefold challenge, health, economic and national. And in this context, since the first time that this motion of censure has been tabled to the person of the Minister of Finance by the Civic Opposition, the unequivocal question has been raised. Because this energy, because now. No one, of course, disputes the institutional right of Officerial Responsibility to take such actions. Besides, the contrast is always useful if it is fertile. This is also the shape of dialectics, position - contrast - composition. But there is a precondition for fertility, for fertility not to be barren, not to be sterile. So in question, here is the rationale and feasibility. That's what's questioned. Because the government here, in the face of the responsible Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, is doing its job very simply and is thus closing one of the hundreds or more loose ends of the state that are running, with a solution that meets all the standards. It is permanent, it is clear, and is intended to protect those fellow citizens who have been exposed to unforeseen circumstances, without at the same time opening a window of opportunity to strategic mispaids. No one can deny that this proposal has been an obligation for the country for many years now to establish a stable system without having fulfilled this obligation. The word unfinished, in this sense, is a key word. It is a word that may be the dividing line that runs our political system. On the one hand it is those who choose to solve these loose ends running ahead, and on the other, those who are trying to perpetuate them. Today's debate also gives an opportunity to discuss and assess the progress made in the country's digital transformation, assessing what was said more than a year ago in the government's programming statements and seeing where we are right now, just over a year later. And because things are good to be quantified, I start by submitting a country assessment by the IMD, the International Institute for Digital Competitiveness Assessment, which shows that in one year we have climbed seven positions, from the fifty-third to the forty-sixth place, to a global assessment. [[At this point, the Minister of State and Digital Governance, Mr Kyriakos Pierracakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] This has been done as a result of many coordinated efforts, which I would very briefly like to present. A year ago we talked about 'gov.gr', how we would create the single digital portal of the public, how the state would start again through the use of digital technologies, be one and be understood as one. We started with five hundred agencies that already existed. We have spent six hundred and fifty more in a few months of operation, given that the portal has been in operation since March. We have said so many times, the coronary was a digital accelerator, but it was neither the cause nor the cause of this effort. Simplifiedly, what was another great loose end, made it necessary. Why? Because we have essentially worked, we have used an existing strategy as a means of respecting social distance measures. Here again the numbers speak for themselves. Over two million digital documents have been issued. What are these two million documents from the gov.gr? It's at least two million visits that haven't taken place. And that is very important. We are, of course, fully aware that this is not the final question. The final question is to move information inside the public instead of documents. It is, however, a first major and decisive step, which is already showing how our country is reflected in all these international indicators. ‘gov.gr’ includes services which are simple, daily. They make digital transformation, not postmodern or strange. It's the daily life of the citizen. It's the temporary driver's license. It's the authority. It's the responsible statement. It's the prescription of the doctor who's now on the cell phone. It is a series of things that help us daily and some that are also at the core of a state that respects its citizens, such as the EOPY compensation for the treatments, the treatments, the psychotherapies of young children or older. All this will continue, in fact it will be intensified, because the loose end here is too great. And within the next period, as the Prime Minister said, we will pass the thousands of services. It is an objective that we have set immediately. Local government will also enter this equation. There is, obviously, a separation of the levels of administration, but in the end the citizen wants to serve as a single service. And in telecommunications, of course, too much has been done. In the first quarter of next year, the country will pass in the age of the fifth generation networks, 5G. Interestingly, this is not the case. This is where another account applies. It is one of the few cases where I dare say that the country is innovating internationally. It innovates with a strategy which has been reflected in the recent law of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which works, using the spectrum auction that will be completed by December, to give birth to an innovation ecosystem, to give birth to a market of many companies that are related to these ultra-high-speed networks. And that's not telecommunications. It's everyday again. It concerns health, transport, all areas of economic activity and will be of great value. There's a lot of loose ends. It is true that when we talk about digital transformation, the word unfinishedness is horizontal everywhere. It concerns the pensions that need to be accelerated, and it concerns the tens of more bureaucratic procedures that we need more time to simplify, but we will do so. However, it is very encouraging, I would say, for both the citizens of the country and for the Ministry's engineers and for the people we are using, to see the OECD characterise actions such as 13033 during the Lockdown period as a global good practice to combat the virus, to respect the social distance measures, to see this type of change in international ranks, to see the Vice-President of the Commission see Mrs Westager reporting at a committee press conference that Greece is innovating digitally as well in 13033. I'm going to dare say that we're going to see it in the course of the 5G, this type of change. It is also interesting that we focus on issues such as digital skills. Nobody's gonna stay behind. No one should stay behind these changes. They'll be rapid, they'll be sudden, but the state will be taken care of. We started the citizens' digital academy which provides free lessons. He's in the government's digital gate. We already have more than four hundred thousand visits there and we have emphasised that everyone can freely train, learn new things. I would say that there are too many small actions, which together lead to a qualitative change. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] Digital transformation basically gives four major political signals: It reduces inequalities, in relation to the parent, in relation to the Greek-Christian who cannot physically go to public service, compared to all those who do not have time or opportunity, people with disabilities. It helps to make the state more efficient and to respect the taxpayer's money. Each euro counts more, because it goes where it needs to, without unnecessary procedures. It contributes to growth. We have seen the recent investment in 'MICROSOT'. This investment is self-evident, it has an autonomous value. It is important to place cloud infrastructure in our country. Her symbolism and multiplier, however, is greater. It is bigger because it shows how they are now starting to see us, how we get into an international map, how we can step forward - to build the country in line with the level of knowledge and capabilities of its citizens and businesses. And finally, it restores trust. Because citizens' confidence in the state in many things has been shattered in recent years, and step by step with this government, we see it restored. And that's important, and it's of great value. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying this. When we describe the work of digital transformation and that of the Ministry, we usually encode it in two categories. Category a, unfinished and category b, opening in the future. The first is much more than the second. This relationship needs to be changed and step by step - this relationship is changing. It's what the people of this country deserve. It is what we see in many other countries, and to a large extent it has not happened in the past, as far as these sectors of the economy are concerned. It's a mistake that needs to be restored. It is a mistake that will be restored, because we have the knowledge, we have the potential, we have the will, and in the end we must all build the country that we deserve. The same message applies to the economic policy of the government, and with these thoughts I declare my full support for the face of the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, and I call on you to vote against the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. We continue with Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. For a time when SYRIZA chose to table a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance. The question raised by Mr Gerapitris, in response to the proposal by SYRIZA, reiterated all the Members of the New Democracy to the previous Minister. Why this time, at this critical hour? In fact, some of my colleagues here in this House have taken the surprise of the Greek people, who, while listening to the news of the motion of censure, was very upset. And, of course, all New Democracy colleagues expressed the confidence that at this critical hour, 50 percent as a fist will respond to SYRIZA's challenge. Let's stand, first of all, on what this time is all about. It is indeed an hour, ladies and gentlemen, when Turkish aggression is escalating in the Aegean. Of course, it is time that the European Union, in its attitude at all times, discourages Turkish aggression and violation of its borders, European borders. I do not know how many of you agree with this finding, but Mr Mitsotakis certainly disagrees, because from a Synod to a Summit it comes to success, from a slap in a stronger slap, to a stronger slap in our eastern neighbour. Of course, I am asking myself, and I am going to dwell on issues that have already been published. When did the national position for the influence of the islands changed? Is the red line at twelve or six miles? "Oruts Race" moves on the Greek continental shelf, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs says, or in claimed waters, as Mr. Mitsotakis writes? And the last thing I saw yesterday in public and I'm waiting for his denial, was there a meeting of the Chiefs of the Armed Forces in Maximos without the participation of the allegedly competent minister? The responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, with which I am dealing with this matter does not allow me to continue with any further questions. However, from these questions, I gather topics that have dealt with publicity, no matter how much I look - and I look carefully at you - I do not see a hundred and fifty-eight in a punch. Let's come to the next item.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u40	I don't see MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u41	Continue, Mr. Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u42	But at this hour, is SYRIZA presenting this moment for the pandemic, waiting for a strong new investment wave and Mr. Mitsotakis will announce new measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u43	What is this motion of censure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u44	They don't respect the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u45	Don't interrupt. Mr. Igoumenides, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u46	I did not have any dialogue, Mr President. Please, I'm interrupted and I'm just stopping. So now, after the successes of the government, where is the time for our fellow citizens to take their personal responsibility? Yeah, I agree it's time for personal responsibility. And since it would not even take me the time to list all the facts, in fact, the parachute masks shared with our children, the masks that were not yet shared with our children, the stacking of our children in classes of twenty-seven students, the overall health risky and unprepared opening of schools, the different health protocols at different entrance gates of the country, and the healthly insecure and unprepared opening of tourism, the land that opens with the Secretary of State's announcement to quickly close their doors to fans before they can get in. All of this, gentlemen, is examples of personal responsibility, which even has a name, Mr Mitsotakis, Government of the New Democracy. But now did SYRIZA decide to make a motion of censure with this economic situation? Indeed, it is the economic situation and its course which the majority of our fellow citizens have the confidence that the difficult things are ahead of us. It is time that the Minister of Development states that we do not buy a thousand buses, because to buy a thousand buses we have to cut pensions. My first question, is there even a reduction in pensions that the Minister did not vote on? One, is there a pension reduction that he didn't vote for? Now did the pain catch him? Secondly, is the economy so good that a thousand buses are going to avoid crowding or are we cutting off pensions? It is indeed the time that, as the President of our Party, Alexis Tsipras, has said, the economic crisis creates new locks in businesses, new armies of unemployed people, new generations of red loans. And, indeed, I wonder: Why, gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you choose this critical hour to finish what was left standing by the mess? Why are your policies socially analgesable? Why is social analgesia registered in the DNA of your policy? Why don't you listen to the voice of society as it is, but deformed through the purchased communication wrapping of your political support. Look, gentlemen. We have tabled a motion of censure as a lasting manifestation of our confrontation with the social unaltered political picture that you have followed, the image of which is the bill you have brought. And it is true that the debate that has taken place, the debate that took place since the proposal, does not justify either of them or those of them. Even if anyone claims that in this period of time he's busy arresting the lieutenant of the criminal organization, we wish in this effort that he doesn't find before the 15-year-old students again. It is precisely the debate that took place that did not justify anyone to say: 'I did not know, I did not read, I did not understand'. All of you and one - one person will take responsibility, and all of you and one - will personally answer the Greek people and you will apologize to your beloved middle class for the lies you have said to guard its vote, but also the grim reality you impose on her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u47	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder why we are here today, because we are discussing this particular motion of censure against the Minister of Finance tabled by the Chief of Staff of Police on the grounds of the Banking Code. I'm trying and I can't find any other explanation for this timely and opportunistic choice of yours, I'd only tell you that it serves your micro-party logic. How desperate are you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to work on the parliamentary procedure in such a way? So big are your inner-party problems, which are much more important than the serious issues facing the country and society? Really, how desperate is Mr. Tsipras from the failure of his opposition tactics to use a legislative spirit that clearly protects and relieves our highly indebted fellow citizens to find the opportunity and try to make a show with fireworks and chips from the period 2012-2014? How desperate is Mr Tsipras to use a coup, which for the first time includes two hundred instalments for our fellow citizens who owe it, for a coup through which those who are bankrupt will cease to owe after bankruptcy and she will not be chasing either them and their children as they are doing to date, and for a coup that neither Mr Tskalotos nor Mrs Ahcioglou have made any particular criticism and have not even asked to withdraw? All of this for a cove that the following very good words have been heard about. Let me read them to you in word: 'I would like to say on behalf of the Financial Stability Fund, whose concern is to help maintain financial stability in the interests of the public interest, that we consider the bill as a good legislative initiative as a whole. Indeed, it provides a single framework, codify and simplify procedures that have been created over the last decade, as the problem of non-performing loans has increased.’ Who said these very good words about the bill? Ms Marika Frankakis, a representative of the Financial Stability Fund in the Committee, a member of the SYRIZA Political Secretariat, placed there in 2017 by Mr Tsakalotos. I really wonder, did this statement by Mrs Francakis, who is also a member of the SYRIZA Political Committee, go under the radars of Mrs Jeanette Tsipras? Because you do not have any illusions, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to serve Mrs Jeanette Tsipras' whirlwind against Mr Tsakalotou. He wrote it to him already. End and mercy! Yes, Mr. Chakaloto, I would say it is end and no mercy for you! And it will appear tomorrow in the discussion of the Heads, if Mr Tsipras continues to use expressions against Mr Mitsotakis, such as the ones that he expressed in the previous debate, whether Mr Tsakalotos would be differentiated or he would already be associated with the Politics line. That's the reality. For Mr Tsipras is not to be deceived, because he showed it the day before yesterday. He had the courage to go up to the Step of the House and say that we are demolishing the protection of the first home, saying that we are carrying out contracts in favour of bankers and funds. Who? Mr. Tsipras, who, on his government, established the electronic auctions of first home. You did twenty-six thousand auctions! Who? Mr. Tsipras, who was allowed to sell the "red" loans to the funds, without even the right to choose the borrower, as had been done in Cyprus, who, in his government, ceased the protection of the first residence and sent MMs to Mr. Lafazanis, when he tried to prevent them, which, in his government, had been seized in bank accounts for two and a half million. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have returned without shame to the method of opposition that you exercised between 2012 and 2015, when you bet on the indignation of citizens, terroristism and the fact that you had not ruled. But now, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, you have the truth and thankfully the people have a very good memory. That is why it no longer pays any attention to your koruna for demolition of the protection of first home and to your line "no house in the hands of a banker". Your opposition impotence has been seen for many months. You're trying to make two arguments. The first is that we do well in the New Democracy Government, but you would have done better - it is also our last fellow citizens who are listening to this - and the second is that much of what we do would have done, but you have not been able to make it. I don't want to be sad, but I don't think you'll ever have time! The people saw you, they gave you the opportunity and now they understand. I would suggest that for the good of the country you change opposition tactics and start today. Come and support Mr. Stakoura's legislation and, if you like, put forward proposals for improvement. That would show a responsibility. One of them - and I would like you to see it, Minister - would have been by law the suspension of the auctions for mainly vulnerable households until the start of the operation of the social acquisition and renegotiation of immovable property. That would give a relief and I'd like you to see it. So I urge you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to change opposition tactics. Change and stop taking advantage of the means of parliamentary control available to the Opposition. Stop creating false dilemmas and imaginary disasters. Come and coordinate with reality. And the reality, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is that the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in the midst of the second wave of the pandemic of the Koroniovius, in the midst of the material effects that this causes and mainly a critical juncture on national issues, comes and continues to produce positive government work, relieves society taxly from your burdens, strengthens entrepreneurship and manages the pandemic and the economy as best possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So stop dealing with the logic of 3%, stop meaningless and indifferent to society slogans and finally start offering good services at home and home. Otherwise, get ready for a long political winter, which will soon bring you back to the acquaintance, but it seems to be best managed for you, 3%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Golden. We continue with Mrs. Nadia Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on Friday, a motion of censure was suddenly tabled against the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura. This is, of course, an opportunity which Mr Tsipras has the right under the Rules of Procedure. However, it is worth seeing the moment and the reasons for it. We were on the last day of discussion of the Finance Code bill and it was evident from dozens of Members of all the wings, except the Couple, that the opposition was against the unacceptable bill brought by the government. All sides of a repulsive bill, condemning thousands of people and businesses, had become evident. The Members of the Change Movement had denounced the government's choices and made more than clear that we would vote against it. It was clear that the bill, whose title bears the false name'second chance', did not actually provide a real second opportunity. The truth is, this is a bill of zero opportunity for businesses. This is a bill - a gift shot for households, a tombstone for natural persons, a gift for banks and companies dealing with debts. In fact, Mr Stavros found the moment to attack the PASOK, saying he led the country to the rocks, as if we do not remember the financial derailment, the launching of the debt and deficits in the five-year Karamanlis, which, when he saw where he led the country, escaped. We are talking about the age of false evidence and misleading. So he escaped, throwing away the hot potato at the PASOK government, enjoying a distance of unleashing his historic responsibilities from him and his resignation, but also from all the wings he acquired and left-handed "caramanlic" component. So he threw the hot potato in PASOK, which took over the titanium project to save the country, pull the country out of bankruptcy, lifting all the weight on his backs during the crisis. So let both the Minister and some others stop playing with history, with reason and, ultimately, with the very truth. Let's get back to the new bankruptcy code. We are living in a period of crisis and uncertainty in the economy. Small and medium-sized enterprises and professionals, in fact the major victims of developments in our economy in recent years, have been in an extremely unfavourable position. Many practically went bankrupt. It's just that there wasn't a formal confirmation. This is the bitter reality, ladies and gentlemen. At this time when business is having a hard time and is increasing fear and insecurity in the face of unemployment, of course, because of the coronary, the government, instead of doing what is self-evident, supporting the market, supporting entrepreneurship, is once again choosing to strengthen the few and the strong, leading the rest to lockdowns. In short, we are talking about a bill that has the false title of "second chance", but is exclusively committed to massive bankruptcy, offering many advantages to creditors and banks. How can a professional have a substantial second chance, when his bankruptcy is included in incomes, which are actually created after bankruptcy? Is there any logic in that? Rather, a second chance for creditors to be satisfied is that under Article 92, the income of more than EUR 540 is in bankruptcy. Banks will now be able to request the bankruptcy of employees, the bankruptcy of pensioners, the bankruptcy of unemployed, without specific social criteria and specific provisions for vulnerable groups on health or age criteria. Are you going to vote on this bill, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? With this bill, clearly the only one who benefits is banks and, of course, you are also reinstated for collecting companies. You aim as a government to reduce the number of small and micro-enterprises and the survival of the colossals, deconstructing the PASOK structure with the n.3869. So that was the view of the Movement of Change, but also with little differentiation of all the parties to the Opposition, but with the fact that we as a Change Movement did not remain a simple complaint, but we tabled concrete proposals and comments, as we did during the consultation, but proposals that the government wrote in its earlier shoes. So what does the proposal of distrust against Mr Stakoura really offer? Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing on the substance. And society's truth is that it is indifferent to our debate, because it is mostly concerned about the coronary, it is afraid of what will happen in the Aegean Sea, it is afraid that the economy will go. On the contrary, the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA clearly does many things. First, it clearly makes hypocrisy with no limits to Officerial Response, which, up to a year ago, had left as a government completely unprotected the first residence. The statements made by Mr Lafazanis, your former partner, are absolutely indicative. Is there anything else he needs? I think not. Secondly, it clearly makes Mr. Tsipras' desperate attempt to rally his party, doing anything, now that polls show him 18% -19%. On the one hand, he does well for himself and for his party, but it would be nice not to work neither for the House nor for its procedures, using the student amphitheatre tactics. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, it shows that Mr. Tsipras does not care about the government but about the game of impression and fireworks, effectively turning to a type of opposition that reminds us in 2001, in 2014. Quite simply because if he wanted to send a message against the government, he would not submit a motion of distrust against a single minister but a whole against the government. Isn't this a bill by Mr. Mitsotakis, a bill by the entire government? In this way he manages to make oil both Mr. Mitsotakis and his Government, as if all the problems were Mr. Stagiras. And of course, he does something else. In fact, while it is questionable whether it will also win any point, which very unexpectedly, gives the Prime Minister a gift to strengthen collapsing and collapsing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u51	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u52	I should like to close with the fourth point in my speech, Mr President, by saying that the Change Movement cannot leave it a problem. With this tactic, Mr. Tsipras seeks to show that the contrast between anti-population and the bill is a costing behind his initiative. Hallucinations. The forces of progress and of the centre-left have nothing to do with populism, regularity and a sterile complaint. So of course, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement is taking part in this debate, denouncing both the government and the opposition. Of course, we are involved in revealing the truth and, of course, at the end of the process, we will vote against the entire government rather than against a minister, as SYRIZA does. But that can, that's what it does.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u53	Let me make a reminder. If each colleague takes one more minute, he will not speak to the seven colleagues. Since the ending times of today's and tomorrow's procedure are specific, you warmly observe the seven minutes. We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Katsafados.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the communication movement of the Chief of Staff Responsibility to table a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance is another monument of political hypocrisy by the party of Official Responsibility. I say that it is political hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, and I could count on the recent statements made by the Chief of Officerial Opposition in Thessaloniki during the exhibition, where he said that it would be irresponsible for him, at a time with such important national issues and during such a pandemic, to raise tons. I could stand up to even his internal opposition and the problems he has. However, what deeply regrets me and I see through this move of the Chief of Staff, ladies and gentlemen, is his attempt to relive the same work. His attempt to repeat history. But for all of us who are in this Chamber from 2012 until today, we should remind the Chief of Officership that many times history is repeated as a farce. SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras are a bad political prank, which unfortunately experienced the Greek people and separated from this tragic rule, which we had in the last five and a half years from SYRIZA, after several of its former partners had left. But do you know something, ladies and gentlemen? When we saw Mr. Tsipras in 2012 sitting and telling all these lies, we thought he was a young Minhausen, who is trying to make his lies and ideas come true. At that time, Mr. Tsipras in 2015, after this "superior" negotiation he made, returned and told us that he was not Minhausen, that he had delusional. But today, seeing that it follows the same strategy for such an important issue as the private debt, in relation to what he said from 2012 to 2015, in relation to what he did from 2015 to 2019, and what he says today, the title to be awarded to Mr. Tsipras is the political mobster. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. Because SYRIZA has since 2015 done nothing about the private debt. And as Mrs Ahtsoglou said, SYRIZA's rapporteur yesterday, from this Step, only increased it by 20% in the five years that SYRIZA was in power. How much you should have increased it, ladies and gentlemen. A debt that is for many decades has been able to raise it only 20% and reach EUR 234,000,000, a debt that is a bronze for the economy and for society. What did Mr Tsakalotos say in the autumn of 2015 on 31 October, in this Chamber? ‘The recapitalisation is currently being carried out along with the treatment of red loans. Therefore, at the end of the year, i.e. 2015, the recapitalisation of banks and red loans will be completed. What happened? Absolutely nothing! Something's happened. The banks were recapitalised. Banks that at the beginning of 2015 amounted to 34,000,000 euros, sold to individuals 800,000 euros. This was the success of SYRIZA's recapitalisation. Indeed, Mr Drasakis - and I will put this to the vote in the Minutes on 21 December - said that we are obliged to proceed to auctions, because if we do not proceed to auctions with the level of red loans - which is the largest in Europe - the country has, we are at risk of a new recapitalisation. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have said what SYRIZA has not done. But let's say what he did. SYRIZA, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, proceeded with the horizontal abolition of protection of the first residence in February 2019. That's the reality. And we all remember Mr Tsipras' visit to the Banking Union, and to the benches that shed on the bankers who said to them: 'Please very much, until the elections we do not have a first home auction, because I will not be able to bear the political burden'. What else did SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen do? Date of birth: 1967. I will return to the Minutes nine months before the 2015 elections, what Mr Tsipras said. He said the Samara government has agreed with the troika to give banks to foreign speculative funds and domestic oligars. What does SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras tell us today? Doesn't he say the same thing again? But five and a half years he was the Prime Minister of this country. We're seeing the same play again. That is why we are telling you that you are hypocrites and liars, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did Mr Chakalotos say, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 November 2017? He said the auctions were important for social reasons too. That's what Mr. Chakalotos said, no matter how far left this statement sounds to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that in SYRIZA governments what you can claim is that you were auction champions. Over twenty - five thousand auctions took place. You were champions in the bank accounts. Over four million eight hundred fifty thousand seizures were made in our fellow citizens' accounts. And you come to us today and you move our finger. And you come today, which is imperative as ever with a country and an economy that cannot afford to resolve the private debt of the country, with an economy that again receives credit, since three days ago its 15-year bond was at such a low loan rate. And now that we have to relaunch this economy - and we want, because we are facing all these important problems head-on, and we want to provide solutions to these problems - you do not come to table a proposal. You come and say the same thing you said by 2015, but you did exactly the opposite when you were government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just gonna need a minute, Mr. President. You must therefore be serious, ladies and gentlemen. This bill, which was the result of a multi-month consultation and was also a result of corrective interventions by the relevant ministers and the committee and plenary, comes to deal with a network of protection that is, indeed, socially vulnerable, a situation which has eroded and is a brake on the Greek economy. The motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, which you have tabled, is not against the Minister of Finance. It is against all those who opposed populism, lies, easy words, great words. And all these will give you an answer on Sunday, ladies and gentlemen, rejecting it. But the most ugly thing for you is that you have been rejected by the Greek people themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u55	Mrs Theano Fotou has the floor from SYRIZA. Immediately, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum will be given Mr. Metarakis. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance as an expressor to the Government of New Democracy and accelerating the draft bankruptcy code, because it poses a real threat to the Greek people, a threat to the bankruptcy of all citizens, a threat to the confiscation of citizens' property, an extermination threat from the first home of each household. We tabled a motion of censure, because the government brings the pandemic media bill with the fears of the Greek people, warfare for death, war conflict and economic survival and through destruction to penetrate every household. For two weeks now, the Opposition and the social partners are trying to convince the government to withdraw this bill or change it. You're deaf. So we used this last weapon the House gives. And we see today that the opposition vote on the motion of censure and breaks the wall of the silence of the Pecha list, so that society can know what awaits it. But I am amazed to see all the speakers in the New Democracy today defending this bill in their 1/10 time. All the time, they've been exploring in lying about SYRIZA and what's going on. Well, first of all, I'll say exactly what this bill does. And finally defend it. For the first time, all Greek citizens can go bankrupt and not only large businesses. The pensioners, the civil servants, the households are going bankrupt. Everybody's going bankrupt. Secondly, the priority is the liquidation of movable or immovable property of anyone who is bankrupt and not the survival of the same or his business. Thirdly, it takes from the citizens what they owe, not only at the time of bankruptcy but then. He's getting everything they'll get after the bankruptcy. Fourthly, it allows banks only to initiate these procedures and never the citizen. Fifthly, it abolishes the protection of first residence for all, poor and medium-sized. Sixth, it mocks the poor that after they lost their home for twelve years they will pay rent, and then they will buy it in 2032 with the commercial value it will have at that time. Unless you patronize us at this point, then it'll be smaller than today. You don't count on what you've given for the loan or the rent. That was not done by any government, nor by Samaras. What is the meaning of massive bankruptcy in a people already bankrupt? It makes sense, because the Greeks have been investing their savings in housing over time, so that we have the highest percentage of private-owned housing in Europe and, on the other hand, a small percentage of deposits in proportion to our population in banks. This supposed anomaly corrects the bankruptcy code. Mr. Mitsotakis, this anomaly wants to correct, that is to take the Greeks' properties, to finally save what they have and do not have in banks. At the same time, it is a hand - with the other anomaly, that is, 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises - must now go bankrupt to make large businesses. The bankrupt people, ladies and gentlemen, have a fortune. You know that. And he has his residence. She invested in it, and she'll get it for you. He must not again invest his money in the roof and small and medium-sized family businesses - that is what Mr Mitsotakis said to us - because he must give his money to the banks in order to make investments. For the second time, exterminated the middle layers and not just the poor. Because it is what they lost from 2009 to 2015 -- it was your government in 2015 -- 36% of their income. They are the same layers that had taken the loans from 2012 to 2015, because you ask. They launched these medium-scales that the loans received their service from 62 billion to 103 billion. See the numbers of the Bank of Greece I will present to you, i.e. you have increased 62% during your time. Two. Government of New Democracy and Minister of State, Mr Mitsotakis. It was when one moved to five of the middle layers in the poor, eight hundred and twenty-two thousand of our fellow citizens moved from the middle layers to the poor. And those who remained in the middle layer lost 36% of their incomes. I'm filing ELSTAT's data. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theano Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They are the ones today who do not serve their loans and you will go bankrupt with this bill, with Mr. Mitsotakis Prime Minister. This is the new strategy, poor payers, as you will say in a few days. It is these middle layers that are ideal for bankruptcy law to be implemented. The middle layers go bankrupt for the second time and take the property. In the conversation, you've enlisted a four-acquisite scooter. First lie. SYRIZA had abolished the protection of first residence. In February 2020 - Mr Stakoras, Minister, does not deny it - he tells the institutions that protection of first residence will end in April 2020. The pandemic came in and it didn't cause. So to date, there is only the "GEVYRA" which is for the pandemic, for those who have problems with the pandemic, for those who have debts. So, what exactly did you change? What wasn't there that we abolished, since you're the ones who say there was and you would abolish it? Second lie. SYRIZA increased first home auctions and electronics. No one, but no one, auctioned for first residence. Bring us one. One! Third lie. The indebted households will spend three difficult years and then they will end and be relieved of debts, and today children are renounced the legacy of their indebted parents. The truth is that the law currently in force gives the right to get rid of debts without going bankrupt and losing their assets. The truth is that if the law is implemented, yours, Stakora - Mitsotakis, children will not be repudiated because they will simply have no inheritance. Fourth lie. The bankruptcy of natural persons existed in the law of Katseli. It is a lie, because the current regime does not go bankrupt by natural persons. Is there hope? We say yes, but not deceiving the second chance. Reinforcement of households now, emergency income for two million households, instead of taking them home, unpaid advance payments to businesses instead of going bankrupt and shutting them down. Now, protection of first residence real. We are voting on the motion of censure, and we must now promise that this law will not be implemented, that society will prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u57	The Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mrs Mitsotakis in sixteen months has been faced with multiple crises, the public health crisis, the crisis in our national affairs, the immigration crisis. With the consequences of these crises in the Greek economy, with the consequences of the public health crisis and the crisis in migration and it has been judged in the difficult circumstances, and the Greek people's confidence in the present government is evident, which will confirm tomorrow and the Greek Parliament, with the Government in 2023, calling for the renewal of the people's mandate. In its general policy and in the draft government that we are implementing for immigration, Greece implements a strict but fair immigration policy. Our country is no longer the main gateway to Europe, and that is a political choice. For the government of Mitsotakis Greece has land and sea borders, Greek and European borders, and knows how to guard them, applying and fully respecting international law. The national migration strategy has two clear objectives. Firstly, the substantial reduction in flows and, secondly, the drastic reduction in the impact of the crisis on local communities and now we can talk with results to the Greek people. Flows have fallen this year by 73%. The arrivals from January 1st are twelve thousand two hundred eighty-nine, while last year was forty-four thousand seven hundred thirty-four, and from these increases the third quarter is the first quarter. In other words, in the last six months, the decline in flows in our islands has been 96%, a total of 91% in the country. We did not want and we are no longer the gateway to Europe. I would remind you that in SYRIZA the flows were uncontrolled, and the 2015 open border policy led to a change of migration route to Europe from the Mediterranean line to the Aegean line. This year it has been reversed, because the Mediterranean line despite the Greek decline has increased by nearly 200%. For these reduced flows, we rapidly move on to the separation of other refugees, other illegally entering economic migrants and a major role in the acceleration of the asylum procedure, the two important legislative changes of the present government with Law 4636/2019 and Law 4686/2020, as well as the organisational changes made to the asylum service with emphasis on increasing productivity. For it is, on the one hand, a fundamental human right to respond quickly and fairly to asylum demands, but on the other hand, it is an essential obligation for the country to the citizens, because these Greek citizens as government are. We increased the decision-making this year by 82%. We have reduced by 36% the outstandings of the previous years, and there are no unfinished assumptions in the asylum service before 2019. There are no loose ends to the Appeals Authority before 2020. According to EUROSTAT, the Greek Asylum Service is now the second most effective asylum agency in the European Union. We did not want and we are no longer a wishing destination for illegally entering economic migrants. Also, in the past - until this year - our country has actually given us financial incentives for immigration irregularly in our country. We restricted the provision of allowances and accommodation to recognised refugees to one month after the final decision was adopted - this was in the past six months - and in conjunction with the speeding up of the procedure we effectively restricted the provision of privileges in a few months overall from several years ago, as was the case with the SYRIZA Government. Of course, for the first time since 1 June, we have clearly a positive balance of legal departures from our country, namely deportations, returns, arrival relocations. In the last quarter of our country three thousand seven hundred forty-six, and only two thousand four hundred and ten. This year's goal is to reach the ten thousand overall returns, deportations and relocations. The message is clear: Deportations of those who are not entitled to international protection, according to international law and European law. Of course, on the issue of structures with a slogan 'never other Moyas', we are moving towards an ambitious but realistic plan to create closed, controlled structures at the points of entry of our country, which will include a reception area, a closed detention area for those who are not entitled to international protection, areas of administration, health facilities, and, of course, they will have the latest security measures, double fence, entry-out systems, security of all residents and local communities. Structures to guarantee the protection of public health and public security with modern infrastructure. I recently came to the Greek Parliament and presented the completion of the ultimate transparent and open competitive procedure, with full financing of the European Union, for the creation of new centres in Samos, Kos and Lero, as imposed by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. And I would remind the House that in the SYRIZA, although hundreds of billions of euros have been allocated for the management of immigration, no convention has come to Parliament, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure for informing the competent Standing Committee. We are moving along with the European Union to create a modern structure in Lesvos, so that we can soon leave the provisional structure created in Montenegro. Of course, this temporary structure managed within a few days to deal with the humanitarian consequences of the arson in Moria. For non-governmental organisations we have created and operated a new framework for monitoring the functioning and economic activity of NGOs, and we distinguish those organisations that have really contributed to tackling the great migratory crisis from those that are moving outside the limits of legal behaviour, as you have seen from the retrieval recently formed in Lesvos. Of course, these NGOs that produce effective and real humanitarian work welcome this division. All these actions cumulatively have led to the substantial decongestion of our islands, of the five islands which in SYRIZA have lifted all the burden of the migratory crisis not only for our country but also for the entire European Union. That is not possible and will not continue. And they lifted the burden on SYRIZA not only because of increased flows but also as a result of the very slow asylum procedures - what we changed this year - but also the consequences of the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey of 2016, which led to the arrest of asylum seekers on the islands. This was a joint statement, the interpretation of which, unfortunately, the SYRIZA Government accepted for our islands. Our policy is clear: No permanent residence for refugees and immigrants in the remote Greece and the Aegean islands for purely national reasons. The decongestion took place in 2020 and continues. Thirty thousand people left the islands. The FCHs have now returned to the pre-crisis level of the seventeen thousand. In other words, we have been reducing from the beginning of the year by 56% and we are continuing. Christmas will be even smaller. And until Easter and the summer of 2021 our goal is for structures on our island to be almost empty. We didn't want and they're no longer our soul storehouses. On the issue of unaccompanied people, for the first time there are no unaccompanied people on our islands. All unaccompanied by the islands' Kyts and will soon be abolished and this shameful one, the stay of unaccompanied minors in police stations. Within 2020, all unaccompanied minors in police stations will have left. We already have a thousand children in our country less than we had at the beginning of the year, thanks to the relocation programmes. Even more we support the municipalities that raised the burden of the migratory crisis with 15.5 million granted to these municipalities this year, with 750,000 paid for compensation and we are considering further requests, with 25 million granted to the Solidarity Fund for infrastructure projects in these islands. We therefore want and we achieve substantial and absolutely sustainable decongestion. It is not in our plans to fill the country with structures, but to close structures. This year we close sixty-seven hotels in mainland Greece. Next year we will close seven structures in mainland Greece, because decongestion will not only be on the islands. He'll be all over the country. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, are now effective in managing our own house. But to be clear: the problem is not about Greece. It is about the whole of the European Union. We seek solidarity and joint action in the face of crises, and we are at the forefront of negotiating our national issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u59	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u60	One paragraph, Mr President. So our Greek positions are also calling for strict protection of our common borders. The strong policy of common European deportations of those who are not entitled to international protection. The relocation in the context of the solidarity of recognised refugees. And the creation of crisis mechanisms, like those that we experienced in our country in February 2020. The government has a comprehensive policy and faces the effects of immigration. That is why I am voting against the motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u63	Here you go, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u64	I want to make a statement - a question to the Minister. Today in the English-language version of the German magazine “SPIEGEL” there are complaints that the Greek port in cooperation with FRONTEX, is re-promoting the so-called push backs. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether that is true, whether he has been informed and what he intends to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u65	Mr. President, what now? What's Mr. Skourletis talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u66	This is the right, under the Rules of Procedure, to have a two-minute intervention after the position of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u67	As what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u68	As a parliamentary representative. The Bureau is aware of that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u69	You withdrew Mr. Tsakalotos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u70	We're reconstituting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u71	You're welcome. To give the floor means there's an update. All parties are doing this. There are partial replacements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u72	So, it's gonna be Mr. Skourlets all day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u73	Not all day. Until 16:00. Learn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u74	Let's hear it. We're the ones of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u75	Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u76	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u77	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Parliamentary Representative of Officers, the efforts of the Greek Government, the successful effort to guard the Greek border since March 2020, has created a huge economic disaster in the circuits of the poachers. Greece estimates that nearly EUR 100 million has been lost by those who trade in human pain. We have been faced several times with organised propaganda, with articles that mention the Turkish coastguard as a source of information. But the particular thing you say goes beyond that. Even FRONTEX is now with us in the creation of reprocesses. Things are clear. Our country guards its borders. He keeps them with full respect for international law. I feel that you are reminiscing the period of increased 2015 flows. Is that what I read in your intervention? Do you want our country not to guard its borders? You want a million people back in our country? Is that what you suggest? Aren't you proud that our country guards its borders?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u79	Do not misinterpret, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u80	I am proud that the Greek port this year has saved dozens of lives in the Aegean. This year we have fewer deaths than ever in our country. I say to you quite clearly: our country guards its borders with full respect for international law, and I would ask that we do not reproduce propaganda from other states in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u81	We're still on the list. They will then speak five colleagues. I address them to know this: Mr. George Stylos, Mr. George Marinos, Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos, Mr. Tref Alexiadis and Mr. Andreas Nikolakopoulou. The Deputy Minister for Immigration and Asylum will then take the floor, Mr. Koumoutsakos. I would like to say to everyone that, instead of saying to the Bureau, 'one minute, Mr President,' there is the six-minute warning and that is where they will see to it to end. We must all respect - with me first and foremost who will follow the presidency - that there are colleagues who must speak. If everyone is abusing their time, they won't talk. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, about sixteen months ago Greek citizens turned their backs to lies and populism. They instructed the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis to return the country to normality, with compassity of truth and honesty, on the path of Europe and common sense, with moderateness, wisdom and pragmatism, away from the toxicity and barren controversy of the past. The government, from the outset in this context, has drawn up its policy, with the principle of increasing our national wealth and achieving prosperity for many. In politics, however, the facts are the ones that determine the agenda and often the facts move out of planning and will. From the first months of the country's governance, the government is managing crises, for which it is not responsible, which did not result from their own mismanagement and were not the result of its own policy. The migratory and attempt to invade Evros, the global pandemic of the coronary and the economic recession, which is its result, the tension with Turkey and the challenges at our maritime borders, natural disasters test, not only the government, but the political system and the Greek society as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is going through multiple crises both internally and abroad. In crisis situations, citizens demand the political leadership of strife, seriousness, truth, efficiency and responsibility. In situations of national crises that touch the core of our national situation, we do not have the luxury of wasting forces in barren controversy. We do not have the luxury of populism and demagogy. We do not have the luxury of choosing the path which, unfortunately, is chosen by the motion of censure by the Democrat Opposition to the Minister of Finance. The proposal of distrust of the Officerate at that time shows that SYRIZA cannot respond to the request of the Greek people. It can't work creatively. It can't help citizens change their lives for the better. He chooses conflict and hard confrontation. With the untimely suggestion of distrust, the Civic Opposition returns to its true self, to the SYRIZA of the past, conflict and memorials, excesses, to great words, promises, lies. I have listened very carefully to the attempt by the Police Officer to justify her choice of a motion of censure. Its criticism is that the government is irreversible and leads thousands of citizens to the street, with its predictions in law with the new bankruptcy law. I'm not going to answer what the law says. The Minister has been put in the committee during the debate of the bill, but also our rapporteur. After all, we will have the opportunity to talk about this bill on Monday during the debate, where I shall be placed. For the historical truth, however, I would like to ask: is it not a fact that the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government abolished the protection of the first residence by Laws 4346/2015 and 4592/2019 horizontally? Is it not a fact that twenty - six thousand auctions were made on SYRIZA? Is it not the case that electronic auctions were voted on and thirty-five thousand new auctions are being launched at the moment? If the Qualified Opposition does not agree with the government proposal, what does it propose? Does he propose to return to the previous condition where there was no welfare? If he has anything else to suggest, why didn't he do it while he was a government? Four and a half years he ruled this country, but he took care to inherit this problem to the next government, the Government of New Democracy. It is a tactic, followed for many decades in previous years by many governments. But we cannot continue with the same wrong attitude. We cannot repeat the mistakes of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the government faces multiple national crises within and outside. The opposition has to face a single crisis, its internal crisis, which, in my opinion, is from its low rates of acceptance, from its inability to strategy, to respond to the major problems affecting citizens. There, then, is the motion of censure of the Officership, the clearing of accounts inside, the internal field of SYRIZA. Only this is not about citizens, it is not about our young people. The government is moving quickly and decisively, closing the chapter "Golden Dawn", which so much troubled the place, sending a message of safeguarding our national sovereignty to allies and enemies, taking measures for human life and dignity to the judgement of the coronary, creating the right environment for growth and preparation. Citizens tell us everywhere and every day: “You do well. Go ahead. We are amazed by the government's effort and the results it brings." The citizens are therefore aware of it and feel justified, which, with their choice of sixteen months ago, at the critical moment, is managed by the New Democracy and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Stylion, for the accuracy of time. I call to Stepma the member of the JRC, George Marino, for seven minutes. Here, Mr Marino, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. They have seen many of our eyes from movements of disorientation and manipulation of the people from New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK - KINAL, who have been ruling for so many years and are trying to cover their courses, to hide that their policy serves the interests of the great capital and manages the barbaric capitalist system, which is constantly giving rise to greater suffering for the working people. This policy loaded the previous capitalist crisis to the people and continues to load on them the new crisis and the consequences of the pandemic. The financial instruments you advertise, the billions of the so-called Development Fund go for the profitability of big capital. This policy has been bankrupt by hundreds of thousands of workers, bio-pagan farmers and self-employed professionals, who have already lost their homes, their property, and many more are experiencing this torture in our day in the jaws of taxi and banks. Stop, gentlemen of the government, iron the people who are struggling by displaying the misery of a second chance. The Law on Banking Law puts the tombstone in the pit that you opened in previous years with SYRIZA and PASOK! Stop, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to remake that you don't know anything about the murder. Your policy has been marked by the treatment of workers' mobilisations against thousands of auctions as a peculiar offence, and this cannot be washed out. What can all of you say to the hundreds of thousands of unemployed who are trying to keep them, without even this calamity allowance? What about the underemployed, the horticultural, the free work, the job jungle and the employers' terrorism in the workplace? What about the painful reductions in wages and pensions? What can you say about the flooding, which raises the cross of the testimony in Evia, Karditsa, Crete, Istanbul and the other regions, victims of your policy and of the European Union, who face the necessary infrastructure as a cost? What about the future of the thousands of two hundred employees in Larco, who have consciously degraded it, and now you are leading it to the sale or closure? You're partners. You traded the public health system, found powerless in the pandemic, with thousands of shortages in doctors and nurses, in short in intensive care units. You lowered children's education and violated the right to modern and adequate schoolrooms for teachers. You were all hostile to the students' struggles and resorted to repression. The Strategic Partnership of New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL is on the ground of the geostrategic upgrading of the Greek economic groups, in order to expand their action and gain greater profits, claiming a share of the prey of imperialist wars and interventions. In the name of these interests you fanatically support the country's ever-increasing and deeper integration into NATO's murder mechanism and the European Union, strengthening relations with the United States and supporting their design of competition with Russia and China. Your responsibility is for the American - naval bases in Greece and the conversion of the country into a war brigade against other states and peoples, putting our people at great risk. Together you joined the country in the European Union's political-military arm, permanent structured cooperation, and involved the armed forces in imperialistic missions abroad. Cultivate false expectations for the intervention of the Americans, Germany or France, the 'West', as you say, in Greek-Turkish relations, with the aim of collecting the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. You've been exposed irreparably. The situation in the area, the investigations of the Turkish ship "Oruts Race" near Kastelorizos, possible drillings and the risk of military involvement show the great political responsibilities of all governments and urban parties, all of the parties that touch their hopes on Euro-Atlantic imperialism, which is moving on the basis of its objectives, maintain strong economic, political and military relations with Nato Turkey and cover or even fuels Turkish aggression. The Communist Party of Greece is voting against the overall anti-population policy of the Government of New Democracy and SYRIZA and calls on the people to make their own reproach, which will be combined with the escalation of mass and organized struggles to meet their needs, to address the new anti-government storm that the government has already announced, for the equilibrium of the eighth and fixed working time, the imposition of a new trade union law, with a view to bringing trade union rights into the plaster and to escalating repression. We believe in the struggle of the working class and the power of its alliance with the popular layers, against its common opponent, capital and power. This is hope and popular power will multiply through the meeting with the Communist Party of Greece, in the struggle to overthrow capitalist barbarism, in order for people to take the toil of what they own, to become owners of the wealth they produce. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too, because you kept the time. A moment ago, the President called me, who accepts some complaints from colleagues, who are marginal in time to speak, and so that we do not have to go in five minutes, because a calculation is now being made again. I have told you that the time is now and tomorrow, and that is why the seven minutes will be respected. Along with the bell, I'll warn in six minutes that you have a minute to go to the end of your speech. Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President, you will not have to remember. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of distrust of the Officer's opposition to the Minister of Finance is under the circumstances and will prove to be turf in the air. Firstly, because it is not personal reproach to the Minister for a scandal that raises questions of integrity. Mr Stagiras is doing nothing less and nothing more than the government committed itself in its programme statements to solve the problem of red loans. The second reason for the motion of censure is Mr Tsipras' time to misuse this top parliamentary weapon, but with firearms. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a real storm of a combination of negative circumstances, which, likewise, we can hardly remember in recent decades. The country is faced with three, at the same time, major crises, which it is called upon to overcome at the same time. First of all, we are talking about the health crisis with the coronary pandemic, which is unfortunately growing, because of some irresponsible behaviour. Secondly, we are talking about Turkish aggression, which, in a situation of unprecedented deprivation and neo-Ottoman fantasy, unfolds the entire grid of its illegal claims against Greece. Thirdly, we are talking about the recession in the economy, which has arisen as a result of its pandemic and its response measures and has taken domestic and global dimensions. After all, we have seen this with the collapse, in fact, of the tourist industry in the summer and the grim forecasts for next year as well. In these circumstances, one would expect that the political forces of the country would set the national interest as the primary objective, that everyone would be colluded in order to deal with the difficulties, that secondary differences would be put aside, and in particular from the opposition, a constructive criticism, with no extremes and pointless populism. However, in this afflicting place, it seems that we have not seen everything. SYRIZA, after the loss of power, entered a long crisis of identity and cabotage and seeing the disappointing numbers of polling, decided to play the tested acidification paper on all fronts. As Mr. Tsipras did not convince society, after he did not convince much of his members, after he realized that he was not the uncritical, unquestionable leader, but under sect, he remembered himself before 2015. His party is very easily associated with any protest and any maximalist demand, with the sole aim of destroying the government. That is why he has supported the completely absurd, in all respects, phenomenon of student divisions. That's why he lifted up patriotic paradigms in Greek-Turkish, asking the government to do what they did not do over four and a half years. That is why he came to vote against even the measures to relieve those destroyed by the cyclone "Jan" and within them are the inhabitants of Thessaly, Farsalon and Carditsa, who visited Mr. Tsipras himself, but his tears proved to be crocodiles. That is why he is coming now, with the fireworks of the motion of censure to Mr Stakoura, with the reheated slogan 'no house in the hands of a banker'. But not only can Mr. Tsipras accept that Kyriakos Mitsotakis, not only won him, not only does he rule, but in the midst of such difficult situations, the Government of New Democracy continues to enjoy the confidence of the majority of Greek society. He believes that the citizens have suffered amnesia and have forgotten that his own inappropriate third memorandum forced him to put an end to the protection of the first residence in 2019. That the then Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, was saying that the auctions are good for development and social reasons, that over the days of Mr. Tsipras there were over twenty-five thousand auctions. That's when you were chasing former comrades of yours, like Mrs. Constantopoulou and Mr. Lafazanis. Because you were the ones who abolished Katseli's law to protect our first home and citizens lose their homes because of debts, that is, what is trying to correct the bill, brought by Stagiras, protecting our most vulnerable fellow citizens, giving them a second chance to make a new start. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole set of scenes that the Acoustic Opposition is trying to set up by fishing in the blundering waters of the agony of some of our fellow people, does not pay tribute to his inspirations. The country at these critical times needs seriousness, responsibility, certainty, firmness and determination. Every mistake, every slap, any distraction from the main target can cost a lot. The Greek society, in its overwhelming majority, is aware of it and that is why it trusts Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of the New Democracy. It's about time SYRIZA realized it and not try to relive the dream of 2015, playing in the same outdated pattern. Citizens have suffered and learned and the past does not come back. That's why you'll either be grown politically, following a responsible opposition or you'll find yourself at the point where you started, at the percentages of the protest party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. The ending bell hit exactly seven minutes. I hope that will be followed by everyone. I call in Stepma the next speaker, SYRIZA MP, Tryphoon Alexiades, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank the previous New Democracy MPs for their opposition lessons, which each one of them delivers, reading this note again and again, but at some point answer the substance. Stop reproducing the same argument, which has become tedious and you cannot convince anyone. Answer the substance and exactly what we are talking about today. Today we are not discussing the motion of censure on one person. Today we are debating the motion of censure on a policy which you are carrying out, because you have been voting in elections, and others have been voting on it. I'm starting one - one and telegraphic, because due to time, we can't say much. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, 28 March 2018: ‘A stable tax system for at least five years’. Mr. Mitsotakis was absolutely right. It takes a stable tax system, especially if you want to move on to development and investment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u89	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u90	... Mr President, I think the honourable Member would like to say something in the background. I'll stop giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u91	I would ask that you do not interrupt, as you have not interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u92	So, as far as the stability of the tax system is concerned, it was quite right, but it was said in the election, while what is it doing post-elections, indifferent to the fixed tax system, which it needs for investment? I'll testify the painting in the Minutes. You have already brought twenty-seven laws, which amend the tax system and one that is in consultation, twenty-seven. These are the things you were saying about a stable tax system and I wish you could tell us how many others you would bring by the end of the year or what else you are planning to do. Let's go to your second argument, in your argument about SYRIZA's overtaxation, the one that every day your executives were boiling down to say in the channels about the "twenty nine unfair taxes of SYRIZA", including the imposition of the environmental charge on the use of plastic bag. Even that you put it within twenty-nine, as well as a lot of other furious and overreacting. This ending was well done and you maintained it and you raised it in the past few days also brought a new tax increase. You did well to raise the tax because it is an environmental tax. But the question remains. If you meant that, then and you didn't say it because of an election campaign, will you abolish the 'two nine unfair taxes of SYRIZA'? But let's go to the woods. What we have added as the country's tax burden, what New Democracy and PASOK have added, because you have prevailed and had the same logic. In 2010-2014 a tax burden of 36,5 billion was added. In the period 2015-2019, the previous period, less than 15 billion, 14.7 according to my calculations. But since I may also make a mistake, I will submit to the Minutes what the representative of the Ministry of Finance said in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 29-11-2019, which clearly says what the New Democracy has done, what the PASOK has said for a third memorandum of around EUR 10 billion. Equivalent measures by New Democracy, equal measures by SYRIZA. That's for restoring the truth. Don't hurry to deny it, I'll file it in the Minutes. I move on, honourable Members, with the so-called reductions in taxes. Yes, you do tax reductions and you do well to reduce taxes where taxes are unfair. Because the question is not a few or a lot of taxes. The question is fair or unfair taxes. So you do well to proceed with a reduction in taxes, where taxes are unfair. However, I will submit to the Practical Characteristic Taxes and other relevant provisions of the New Democracy, because you are following the old tactics and PASOK and the New Democracy with various photographic provisions to reduce the tax burden, mainly on the "holders and occupants", sometimes even on the interconnectors or those who remind you of the operation of some media, according to what defines the Pecca list filters. However, we come to something that is now appearing in the bankruptcy bill as an amendment, a reduction in the special contribution of solidarity. I'm going to say that, because it won't be heard by another channel, one can hear it from Parliament's channel alone. You are struggling for the medical and nursing staff of public hospitals, fighting for teachers, nurses, teachers. Pour crocodile tears for the soldiers, the police, the porters, for the heroes of the Navy, who are now fighting, especially those in the submarines are missing from their families for a long time. Watch what you're doing. You do not give them tax relief or half of the euro. Bank executives, executives of pharmaceutical companies, are giving huge relief by reducing the special solidarity levy. To the private sector worker, who receives EUR 893, you have eighty-eight-minutes of monthly benefit. The man with a salary of 5,350, you have 292 euros. The one who's got 18,000 euros. That's your class policy. That's what you want to do. I come to the issue of the Bankruptcy Code, what we are discussing. I will repeat the question I asked in the Committee on Economic Affairs and I did not receive an answer. It's clear why I didn't get an answer, I wish I could get here. You tell the Ministry of Finance's site a great lie, that protection of the first residence had expired in February 2019. Take care of those of you who say it and have legal education. The person who has no legal education and works with something else - I'm an economist - can say something like that, but those of you who are lawyers and you say it be careful what you say. Take note of what you say, because the protection of first residence, as I said in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but also as it turns out... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little tolerance, Mr President, as Mr Katsafandos and the other Member of Parliament have taken Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u93	No, there's no tolerance. There's no tolerance. Close with the last sentence. I warned you all! And you heard the bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u94	I mean, eight and a half minutes, Mr. Katsafandos and seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u95	Listen, there was some news over there...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u96	Random! All right! I shall conclude, Mr President, with two proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u97	Shut up! Hang up now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u98	I'm done, I'm done. I shall now turn to the Minutes for the famous end of the first place. Thursday, 22 October, Mr Buga speaks - with legal competence and clarity - and he says that the main residence was fully and fully protected until 31-12-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u99	Deposit what it is to testify and complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u100	SYRIZA did not inherit protection of the first residence for which he was supposed to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Alexiadis, it seems to me that I'm talking to no ears. So close up, because at the moment you are at risk of all Members going to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u102	I'm closing, Mr. President. I understand it's annoying what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u103	Please, please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u104	I close and say, there was no first home protection according to what I'm tabling in the Minutes. I understand what you're going to do and the burden you're going to raise. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Be sure that this law even if it is passed, will remain on paper and will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u105	Good. We continue with Mr. Andreas Nikolakopoulos for seven minutes. Reminds me again, the bell at six minutes warns that in a minute you'll be done. There is no tolerance, because there are colleagues who want to hear and they have regions and they are prepared and want to speak. Do not force the Bureau to reduce the time at five minutes because I told you that this evening the sitting is closed at 23: 00. There are measures and a curfew. And tomorrow we will have a specific expiry time. Here you go, Mr. Nikolakopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country is facing great challenges, giving battles to critical fronts, such as the pandemic, where we are confronted with the second phase, but also to the south-eastern Mediterranean, where we are facing Turkish challenging. What is required above all these hours is unity. History has shown us that against serious external risks discord and division have painful effects. So one would expect that these hours the Civic Opposition to stand up to the circumstances. Obviously, we do not want to agree on all our political choices or to vote in favour of the government's bills, but to put forward a motion of censure at this stage is a divisive move. At the time when the government is fighting and, with success on both fronts, you are choosing conflicting and divisive moves. After all, this approach of the Officerial Response in the first phase of the Greek-Turkish crisis, when her Chief had linked the consent to Greek-Turkish with the Papagelopoulos case. Your move, however, to table a motion of censure in the present critical national context does not only show the size of your irresponsibility. The issue you have chosen to table a motion of censure on the Minister of Finance shows the size of your hypocrisy. You are going to rehearsely apply the recipe of the anti-Symmetrical and antisystemic rhetoric, which led you to power, feeding the illusion that it will lead you back there, deceiving the Greek people, at the time when you would abolish the memorials with an article, you would delete the debts and you would not leave "no house in the hands of a banker". Only the people now know that neither the Memorandums have been abolished nor the debts have been cancelled, nor have you stopped the auctions. And new Memorandums brought new debts and new auctions. As for the banks, the fraudsters have led you to a 40 billion-dollar reduction, money that the Greek taxpayer has finally paid. Once again, serve in your dear policy of inexpensive populism. Today you represent the protectors of the first home, the borrowers and you demonize the bankruptcy procedure. You abolished by L.4346 of 2015 the protection of the first residence and set a time limit for that abolition, but you also laid down certain strict conditions for its protection, initially until December 2018 and ultimately until February 2019. So do not say that you have not abolished it because you have granted an extension of its abolition. You legislated, so you abolished it. In fact, you left red loans without any protection after 31 December 2018. Why did you abolish it if you were cut off for the borrowers and the first place? Perhaps because you believe what Mr Tsakalotos said here in Parliament, that the housing market always has a risk, you get a loan and at some point, you have to pay it back. You have the chance at some point that you don't have to take that risk and lose it. I shall submit this statement in the Minutes. You're the one who modified the law of forced execution. You have established electronic auctions and parallel auctions by more lenders. Why did you do that? Is it to facilitate auctioning? Obviously, that was your policy. After all, the former Prime Minister said: "The auction process must go ahead to finally redeem the banking system. Anyone who is rushing to react to these auctions should be ashamed of", referring to former partners who were protesting outside the notaries you carried the auctions to. I will submit to the Minutes and this statement by Alexis Tsipras at ERT3 in 2017, to the then journalist and current MP Christos Giannoulis, who then listened and agreed, but today protests about the new draft law. But then the Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, said: 'Auctions are needed for social reasons'. I will also present this statement in the Minutes. In this policy, however, you were consistent, because according to data from the 'auction' website, which I will present in the minutes and are not in dispute, the auctions that were opened in the period of the SYRIZA administration reached thirty-five thousand six hundred twenty-three, of which twenty-five thousand six hundred and seventy-two were completed. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now you are talking about the auctioning of assets, which will allegedly provoke the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, but you are not talking about liquidityisations and auctions on your day. You are not saying that Katseli's law provided for liquidation, not only of the other assets, but even of the first residence, under specific conditions. You are not saying that in the previous legislative framework there was no legal protection of first home, of those engaged in commercial activities and that the auctioning of all its assets was provided for. You even changed the order of satisfaction from auctions, giving banks priority, even by the demands of workers. Nevertheless, the Chief of Police Response spoke here the day before yesterday to the House about bank contracts and made sure they were satisfied with privileged contracts. From the "no house in the hands of a banker" we passed the priority of the banks in the auctions and the auctions in favour of the banks. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, the submission of a motion of censure on your part ultimately does not only highlight the wealth of work of the Minister of Finance, nor the importance of the draft law to deal with the private debt problem, a problem you have not explained to us so far, because you have not been able to solve it. What it shows is the size of your hypocrisy, for which there seem to be no limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too, for keeping time. In fact, you've taken less time. I call on the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, George Kumoutsakos. Here, Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from this step the Chief of Police Vice-President has tabled a sloppy, forward-looking proposal of distrust against the Minister of Finance. The acute complainant and particularly aggressive tone at the time he tabled this proposal was not able to hide anything else: his anguish. Anguish not for the present and future of the economy of the debtors and the weak, as it has been predicted, but for the future and the present of his own party, which spends very difficult hours, with internal atrocities, crises and conflicts, and especially with constantly shrinking acceptance by society. A motion of censure, dictated by such struggles, not wider social, but narrow party, is doomed to be unreliable in its essence and condemned in its outcome. Because it became rough, under the state of political stress, for the wrong issue, for the wrong man and at the wrong time. Why the wrong thing? Because the primary objective of the draft law is to support our weak and indebted fellow citizens and that is done in terms of social justice and economic efficiency. In this draft law, the government actually proves that despite the multi-frontal crises it is continuing the reforms. It establishes a new bankruptcy law, which is a key reform for the benefit of society and the economy. Within a wider economic environment of reform, socially sensitive and entrepreneurial fertile, the bill deals with a fair and effective issue of high private debt. However, the proposal of distrust also becomes a wrong person, because the Minister of Finance - colleague and friend - Mr Stakoras, since he has taken over, has been working improperly and effectively to serve the two main objectives set by the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, on the one hand, to correct your own disastrous mistakes and, on the other, to proceed decisively and firmly to the necessary reforms needed by the economy and the country. But the proposal comes at the wrong time. Try and strive with anguish to make noise and create a political issue on the one hand, while on the other hand the forces of all of us should be focused on combating the consequences of the pandemic and on combating and tackling Turkish invasion and provoking the Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean. So the motion of censure you have tabled is a regular despair. You are viewing the numerous polls that give way to the order of twenty units, chaos in favour of the government, and in very unfavourable circumstances. The findings of the polls are also confirmed by society's aid. In everyone's mouth - you know - there is a phrase: "Fortunately, in such critical times, SYRIZA does not rule." This political nightmare you're trying to spend with the agonizing motion of distrust. But the little opposition in long hours is not going to rescue you. Honestly, I would like you to be able to make a serious and substantial opposition. That would be a contribution. Unfortunately, however, you can't or won't. You therefore strongly attack a piece of legislation that aims to put order in the protection of first home and in the chaos of private debt, problems with which - I remind you - you have been living together for five years, without you being able to give any real solution. From your failure, therefore, she is trying to relieve the Greeks of this bill, which institutionalises the protection of first residence as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households, with a permanent character, without a deadline. For the first time, a preventive mechanism is introduced for the early warning of citizens so that no one will be brought into insolvency again. For the first time, all the individual debt adjustment tools that exist today in a framework and a process are integrated. For the first time debtors, who are proven to be in financial difficulty or unable to make a new start. In your day you have been vigilant, but in the end you have never offered the citizens. On the contrary, we create a legal framework, a legal basis, so that people in debt have a real second chance. People who under the existing regime are excluded from economic and social life will be able to make a new start in transparency, terms and conditions, and create again and yet you have a lyric opposition. But we have the right to ask: Who are those who move the finger today? They are the same ones who, in February 2019, were horizontally abolished the protection of first home, since then the auctions were - as Mr Tsakalotos said - good for economic and social reasons. What was the result? To become more than twenty - five thousand electronic auctions on your day. You are the ones who have legislated a limited programme of only six months, with a specific expiry date. As a result, only a thousand three hundred sixty eight applications were made. So your criticism is unreliable. I'm sure it's your proposal. Your unreliability, however, is not limited to the issues of the economy. With the same irresponsibility, you are also attacking the issues of immigration and asylum policy implemented by the government, both internally and abroad. Mr Metatakis has already fully referred to the interior. Just hold it back - I repeat - three elements from his speech. Firstly, effective treatment and reduction of migration flows to Greece of 90% over the last six months. Secondly, decongestion of the islands since the beginning of the year, with about thirty thousand movements, beyond and outside the islands. Thirdly, rapid and effective examination of asylum claims, i.e. a rapid separation between those who have the ability and the right to international protection and those who do not have, that is, between refugees and immigrants. The total of primary and secondary decisions since the beginning of the year has been almost eighty-five thousand and you heard it. Greece's asylum service with Eurostat data is the second in effectiveness in Europe after Germany's and all this in the midst of a pandemic which makes the management of the situation more difficult. Before I go to the external dimension, I would remind you that Greece has faced two crises combined with migration: the Evros crisis, which was a border crisis that was effectively protected as national and European borders and the crisis created by the Centre's arson in Moria, with rapid capacity building for those who had left without accommodation, to stay there and the effort continues. As far as the external dimension of immigration is concerned, we have been able to have, despite the difficulties of these months with pandemic, repatriation, compulsory or voluntary about fifty thousand people in the countries of origin and origin. The relocation of unaccompanied minors to other Member States of the European Union, the six hundred relocation programme, and more generally our policy has ensured alliances, has raised the country's international credibility, we have a dense network of bilateral cooperation that helps our efforts. Our aim is to ensure, together with a group of five countries, a balance between responsibility and solidarity, not on paper, not on money, but on relocations. So unreliable to the issues of immigration. Unreliability and irresponsibility are your policy. The motion of censure you have tabled lacks substance and seriousness. You have not tabled a motion of censure. You have lodged credentials of unreliability and political hypocrisy. I am voting against it and we are voting against it. And one last. Thank you for making our gathering even stronger!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Let's go to the next circle of colleagues. We're starting with the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Georgios Katrugalo for seven minutes. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bankruptcy bill is simply the most inhuman aspect of a comprehensive plan for the violent restructuring of the Greek economy with worse conditions than those that the International Monetary Fund has attempted to impose the Memorandum period. The most obvious example of this policy is that thousands of our fellow human beings, thousands of fellow citizens, will lose their homes, their first homes, which unlike the propaganda of the New Democracy has not happened in our day. No auctions concerned the first residence. But tens of thousands of businesses, which the ministers of the New Democracy and the Prime Minister's financial advisor call 'zombies' operations, will be closed down. The backbone of the Greek economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 90% of the Greek economy, are at risk, because of your overall policy, not only of this bill. You are basically condemning the poverty of the middle-class, which was your laureate during the election campaign. In total, you condemn Greek society in prospects that it had never faced since the Second World War. There is indeed a common, red line, which links your policy at all levels, economic, social, coronary, national issues. What's that red thread? A double speak that attempts, through the mid-minded superpower you have and you try to support it with moderations like the Pesca list to cover up the truth. It is a reversal of reality, a parallel virtual reality, that failures become triumphs, that imminent or actual disasters are already becoming evangelical news. So the impoverishment of the Greek economy becomes a creative disaster, which will redeal the deck for the rich and the powerful. The violation of sovereign rights by the "Orutch Race" becomes a breeze that has quickly been lured into the FIR Athens FIR. And all this to preserve the image of Prime Minister Moses, constellation and cheetah. But there is a great difference between national issues and economic and social issues. In economic matters, you are actually moving forward on the basis of a plan. It's not just the bills you bring. They are serving precisely this effort to restructure the economy and society in favour of the powerful and rich. On the contrary - and unfortunately - on national issues you are moving without compass, without a plan, without a strategy. Adviser to your Prime Minister, and I hope he does not end up fatally for the country. Basically, seeing and doing is his policy. I have already heard my friend George Kumoutsako, I have heard Mr Mitarakis. You are proud of how effective you are dealing with refugees. How proud you are of this, sending children and micromen to the cliff of Viktoria Square. Ladies and gentlemen, one of you is now looking into the eyes and I ask you: are you equally proud that 'Orutch Race' has been violating the country's sovereign rights for forty days? Are you proud that, for the first time, Turkey's warships crossed the point of 12 miles? Would you be equally proud of the Prime Minister and his policy if we have a drill south and east of Crete? The truth is that you have failed in national matters with a slash and a noise. You did not manage at the level of diplomacy to ensure the sanctions, for which Mr Mitsotakis himself said in his article of 9 September that foreign-language newspapers are the only option for the September European Council. You haven't even stated your red lines. Once you declared red lines that it was six miles, it was so obvious, so against national interests, that you quickly tried to shake an ant. Why had none of this not happened during our governance? Because then the message was clear on the other side. 'Neither will you think about it'. He was served by deeds. The one and only time that Turkey had tried, what it continues to do on your day, to violate our country's sovereign rights by conducting investigations in the region of Kastelorizo, in the autumn of 2018, the answer was immediate. We are against the militarisation of the difference. We are firmly in favour of peace and dialogue. But it is wrong to think that the message of deterrence is equivalent to involvement. It's exactly the opposite. An effective sign of deterrence with clear red lines is what prevents the aggression of the other side. After all - there are sovereign rights in our country, which each political power owes to defend. That is why we have repeatedly asked you to make the Greek red lines Euro-Turkish red lines, with an effective framework of sanctions, with the positive prospects for Turkey, if it abandons its aggression. We requested that you send a clear message that you would not tolerate the immediate expansion of the territorial waters in Crete, announcing your previous demagogue, when we decided in 2018 on a partial extension of the territorial waters, when you said then that this is a strong acceptance of Turkish claims. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. National issues are not offered for shallow opposition. We must serve in unity. In order to have a national unity, however, you need a strategy that you lack. Bad lies, at some point the reproach on the issues of the economy and society will directly give you the Greek people. I hope it does not give you reproach and the story of how you manage national issues because this will be disastrous for our country. It is now time for national unity and national strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too, for keeping time. We shall proceed to the Member of the New Democracy, George Amyras. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, in proportion to Mr Katrugalo's call to us majority MPs, I turn to you as Members of the Officership, SYRIZA and to Mr Katrugalo. I am looking at you in the eye, and I would ask you to answer how proud nationals you are and how much you accept this red line that is not on your side, when Mr Katrugalos said on July 2, 2019 on the "One Channel" channel that Turkey also has rights in the Aegean. Let's go down now. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the SYRIZA's motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikoura, may be a desperate attempt by Mr. Tsipras to get away from the inner-party heavy problems he has, but on the other hand, it is still a gift to the government. For for three days we have had the opportunity and we show our differences. We highlight the hypocrisy of SYRIZA, contrary to the reform policy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in every area of society and the economy, facing years of problems, structural problems of decades in the field of energy, the environment, public administration, the economy. Our differences, therefore, between the Government of New Democracy and the opposition of SYRIZA and those of SYRIZA are catastrophic. The citizens trust our government and that, of course, also seems from polling. But the only one who can't see the cause of his problem is SYRIZA. The problem of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, is deeper and can only be described by one word: Comparison. Comparison, ladies and gentlemen. If we compare the events of the SYRIZA and as opposition and as a government with the events of our government over the last fifteen months, then I think we will all be wiser. Do you remember her "sleeping"? SYRIZA's election banner. ‘Sharing, deletion of debts and debts’. What did SYRIZA do as a government? Twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy two electronic auctions. Do you remember SYRIZA executives first on tolls, outside taxes, outside banks, with the bronze slogan "I don't pay - I don't pay"? On SYRIZA's day, we had a record of wage and pension seizures, even for debts of EUR 500 to tax. On the other hand, the motto: "no house in the hands of a banker", what to say when SYRIZA proceeded to the third recapitalisation of the banks, after the first half of the country's catastrophic governance by Tsipras - Varoufakis - Kammenos. And then the funds went and bought all the loans from the banks and then ravaged what you would call "kids" at the expense of the debtors on a wild hunt. SYRIZA said as opposition that "we will be next to the borrowers" and as a government he has loaded half the Criminal Code on the backs of their former partner Mr. Lafazanis, because every Wednesday he was outside the notary and protesting against the auctions. Hypocrisy then, SYRIZA, hypocrisy today. I remind you of a statement by Euclid Tsakalotou in November 2017: "Electronic auctions are important, not only to have good banks, but also for development and social reasons". So that is what Mr Tsakalotos said in 2017, because in his own logic, the left-wing auctions were good, while the bankruptcy law brought by the Government of New Democracy, giving a second chance to vulnerable citizens, is critical. Ladies and gentlemen, I know Mr Chakalotos has a sense of humor and is distinguished for his love in Hollywood. So I suppose Mr. Tsakalotos should have distinguished himself in the movie with Richard Gir and Julia Roberts, who was invoking Mr. Stakoura the day before yesterday, and the character that is certainly identical to Mr. Tsakalotos is that jealous friend Richard Gir, who was digging out of his evil because the protagonist was doing it, while he was not. So it has happened and I begin to conclude that the deepest psychological motive of the SYRIZA's motion of distrust at the expense of Mr Stakoura is just so jealousy. Because Mr. Tsakalots over-taxed the universe in Greece for his day, while Mr. Stakoras reduced the tax rates for farmers, for entrepreneurs, for freelance professionals, for employees, for pensioners. In the Chaakakatou doubled the company tax advance, while in Stakoura it was cut to half. In Tsakakalotou, not only did ENVY "smacked" in the reality of the citizens, but it increased indirectly with the supplementary tax. The EMCDDA was reduced by 22% and the solidarity levy was suspended. On Tsakalotus the country, if it were not outside international markets, was borrowed with too much expensive money. The country went out seven times on foreign markets and borrowed, even with negative interest rates. Ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA said that the borrowers must be protected, their actions led to a hostage regime. Now that we give the opportunity to protect themselves and have a second chance to rebuild their lives, Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA make a game of impression, shallow, lame, that doesn't work in society. Mr Stavros has achieved a great deal as the Minister of Finance and has before him to deal with great trials, due to the pandemic, but also to the challenge of the proper use of the Recovery Fund, the resources that will come from the Recovery Fund. For all these reasons, therefore, I am voting against SYRIZA's proposal of distrust towards the face of Mr Stakoura and I join the majority of society, which since July 2019 has tabled a permanent motion of distrust against SYRIZA. One last thing, ladies and gentlemen. Two days ago, when we were talking in the draft law on the Bankruptcy Code, I mentioned in the speech a Japanese saying. Today I'm going to close with a saying of Yannite. For a moment, I thought that the President, Mr Tasulas, is here, my compatriot. So what do the Yannios say? I am addressing SYRIZA and the motion of censure. That "the lot of talk and dance is sparsely". Well, be careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u113	Mr Katrugalos has asked for the floor for a minute. Because I, too, saw that Mr Amyras referred to a statement by Mr Katrugalos, Mr Katrugale, in order to confirm or deny that this statement is true. There's no more staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u114	Article 68(1), Mr President, as a result of a different meaning to what constitutes the true statement. My sympathy - indeed my sympathy - Mr Amyras has not understood, not what my view is, but what is the national line on this issue. Why do we agree to discuss with Turkey in the investigative contacts for the one and only difference, the demarcation of economic zones? Because we recognise that Turkey, having shores, has those rights which it recognises in coastal countries the Law of the Sea. And only these rights, not the rights she wants to display with her strength. This statement, my own, must all be repeated by everyone, ladies and gentlemen, because the Greek people must know that this is the case, that what we deny Turkey is its review strategy, to take more forcefully than they deserve. However, that we should discuss with her and the only solution is dialogue, on the basis of International Law and the Law of the Sea, was the national line and the Greek people have to understand exactly the substance and its content.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u115	It's understood, Mr. Catrugale. I now call on the former President of the Communist Party of Greece to speak for twelve minutes, as is entitled by the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u116	Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u117	The Rules of Procedure state: ‘the former Members of Parliament’. At the same time, for the Communist Party of Greece the former president was also Secretary-General. Therefore, do not suggestions. We all know that. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u118	They don't need these. I feel very good about what I am today. I wish the Greek people, through this debate that is taking place today, could draw some evidence and conclusions concerning, if you like, the last decade of 2009-2010 to 2020. I'm talking about this distraction because it matters. Undoubtedly, the reproach is a parliamentary weapon, such as 'against', if any, against a government bill which goes to become a law or, if you like, towards a general government policy. For us things are very simple. No, we are simply merciful, condemning and denounce government policy with the same heat and with the same determination that we have done so for the previous governments, where - speaking now in the decade, I do not want to make an earlier revert - one was an extension of the other and, of course, each additional one at the expense of the people, in relation to the previous one. He couldn't have done anything else. At least, however, these debates, even in the form of them, can be a more substantial and respectful area for those who are watching this debate on this subject on such a condition. Why am I saying that? Because someone said - and rightly so - that it looks like a show. I'd say the following thing. It turns out that the differences between the government and the Civic Opposition and the other parties, other than the JRC, are there, but they are far less and less important, as far as the interests of the people are concerned, than those which unite you. That is why you are resorting to a number of arguments, which are politically coated in noble language, and I would call them vulgarism. I will give an example, because the Greek people must finally understand that when these lines and such arguments are used, the party is hiding what is united, in terms of the general political line of faith and action. For example, the New Democracy says that the motion of censure by SYRIZA is a motion of censure by Mr Chakaloto. And SYRIZA says - brandedly, people said it from this Step - that the motion of censure by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, is a proposal that enabled Mr Mitsotakis to empty him, because he did not come to the House to support him. But are these arguments? You feel the need to use such arguments, precisely because it must be felt that there is a gap between you. Hey, there's no such chasm! To give another example of the opportunity, which is a little timely. Is it possible for the Greek people to draw a conclusion who is in favour of or who opposes the people's interests by counting only the votes in favour, 'in favour', 'in favour', 'in favour', 'yes', 'yes', 'no', 'no' and 'no'? Oh, no! It is important for the Greek people to see, and from what point of view, what the arguments as a whole of the Anti-Population parties are, who are voting against a government law, such as this terrible, inhumane, barbaric law, which is related to bankruptcy. It has to be thought that since they have ruled, what have they done in the relevant matter? The 'yes', 'no' and 'no' do not say much. In practical terms, of course, it arranges for which law passes and who does not pass or who is against. I feel the need, on behalf of the party's parliamentary group, to say: 'AUDIAN' these days, on the occasion of the trial of the criminal, Nazi, Hitler's organization, the Golden Dawn, made a sum of money and concluded that the Communist Party of Greece and the Golden Dawn all these years were approaching the number of 'no' in the bills brought by the government. If this is not a variation of the theory of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis of the two extremes, what is it? Is she more polite? Is she more beautiful? But, of course, the Golden Dawn did not vote for the bills of government that sent them to the court or the SYRIZA government, who clearly wanted their sentence and imprisonment. But look at the "yes" of the Golden Dawn. They voted for benefits in the big capital, Greek-speaking agreements, concerning business groups, to logistics. It does not draw any conclusion with 'no'. In other words, are we all going to vote against - not Mr Stakouras, one person is Mr Stagioras who acts within the framework of government policy - the government, we are voting against it from the same point of view? We're doing it from very different. So leave such arguments - terrestrial. I would like to say an example, where you are meeting all parties, other than the JRC, in today's debate. I get an isolated event, because that's not all. All the rapporteurs, the representatives who spoke, the main speeches made yesterday and I heard them from my home, said the following question: they said that we are experiencing a pandemic crisis, a health crisis. You've all met on this. Seriously, is that the problem we have today? Of course it is. However, you are all making oil and sanctifying from the people that, if we didn't have a pandemic, Greece was in an anemic capitalist development - not only Greece, but also many Member States - of the European Union and other states apart from it - and that there was provision, fear, anxiety, certainty, probability, to erupt a new synchronised capitalist crisis. Of course, the coronary pandemic may have accelerated it, it may have made it more profound, created some problems. You have every interest in talking today. You have a political and class interest, all parties and the government is, of course, meant to speak of a health crisis. Of course, in the health crisis, who will not agree on certain restrictive measures. We'll agree. From there on, of course, we disagree with the whole readiness of the system, the state of the health system, etc. My comrades said it, I don't want to repeat it. The years since the crisis broke out, in 2009 - before it started from the United States in 2008 - until 2018-2019, how did you say government and opposition, all the then parties, within Parliament? You said the crisis was caused, it was Papandreou's fault, it was Karamanlis, it was Simitis' fault, it was Mitsotakis, if I remember well and if I didn't forget anyone else. It's a crisis of corruption, of remulsion, of partisanism, of rupturedness, of inability to manage. That's what you said. When the crisis broke out, not only in our neighbouring states. It started from the United States and took time and too much of the most prestigious capitalist nations. You have every interest in hiding from the Greek people that the crisis, the capitalist economic crisis, which we live and the one that has accelerated and is now going to continue, is the natural result of the normal functioning of the capitalist system. Why don't you say it? You don't say that for two reasons. Firstly, why are you all supporting this system, ideologically, politically, economically, repressive, constitutionally, militaryly, in all ways. Secondly, because you want to forge the idea that the people have to choose between one or the other, or variant of the management of the same interests, the interests of capital to the detriment of the workers. You are now confined to them and you are catching an issue, watching each other what it says on twitter, if one executive has a disagreement with one's leadership and you are dealing with inner-party disagreements with one another. Why, this is about the Greek people? They have an interest in the following sense. Of course, today there is a dispute and there is an anguish between parts of capital, between capitalist states, depending on their position in the hierarchy of the global capitalist economy or the regional economy, about what is the best management mix. The same disagreements exist within the liberal parties or neoliberal ones - which you say - and between social democratised or socially-democratic, such as SYRIZA, parties, still among parties called left. In these disagreements and contradictions, we do not give inconceivable form, nor do we deal with the faces who say what he said and what he said, but they arise from the unscrupulous difficulties and contradictions that the capitalist system itself has. The time has passed when the upward rates of capitalist growth and also the points of opposition have been raised. It appeared in the debate here too, since New Democracy and SYRIZA came to the opposition, as was SYRIZA in Anti-Policy and became a government. You have some individual arguments about what the proper policy is, which incorporates and manipulates the Greek people. The New Democracy can promote me with laws and classes, while SYRIZA can promote social solidarity for democracy. Both of you and the other parties what do you think? You say we need to reduce social inequalities. So you accept that you are addressing, rejoice, support the capitalist system, whose main feature is the class exploitation, which, of course, is expressed in the form of the social inequalities that are not abolished. Even in the so-called 'golden' period, in the 1960s, '70s, '80s, which were given both in Europe and in Greece to some extent increases in wages and wages, widening the possibilities for poor families to enter the universities, and then the extent to which labour and public strata were exploited increased. You haven't said anything about businessmen today. New Democracy tells businessmen, individuals. You say private. I don't know what you mean by private people. Private may also be one, who has a kiosk and one who teaches in a home to students I would like to hear from SYRIZA who these small and medium-sized businessmen are cut? When the New Democracy was a government, SYRIZA was hitting the middle class. Didn't the New Democracy define us what he means when he says middle class? Or rather with some alchemys they were saying in the middle class are the ones that have 10,000 euros a year and above, everyone is middle class. Why, of course, do not you want to say that there is a working class, which is determined not only by the level of income, but by other more substantial criteria, which I cannot say now. I can't do a lesson from the Step of the House. Who are the small and medium businessmen SYRIZA tells us? There are. And we accept them. But who are they? What are the criteria? The working class does not admit it to any party that it exists. There are poor in general and small and medium-sized layers. Third, what's there? Entrepreneurs who make most profits - that is what you believe - will necessarily improve the life of small and medium-sized strata and reduce social inequalities. There is no period of development of capitalism, even at the time when wages were upwards, which the degree of exploitation did not become greater and much greater. We don't judge ourselves from what we say inside the House and if we say it nice and use nice lines. Where the Communist Party of Greece is judged is at the factory, at the office, in the neighborhood, in the field, on the road, which are these small and medium-sized peoples, not all of them in general, where there are women and young people, who belong to the working class and the populace, who approach their level of life with the level of working class or tomorrow will bring them even worse. The people must blame and punish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Pappiga. Please prepare the Step and I will invite the MP of the Change Movement, Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos. Mr Constantine Güulekas, Member of the New Democracy, will then speak, and then the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, will take the floor. Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the motion of censure by Mr Tsipras and Mr SYRIZA against Minister Staikora for a second day. First finding: New Democracy and SYRIZA are struggling who will win the praise and this for the salvation of society and citizens, when both should be apologised, New Democracy for five years 2004-2009, and SYRIZA for the destructive five-year period 2015-2019. Déjà vu, Prosecutor. Let me remind you where SYRIZA was when PASOK with the government of George Papandreou 2009-2011 introduced protection of the first residence with Law 3869/10. Where was he? He voted against the law to support borrowers. Today, of course, SYRIZA becomes his honor. Remind me when the Memorial was abolishing a law and deleting the debt with an article. Let me remind you, however, where the New Democracy was with its destructive government policy over the period 2004-2009, which led to a derailment of the economy, of course leading the country one step before bankruptcy. [[Here is the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS.]] One would say that for the SYRIZA five years there was not this five or six years 2004-2009, the country's governance by Mr Karamanlis. What was it? Omertà. The conclusions of yours. It was also the PASOK, the government of George Papandreou, 2009-2011, who lifted the burden, so that the country wouldn't go bankrupt, when you were all company in the Constitution. Let me remind you there was the Golden Dawn, this Nazi motif, which, of course, we all denounce. Demagogy and distortion throughout her majesty. So let this distortion stop, it does not benefit anyone. Therefore, respect for this PASOK 2009-2011, which kept the country from going bankrupt. Let me finally say, ladies and gentlemen, the crocodile tears from all the current invoices, because SYRIZA, from 'I'm not paying', went to the establishment of electronic auctions, and the New Democracy from the so-called international rescue plan for the country of citizens in a dirt decision that does not take us off the neck. So, Phariseeism in all its majesty. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, Panagiotis Lafazanis responds with the violins and former comrade fires he has taken because he dared to protest about electronic auctions. In the New Democracy, all the bodies called upon to express an opinion on the new bankruptcy, a bankruptcy law cut and sewn for banks and bad strategic bad payers were responded. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' motion of censure is of two importance. Desperate move, on the one hand, to alleviate the inside of his party and the rebels, the willing ones he took to make enlargement. I will, however, tell Mr Tsipras that willing people do not benefit. In order to make enlargements, political commitments and programming commitments are needed and not willing, who do not respect and honour their word. On the other hand, as an act of sponsorship to the New Democracy, it is taken out of the deadlock of the bankrupt. Absence: Why does Mr. Stoura turn against Mr. Tsipras rather than against the government as a whole? So the Prime Minister would come to account for the total governance of sixteen months, for the weak handling of the health crisis, for the absence of a national plan that the country needs, in response to the challenges from Turkey, for the pretext of supporting the real civil economy and all of this in an unprecedented experience, which we all experience, because of the coronary. However, it is often proclaimed and announced by Mr.Mitsotakis to personally cover the failures of his ministers, whether Mr. Kikilis, for his oligarchy, to manipulate health structures with medical and nursing staff or Mr. Petsas with the large lists of media and public money used to build a customer state of New Democracy or Mr. Karamanlis with the depressing image of public transport or Mr. Aygeakis with his failures in the field of sport, as well as with his last decision by fans in the field through pandemic, which Mr.Mitsotakis himself came to annul. Ladies and gentlemen, the focus of this debate should be on bankruptcy, which the country and the citizens need, and not on banks and poor payers. The bankruptcy of everyone in our country is considered a relic. It follows the bankrupt throughout his life, because in the new context that the bankrupt does not come out of "TIRESIA". But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the second opportunity, because we are talking about borrowers who are desperate. It should be stressed, of course, that in Greece over the last decade incomes have been reduced, pensions have been cut, and the result is that borrowers cannot meet their obligations. However, the commercial values of their homes were also reduced, even under objective conditions. Thus, the borrower cannot pay off his loan, even dive his home. The funds come and buy their loans at 15% - 20% of their nominal value. We are really talking about a bankruptcy code, which does not provide solutions to borrowers, of course, for a bankruptcy code that does not enable the borrower to lead foreign funds and buy his home at the price that the funds will buy. Why, Minister, should the borrower not accept this request? What do you answer that? Of course, nothing. However, you tell borrowers that they do not need to sell their home and that you will make them tenants. You tell them that if rents paid for twelve consecutive years, they will be able to rebuild their home at commercial value at the time of the buy-back. However, even if they manage to raise this amount earlier, it does not mean they can pay it back. We're talking about unprecedented things! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, in the new context, you put 40% of the debts as a criterion for the cessation of payments. So you open the door to mass bankruptcy. This is where the bankruptcy threshold could reach 100,000 euros. Which, that is, small businesses are counterproductive, according to Pissaridis, let them be thrown into Kaida. That doesn't make sense! Do not forget that small businesses are the backbone of our economy and that these businesses need and need our real support. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that there is no concern for the redundant, no guarantee for the farmers borrowers of the former agricultural bank. Once the Agricultural Bank became Piraeus, I would say that a key pillar of support for the productive sector has been lost. I am, of course, concerned here, as are you, about what will be the next move. Is it going to be the bank's statization? That's a lot of questions. We're waiting to see. In conclusion, I would like to say that the government refuses to convene political leaders on national issues for the formation of a strong, national line. For all of us, ladies and gentlemen, the red line is twelve miles. Greece and Europe cannot accept any blackmail and no unilateral action by the Turks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Constantopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u122	However, our message is one: in national matters we are all a fist. Finally, with regard to the motion of censure against the Minister, we state our distrust in your Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. The new Lebanese Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has been speaking for two minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I asked for the floor - I am sorry I was not here when Mr Katrugalos was speaking, but I heard him from my office - because I wanted to give an answer to the question he asked in a confessed mild and consensual, but a little temptation a little earlier. So Mr Katrugalos asked us whether we were actually proud of our foreign policy. The answer is clear and absolute: Obviously, we are absolutely proud. We are proud, and we have proved it when we were guarding and guarding the borders in the Aegean, when we had an absolute and secure protection of our borders in Evros, when we can and will ensure - something Mr Metarakis said before - an absolute reduction in the flow of illegal immigrants in the country with respect to International Law, when we sign the conditions of EEZ with Italy and Egypt and when we now reach a meeting with neighbour Albania on the agreement there, when we succeed in becoming a European Turkish border, when we are successfully perpetuating the issue and tightening up the solitary cord around Turkey and when the whole of Western society and surrounding south-eastern Europe now see as a state - a turbulence, Turkey. Our red line is clear and it is the defence of our national sovereignty and our sovereign rights. But we maintain our temper, and that is what we need to do against excessive Turkish provocation. We move methodically, by winning the marathon of diplomacy, not by populism and opportune threats to expand to twelve nautical miles, but by serious and national responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Levane, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I am in ten seconds. The Government of New Democracy implements the national strategy and calls for national consensus, as it has done over time as a paradigm in the difficult times, as you have rightly said, and you have closed your speech. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u127	Mr Constantine Giulekas has the floor for seven minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Qualified Opposition has exercised its top right, a fundamental right stemming from constitutional order, from parliamentary order. He filed a motion of censure. Because, like all colleagues, I am involved in the public debate and I follow closely all the statements, as we have to do, our political opponents and, in this regard, the officials of Officerial Representation, from the President and former Prime Minister Tsipras to the Members who entered the last elections in Parliament, I note that there is a negative criticism of the entire government policy. So it makes me a terrible impression, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response, when I see that you are choosing - and of course it is your inalienable right - to make a motion of censure only against the Minister of Finance. This means or that you only disagree with economic policy - which, incidentally, is not the Minister of Finance's own policy, but is the choice of Prime Minister Mitsotakis himself and of the government as a whole, because all the decisions go through and are approved by the Ministerial Council - and that you agree with other aspects of government policy or that this move is a move that, let me say, has other criteria, political criteria. As far as I am concerned, it is obviously about what is going on within the Civilian Opposition Party and possibly the motion of censure is an opportunity to unite the executives. Of course, apart from the fact that Qualification makes the motion of censure - here we are not investigating intentions - it is important, I would say, and when it is, which is important, ladies and gentlemen, when it is tabled. So this motion of censure is being tabled at a time when one really wonders whether it was the best thing to do in the end to choose the Party of Officers, which has ruled this place for four and a half years, to exercise the fundamental right, I repeat, of course. I say this because, first of all, we are in a protracted crisis - I am talking about pandemic - a crisis affecting all of humanity, a crisis which is severely affecting Europe, a crisis affecting our country, fortunately, not the same consequences that exist in other countries. However, it is a crisis that we all face, because it is a crisis, of which it really depends on whether to ensure the priceless good of life of our fellow citizens and our own. Secondly, this motion of censure is tabled at a time when the Turkish research vessel 'Orutch Race', accompanying Turkish warships, is sailing in this area, which Ankara has designated with the illegal NAVTEX. I would like to ask the following question: is it possible to put this motion of censure now, when Greek ships, the Greek navy ships, are on the opposite side and when we are on a climax, not Turkish provoking, but - let me say - Turkish aggression? Because that is what we have been facing all this time, and this crisis is unprecedented. It is the first time since '74, except for the Imian crisis, where we lamented the loss of our three lads, which such a crisis lasts so long in time and of course has the characteristics of such an exacerbation, where the other side of the Aegean is now open for war, for 'blue homes', for claims, for making maps with which it commits, in its view, half the Aegean Sea, etc. Right now, at the time of the crisis, while the men and women of the Armed Forces have been on the border and on the island for months, the Civic Opposition chooses to table a motion of censure and leads us to this process. Of course we are obliged to follow her. I am sorry, however, because I must say that the way, but also the time that one chooses, enables us, from the government majority point of view, to exercise our criticism of the Civic Opposition. You know, I heard a lot about a series of failures in national policy and our foreign policy. Let me say that the Greek people are watching us. And he is watching to see what message the national Parliament sends, the National Representation at this time of crisis, what we say about the neighbors, the Greek people and those who are watching, because not only are the Greeks watching, they are all watching what is going on in this Chamber and what message is being sent out of this Chamber. What do we tell them about? That the Mitsotakis Government has failed to do so, that the Mitsotakis Government has almost retreated against Turkish aggression, that the Mitsotakis Government, that is, the Greek Government, does not matter if it is the Government of Mitsotakis, Tsipras or Samaras or Karamanlis or Site, is the Greek Government - it has failed. I ask: why, ladies and gentlemen? If you wish, it would be easy to get into the converging and party controversy procedure - our Parliamentary spokesman has said so before - and to remind you that this government that has failed, is the one that has regulated maritime zones with Italy, with Egypt, this partial demarcation, which you have accused of, and you have already agreed on it, and you have discussed partial demarcation. It is this government, which discussed with Albania and referred the matter to the International Court of Justice, as appropriate to states that really want peace and on the basis of international law, to settle disputes between them. It is this government that dismantled the crisis last February - March in Evros, when Turkey attempted that peculiar invasion with refugees and instead of surpriseing us, that one was surprised by us. It is this government, which has effectively regulated and depreciated a crisis last summer. It is this government, which is currently facing the present crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would really like to see an agreement on these issues, as I told you that it would be very easy to remember, and we who should not be alone in the Aegean, who should not say that Kastelorizo is either in the Aegean, whether or not the seas have borders. Don't get into this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u129	You need to close up, Mr. Giuleka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u130	I'll be right back, Mr. President. I would say that at this moment I must remind you that the success of the Mitsotakis Government, like any Greek government in such crises, will be a success for Greece and the failure of the Mitsotakis Government, as will the failure of any government, of the former or those who will come, will also be a failure of Greece. In this sense it is a good idea and we must remind ourselves - in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, I have indeed heard many say'red line', it is a red line - that one is the red line and I think that is where we are all meeting, despite our individual different approaches. The red line, the national line is the defence of our national rights, our sovereign rights, and we therefore have a strong deterrent mechanism, the Armed Forces. Let me close, expressing gratitude to these children of the Greek people, to men and women of the Armed Forces, to the Greek Police, to the Port Authority, to the Fire Corps, who for months have done what is not self-evident, but thanks to their vigilance, we are able to do so: They are effectively guarding our borders. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u131	The red line in the process is seven and a half minutes, not least, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gülekas said earlier, "in a very good defender of a father". Everything else is to have a word. Ladies and gentlemen, when I spoke yesterday during the debate on the new bankruptcy law I heard Mr Tsipras finishing his speech by putting forward a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, I confess that I was amazed and indeed amazed. I have lived in this House - 13 years now a Member - too many proposals of distrust and I am now relatively experienced in this process. I must admit, more timely and incorrect tabling of a motion of censure, I have not met these thirteen years. What should I believe or at least say at the beginning: The first reading was that Mr Tsipras has been completely lost and that all the analysis he has been doing for five years over Kyriakos Mitsotakis is going completely backwards and wrong. I would remind you that when the President of the New Democracy was elected, the current Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras' concept of being his hand and having him. About all the Syrians, whenever Kyriakos Mitsotakis went up to the Step of the Parliament, and then Alexis Tsipras said how amazing Tsipras was, how extinct he had disappeared and how great a character Tsipras was and how unexistent Mitsotakis was. A climax of this arrogance was Mr Tsipras' statement before the European elections to Mr Schroeder, that he will not lose one in a million from Mitsotakis. Since 2016, which was elected by Mitsotakis President, except for the first three months where Mr Tsipras was still before the polls, since May 2016, and specifically the Katsougalou Law and then, Mr Katrugale, there has been no single poll, not to indicate that the New Democracy precedes. There has been no period in the country’s newest history, the longest political dominance of a party leader and a resignation, than New Democracy has enjoyed in the last four years. May to October 2016: all polls of all companies have the first New Democracy. In the elections, whether they were regional, municipal, national, club, trade unions, football clubs, in public buildings, where elections were held, SYRIZA was defeated by the New Democracy. The most impressive thing: after the national elections, more than a year, 15 months, instead of the difference starting to fall, as is usually the case, when the government collects some sort of catastrophe and counterpopulation can and does something that benefits it, not only does not reduce the difference, but from eight points that were the difference in the national elections, in the most friendly polling for SYRIZA is sixteen, in the most hostile 20 units, that is, it has more than doubled - in the best case for you - the difference between us. In common, either the Greek people are 'zabos' or you have understood nothing from reality. I'm sure the second is happening. 11 million Greeks can't be wrong and you're right. It's impressive. Make one mistake behind the other. You're completely lost. I must say that I was surprised that what reasonable political analyst, communicationist, political adviser would advise Mr. Tsipras to table a motion of censure, one hour before the Prime Minister's lecture on the coronary, while the Turkish fleet is in the Aegean Sea and we have the pandemic outbreak? I do not say it in the sense that it has been heard here many times, of patriotism and that it has not been your responsibility. I personally, who consider you totally irresponsible anyway, am not surprised when you do not show responsibility. We're forgetting about this. Let's go to the purely political interest, to the concept of political tactics. What kind of fool could have made a suggestion of distrust, that is to say he has lost his highest parliamentary weapon for the next six months, to be completely lost! What remains of this motion of censure? Was the protection - supposedly - of the first residence, where do you say? Nobody's written anything. Is the bankrupt left? Nobody. Staruras? Nothing. What's left? It remained that you succeeded - it says - to ruin Mitsotakis' weekend, namely, pot hair, trivial things and ridiculous things. What did you do it for? Are you so ridiculous? Even I say you can't be so, so something else is going on. What's going on? I sat down to think about it calmly, too. I say: "It can't be thought of a whole Tsipras that in one hour's time, all Greece will deal with the proclamation." I say: 'It cannot be thought that all Tsipras would not think that in an hour when Turkey will do something in the Aegean Sea, everyone will deal with the fleet in the Aegean.' Nor can I believe that you consider that there is a New Democracy MEP who will not vote for this law or Minister Staikora. So why? I am convinced, because - I repeat - neither can you be so ridiculous that something else is going on. What's going on? This week, ladies and gentlemen, the first poll came out, from what I remember - you know, I am a maniac of the polls - who had the question: 'Who do you want to be Chief after Tsipras?' There it came out for the first time - it has never been done - the name of Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotou. To be fair, the second in the poll was Mr. Haritsis with a number of ten points. So the name of Mr. Eukleidis Tsakalotou as the most likely successor of Alexis Tsipras came out. Be careful, this is the first time that Alekos Alavanos gave Tsipras the ring and appointed him the Chief of SYRIZA. To this day, at SYRIZA, it was like a Chusescu. He did what he wanted. He was SYRIZA's ultimate leader. He sold them the story: 'I brought you to power'. They all said: 'He made us ministers'. He had them vote for memos. They've been auctioning. They were after Lafasan. They did what they did. They liked them to be ministers. For the first time, this political hegemony of Tsipras has begun to tremble. Obviously, we all understand that, even if elections are held, that is, at the end of the four-year period, and the polls are confirmed and defeated - I am not saying 20 units, but I say ten units, I do mean 50% - Tsipras has welcomed you. So here's why Tsipras made the motion of distrust. He didn't really do it for Stacura, as he was told. He's done it for Chaakalot. Why? Because from where the world had forgotten that Chakalotos as Minister of Finance had voted for electronic auctions, that Chakalotos as Minister of Finance had voted for the memorandum, that Chakalotos as Minister of Finance had abolished the protection of the first residence, that Chakalotos as Minister of Finance had taken unreasonable economic measures - and with Mr Katrugalo, to be fair - now he remembered them. You know, the ancient Greeks - Mr. Giulekas knows - after every battle...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u133	Mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Giannoulis, I'm in time. Do not revolt or interrupt me, or hold my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u135	Don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u136	There's no bottom of that barrel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Giannoulis, please don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u138	When a battle was over, in ancient Greece the ancient Greeks were looking at what point the change of battle took place, at which point the plating was up. And there was the famous "Trope". It was the point of turn, that is, of change. The trophy of the victory of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is undoubtedly the law of Katrugalos. From the Katorugalo law and after the middle class of the country said: "I do not vote for Tsipras again, which cuts my hand." So what did Mr. Tsipras do? He forced the entire New Democracy for three days to remind the events of Tsakalotos and so that Mr. Tsipras could say in the interior of the Left: "To who is Tsakalotos, for forgetting him." It's the Chaakatos who had us chasing Lafazani. He forced Lafazani to come out and curse Tsipras and Tsakalotus as the analgesic who sent the police to arrest him. Obviously, all this is a matter of your internal political space. Be careful, because this is also interesting: It is assumed in all the analyses and articles are expected to be terrible political developments this winter from the major economic crisis, which is coming because of the coronary and because of the government's failures. While - you are supposed to - expect this terrible social explosion, which will come because of our own failures, in this semester, you have lost the right to make a motion of censure again, at a time when there might have been a real political crisis. Why did you lose it? You lost it to eat the Chakalot. Maybe I too was wrong before and eventually, be even more ridiculous than you seem. Because, indeed, only one ridiculous opposition would do that right now. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's not a matter of responsibility. It is a matter of ridiculousness, with the fleet in the Aegean Sea, to propose distrust to the government, just to solve your internal issues. As far as this law is concerned - to close - I said it in my speech, since I sign the law. I am referring here, Mr President. And I'm making a personal complaint to Mr. Voutsi, which I particularly appreciate. I forgive you all. You have set me up 'NOVARTIS'. You did me an investigation committee for the CDC. Don't tell me where he ended up. You've cursed me more than anyone else. You've dedicated me to "HAY" almost every day headline. But just put forward a motion of censure on Stakoura and not on me, which I sign the bill, this foul will never forget. You're unacceptable. Immediately you told Greek society that you trust me more than Stakoura. I don't accept it. I want you to hate me. I don't accept it! This is a misunderstanding. So, even from this, that you forgot to make a motion of distrust to me that - you are supposed to hate me more and which I sign the bill, shows how lost you have. Mr President, I'm closing in thirty seconds. I come to us now, ladies and gentlemen, the majority. The law we are voting on and for which - I'm supposed - SYRIZA has fought is a wonderful law. He should've been here for years. We were the only Western country that did not have such a bankruptcy law for the individual and the company. He'll save a lot of people. I'll explain it in seconds, with a simple example. I Adonis Georgiadis have a house in Maroussi, which I got in 2007. Then he did 600,000 euros. I got a loan for it. I've been paying for the loan ever since. I'm swollen by Paulis that I don't pay - he says - from my "outside." He hasn't figured out what the loan is. I pay from 2007 until today hundreds of thousands of euros only interest. Because first you pay all the interest and then you pay the capital. So, I still owe nearly six hundred thousand. Now, my home because of the crisis is no longer worth six hundred thousand. If I can't pay a few instalments, and he'll be auctioned, then three thousand will be sold. The three hundred thousand left, although I've lost all my fortune, follow me for the rest of my life. Whatever I do and my children take care of those three thousand. With the law that we are going to vote on now, I myself, Adonis Georgiades, if I am in the same misfortune, again lose my home, as I lost it to this day, just the same thing, but the three hundred thousand die. And in a year I may have found a good job and rebuild my life from the beginning and then get another house and everything will work for me better. Thanks to the law we are voting on, thousands of our fellow citizens who have had misfortune in their lives will be able to escape their old debts and get a second chance in life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Georgiadis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u140	I'll be right back. This law is not a reason to submit a motion of censure. It's a reason for wishing the government. We should be ashamed of those Members who do not vote for it, not those who vote for it. We vote with pride and we vote for a vote of confidence in Christos Stakouras with pride. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too. Mr. Skourletis has the floor. You should wish Mr. Georgiadis didn't happen to him all those bad things he said or if they happen to him, to find a good job.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u142	We'll talk if I don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u143	That's what I'm saying. I wish you so. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u144	I have heard the deepest analysis of the Minister who has tried to investigate the causes of the motion of censure. In fact, it was quite fun. The same thing he repeated this morning to Mr. Ears at SCAI. And be careful of the coincidence. The same thing Mr Vorides said in this Chamber yesterday. Obviously, the common starting point has made them and they have a common sense of humor. It is not fun, however, when, as he rightly mentions to the armed forces in the Aegean Sea, some of their parents are in danger of losing homes with the law you bring here. It's not fun, the moment we invite people to be after 00:00, and right - at home some people in a few months don't have a home to stay. That's not fun at all. It's creepy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u145	The next ones to speak are Mr. Haritsis, Mr. Vartzopoulos, Mrs. Manolakos, Mr. Discashakis and Mr. Giannoulis. If at that time Mr Chrysochoidis is here - I do not see him right now - Mr Chrysochoidis will speak. Otherwise, when he comes. Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u146	Minister, I am really surprised that from the twelve and a half minutes of your speech, you have spent the ten and a half minutes talking about SYRIZA, about Tsipras and Tsakalot and just a minute to tell us about your personal situation and how wonderful this law is. I think we should have understood all of us - you, of course, as a government minister even more - how critical the moments are, how difficult it is for the Greek people, and so, to talk more about the substance of this bill, about the substance of the government's economic policy. Because our country is already facing, ladies and gentlemen, the second wave of the coronary pandemic, with the health system undeclared, with the economy in recession and unemployment again, with the insecurity of returning to Greek society. At this time the New Democracy Government chose to bring to Parliament a bill, in our view, deeply antisocial. At a time when the National Representation should also be discussing bills to support the public health system, support for education, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Government has chosen to bring in a bill on poverty and the bankruptcy of the social majority. This bill, however, is not lightning in hunger. It is the culmination of a disastrous economic policy throughout the past period. It is part of the government's plan to restructure the Greek economy against workers and small and medium-sized enterprises, a project that has not been hidden, and we read it in the Pissaridis interim report, where small and medium-sized enterprises are treated as a barbaric and a source of all the sufferings of the Greek economy. The pandemic didn't get the government out of it. Instead, it was a first-class opportunity to bring back memorial policies and demolish social rights. Why? Because for you these aren't rights. You see them as an obstacle to the excesses of your few and powerful friends. That is why you chose to leave the public health system in the middle of a pandemic intact. That is why you are choosing to go ahead with its logic, looking at and doing the economy, with insufficient and fragmentary measures, instead of implementing a forward integrated support programme, in order to limit the recession, reduce unemployment and prevent thousands of padlocks, a programme, such as what the producer bodies themselves requested, a programme, such as what we proposed from the first moment, with 'temporary standing', but also recently in Thessaloniki, with measures to support businesses, workers, households and local authorities, by matching the available domestic and European financial resources with the needs of Greek society, which you have never done. You didn't even talk about it. The result of your policies, unfortunately, is already evident. You may ignore them by insisting on presenting a picture of plastic regularity, but we will remind you that we, who choose to speak with the world of production, the real economy, the representatives of workers and businesses. So you led the economy to an unprecedented recession of 15.2% for the second quarter. For unemployment, the assessment of the GFCM annual report is that at the end of 2020 it will be up to 21.2%, even by launching it - that is very important, because we must also see the quality elements of these surveys - from 1% to 12%, of those paid up to 200 euros, and 31% of those working already receive less than the minimum wage. For businesses, and in a report the National Bank warns that the turnover collapses with losses to reach only this year's year's time, just for 2020, to 50 billion euros. Loss of turnover of Greek companies 50 billion euros! Developments in the processing sector as well. ELSTAT's data are extremely revealing. For August, compared to last year, we have a decline in exports of 14.2%, a decrease in turnover in industry of 15.1% and in wholesale trade of 21%, while in tourism and the focus the collapse is overwhelming, 78.8%. Overall, the situation in small and medium-sized enterprises is tragic and still in all these circumstances, not to have access to bank lending. Although the Greek banks have received 37 billion from the European Central Bank, up to negative interest rates in recent months, we have reduced loans to small and medium-sized enterprises until July this year. In the middle, that is, pandemic, now that the needs are greater than ever. Because 50% of the loan has only gone to six major business groups. How do you react to all this? What does the government do to reverse this grim reality? The additional liquidity you provided to the economy was only EUR 4.6 billion, according to data from the General Accounting Office of the State. I mean, drop in the ocean. Honestly, I wonder, gentlemen of the government, do you read the reports of scientific bodies and social partners? Now, in our opinion, it is more critical than ever to implement a social reconstruction plan, such as what SYRIZA has proposed. Do not again invoke the logic of 'leaf trees', when you leave untapped the security pillow of 37 billion euros, which we inherited you - precisely for such circumstances - when you do so with the NSRF, from which since the beginning of the crisis you have had 7.5 billion euros, to recruit staff in education, health, transport, to equip hospitals and schools, to buy trains and buses, to support businesses with liquidity and to cover employees with wage and insurance. And all that, without the slightest cost for the public funds. The regions of the country have already begun to implement similar direct support schemes with non-repayable compensation for enterprises. Why refuse to proceed to a corresponding programme on a national scale? We have established, ladies and gentlemen of the government, now your anti-social policy, and with this bill, the new bankruptcy, you have exceeded your own limits. You deliver households, businesses and professionals at the mercy of their lenders. The whole of the property is liquidated, without the first residence being excluded, while the creditor also acquires the right to the future income of the debtors. You are driving for the first time to massively divestment of first homes, to disappear small and medium-sized enterprises, speeding up the brutal acquisition of large business groups, when GSEVE tells you in its study that 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises come under the terms of the bill and are now in danger of being bankrupt and even absent, with Fast track procedures, while many of them have been forced to pre-empt their main residence, in order to gain access to lending within the crisis over the last decade. Instead of supporting them to lead to recovery, you are now giving them the graceful shot. We ask you: Do you think that the Greek economy will recover, leading small and medium-sized enterprises to extinction, with a direct attack on the property and incomes of small and medium-sized enterprises? Gentlemen of the Government, you are currently an exception throughout Europe, when even conservative governments have understood that without brave state intervention, with the support of the real economy, there can be no sustainable exit from the crisis. Finally, stop treating pandemic as an opportunity to restructure the market against small and medium-sized enterprises and workers as an opportunity to dismantle social infrastructure, which everyone, apart from you, now recognises as a precondition for social cohesion and development. Because any proclamations and communications tricks and to recruit, draft laws such as this for the Banking Code, reveal your real intentions and who exactly you want to serve, no matter how you undermine the exit from the crisis and ultimately mortgage the country's own future. Be sure, however, that in this effort to restore fear and insecurity to the Greek society, you will find the majority of Greek citizens in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. Mr Varzopoulou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u148	Mr Secretaries, now and then, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are known and measurable. Eurostat says that in recent years 48% of Greeks have not been able to cope with sufficient, even with small extraordinary costs. The average per capita consumption in 2017 was three quarters of the average Europe of twenty-seven countries. What does that mean? It means that there is a sufficient reason for the maximum, also known and measurable fact that households owe tax of 100 billion, to EKKA 30 billion and to banks and funds another 100 billion. This poses huge problems on both sides: both debtors and creditors. The debtors lose their property. Destroyed professionals are looking for a second chance. But creditors also have major problems. The public has huge issues of fiscal and cash pressure. The ETUC can't raise pensions. The banks, despite repeated recapital efforts, cannot finance the real economy. What does that mean here? It means we definitely need a golden incision. Measures which, on the one hand, will give debtors a chance to stay alive and find a second chance in their lives and, on the other hand, creditors will be able to stand on their feet and create an adequate basis for restoring the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the self-evidently this is all, but the uncompromising attitude of the Officerial Opposition is today. Honestly, I expected something different: I expected the finance ministers, the former SYRIZA ministers to present here today on this occasion an integrated, socialist, of course - but comprehensive - a proposal which would be confronted with budgetary logic, the problems of debtors and the problems of creditors. For example, Mr Varoufakis presented Mr Varoufakis, a proposal which I, as a right-wing, consider inappropriate, in any case, but which is a proposal with an integrated left-wing logic. It is an accident that Accuracy Against Politics chooses to return to policies and practices in the first half of 2015. It's a shame. Anyway, it doesn't matter what SYRIZA does. It matters what we do. What Mr Stagiras proposes from the government is firstly to find this golden incision. Secondly, in my view, it creates a parallel opportunity to cause significant innovative, radical changes in the functioning of the state and in the creation of truly social services. Look, the legislator feels that in order for this substantial innovation to take place, there should be a search and find those who really need it. He realizes that all this is not so simple, it's not that easy to understand. He realizes that it is necessary for the people to be able to use and benefit from the noble treatment of the law. To this end, the legislator is doing something very simple. It creates secure electronic platforms, which will serve many. However, it is not forgotten that these platforms are not accessible to everyone. It is not forgotten that, as long as we are on the socio-economic scale, these platforms are on aesthetic aesthetic basis - which we doctors say - they are having difficulty in communicating. It does not forget that 25% of the population, such as throughout Europe, has special needs, specific problems: elderly, chronic illnesses, chronic mental illnesses, which are 10% of the population, people with low education, people with difficulty access to services, people who cannot understand the possibilities of the state or have distrust of the use of these services. There is a solution and this solution is the creation of direct search and personal contact services. Mr Rusopoulos stressed it in his very correct introduction. It is the operation of the Information and Support Offices for Lending, which can operate within the social centers. They are structures created by the Left two - three years ago - to its credit - which are now under-represented. They will function, be staffed, trained, financed by central independent resources and not by the occasional NRP, thus creating, for the first time in our history, a single functioning social service, which will be placed under the operation and supervision of the OPEK. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really the first opportunity in our two hundred years of social life that we are given the opportunity to build a European social welfare state. Let me close by saying something personal about the Minister, who accepts the reproach. I lived with him in times of troubled nights and days in Victory, against the troika and Tomsen. Mr. Chacloglu was there. I have experienced him abroad confronting stubborn MPs and aggressive journalists. Christos Stakoras honoured the country then and you can be sure that he honored it today with sufficient efficiency and efficiency. That's why it really deserves our support.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. Mrs Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. Then there's Mr. Anastasios Prize from New Democracy. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u150	The draft law on the Banking Code, which you've been snatching popular property, and for which the motion of censure has been made, has been set out for years. You have taken care of the governments of New Democracy, KINAL, SYRIZA to shape the terms and conditions of bankruptcy of the people's strata. This is also apparent from private debt: the 234 billion, of which 45.2% relates to tax debt, i.e. the tax burden, which has been increased for the people's spheres, 39.3% is in debt to banks, which shows the taculty that you forced for the people's needs with the backs of governments and 15.5% to the insurance funds, which shows the excessive increases and their inability to pay. Of course, they contributed to the increase of debts and the previous economic crisis, in conjunction with the anti-grassroots measures adopted by the governments of New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL. This created financial suffocation to many, self-employed and farmers, accumulating debts in taxi, insurance funds, banks, PPC and elsewhere. Lately, the pandemic and the new economic crisis, along with uncertainty, create new debts and deadlocks. For example, the vast majority of farmland is indebted. He does not have to pay for contributions to the EFCA, which concerns the health of the rural family, to TEI, which is the water that waters the fields. The debts to the Rural Bank, which have now been closed, are asking them to be repaid. However, the good piece was given free of charge to Piraeus Bank, which today controls all the farmers' personal data and can blackmail them. But the Minister for Rural Development did not find anything to say about all this. Are you going to auction with the Bankruptcy Code what's left of them? That's what's planned. Or even self-employed and microenterprises record loans of 19 billion and 62.2% cannot repay them. So what do we have in front? Pogroms with rapid procedures for the death of the small merchant and aggregation of assets to the larges. Either with the carrot or the whip, that's your goal. That is why the Minister for Development said nothing. He's cursing for others. The measures, therefore, taken by the new bankruptcy code tighten the neck of the populace, intensify dead ends, lead to bankruptcy in large parts of them. At the same time, they are blackmailed, threatened by electronic auctions, which SYRIZA took care of in the form of proprietary. Also, you move on to the liquidation of their property - housing, shops, work tools, etc. - and to commit part of their annual income in order to repay banks, PPC and others. The so-called second opportunity announced by the government is a real mockery. The aim of such anti-grassroots policies implemented by the Greek governments and the European Union is the domination of capitalist businesses in the market. Of course, each party presents it in a different way. Others make up capitalist cruelty, showing that it can have a proleamatic face. You're making fun of yourself. In addition, the governments of the New Democracy and SYRIZA refused a proposal from the Communist Party of Greece to delete debts of poor people with unstable interest and horrors. Maria Konnakka told them yesterday in detail. The proposal concerned provisions that would relieve the people's and rural families of overcompensation for tax, insurance funds, OTAs and banks, i.e. the reduction of the debts of the people's families, which cannot be repaid. Hundreds of thousands of workers, self - employed, poor farmers and farmers are driven to despair. In fact, you rejected the relief measures we have proposed, with the same justification as New Democracy and SYRIZA, in the name of the resentment of the economy. At the same time, however, government announcements are under way with new provocative privileges, tax exemptions, state subsidies for business groups. For businessmen, big people, you always have something to give. For the working class and the popular layers only grab what they created with labor and sweat of life. There's the continuity. It is contained in the Pissaridis proposals and is the requirements of capital, and you promote them with plenty of anti-grassy, class bills. They are concerned with the rate of collection of overdue accounts, which, he maintains, remains low and must be strengthened, the escalation of the policy of liberation in energy, until the acceleration of the reinsurance reversals, the further fierce attack on labour rights, the strengthening of flexibility, the facilitation of redundancies, the reduction of labour costs with poor labour, without rights, confirming that the interests of capital are all hostile to labour and people's needs. This is the strategy of capital, which is founded on the intensity of the attack on the rights and needs of the people. So it is a shock for the people, so that they do not lose their capital in conditions of economic crisis and pandemic. This is the cruelty and rottenness of the capitalist system. It does not solve people's problems and needs, but it exacerbates them. That's why it's not made, it's not engraved, but it's overthrown. This is the solution and the interest of the majority. That is why we are voting against the policy of the Government of New Democracy and those parties, such as SYRIZA, which have the same strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. Mr. Pschakis from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Giannoulis follows from SYRIZA. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the debate, I would like to inform you of the positive and hopeful footprint of the two-day Prime Minister's journey to the extreme Evros last Saturday. With his visit to Alexandroupolis, Ferres and Samothrace he sent a strong and clear message of power to many recipients. It made it clear that Evros is shielded diversely and diversely against any threat, with a multipurpose deterrent, but also with the necessary staffing potential. His presence on the island of Niki expressed the message that the first concern of government policy is the care of extreme Greece, both in terms of security and equal opportunities. Now let's talk about our subject. The motion of distrust against the Minister of Finance Christos Stakoura recommends an untimely and misguided move of despair by the Party of Officers. The President of SYRIZA, who is in political and opposition discomfort, carries out a spasmodic act of irresponsibility. While the country is faced with major external challenges, such as health and Turkish provocativeness, it is trying to achieve even temporary coexistence of its MPs against the Finance Minister and therefore also against the Government. But in politics, ladies and gentlemen, values unite us in common and not sterile rivalry. You ideologically lose your pace. You are calling for a worthwhile professor of economic science, a decent politician but also a diligent professional with regard to economic knowledge, whose parliamentary course so far proves that his walk on the political path is characterised by the principles of democracy and honesty. On the contrary, gentlemen of Officerial Response, your policies prove that you remain locked in your micropolitical practices. Your social sensitivity is highly selective and volatile. I would remind you that SYRIZA, who accuses the Minister of having tabled a bill of bankruptcy and disastrous for the citizens, did not vote in favour at first of the draft law to deal with the consequences of the 'January' and then did not vote in favour of the amendment to compensate farmers who were affected by the naturality. At the same time, in the European Parliament, the SYRIZA Eurogroup objected to the whole of the European Commission's proposal on the new common agricultural policy, known as the CAP, which provides for EUR 19.3 billion for Greek farmers. Your government in February 2019 specifically abolished the protection of first residence. On the contrary, by this legislation, the protection of first residence is established as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households, which has no deadline. You have created a temporary programme that did not provide a comprehensive and sustainable solution. He didn't protect the citizens' property. He did not protect personal savings bank and family accounts, wages and pensions and could not work in practice. This drug-driven field you inherited us, as much as many others, gentlemen of Officerial Response and we live this in Aristotle Greece. I ask you this: What social sensitivity interprets the exaggerated zeal for electronic auctions established on your day? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] It was your Minister who said that electronic auctions are important, not only to have good banks, but also for development and social and economic reasons. On the contrary, the Government of New Democracy has voted to suspend the auctions since the start of the health crisis. It is therefore inappropriate to describe this draft law as bankruptcy when its absolute priority is to avoid bankruptcy. With the Treasury bill, the government actually proves that despite the crises, it continues the reforms. The new bankruptcy law, which is laid down in this bill, is a key reform, to the benefit of society and the economy. Basically, an innovative, law and national development framework is introduced, which tackles the major issue of the particularly high private debt. As far as possible, the productive fabric of our national economy is protected. Households and businesses are exempted from the burdens of the past in order to re-route. It gives way out of an economic prison," offering a real second chance to the debtor to make a new start without debts. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, respect for political opponents is a principle of political culture, proves the morality of the parliamentary post, which the Greek people have entrusted us. This motion of censure is a personal attack and possibly, with humble springs and self-interested purposes. Occupate a parliamentary tool in order to cover your political insufficiency. Fortunately, the Greek people perceive your despair, your failure, and the honorary role of Officer Response. You're, of course, on a raid. We are faced with two major crises, which require a national partnership and cross-party consultation. I encourage you to prefer a creative opposition in the light of the good of the Greeks, not the obsessive demands to be in the political background. The Jews have kept and are holding a sluggish front against dangerous national challenges. The power and endurance of Evros, which is a pillar of the state, presupposes a political system that inspires confidence, seriousness, unity and above all - Mr Giannoulis, soon to come to Step - support. Please look worthy of historical moments, at least as a Qualified Opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u153	We will now give the floor to Mr Christos Giannoulis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. In order to protect the House and colleagues from possible adventures in the next few minutes, I think - I am assuming - that if there was a meter of ridiculousness, a phrase that was used much earlier, it should, if it were to be taken, take out a person who is in this Chamber. But of course, it is easy to do molding against parliamentaryism when you do not need to answer, for example, what is happening. We are talking about bankruptcy law - we are talking more about bankruptcy law - but we do not see any answer, because this precedented law enabled the "KERYMAH" to settle their debts in a privileged manner. I do not know many who have 700 thousand loans and have been dealing with them for years as if they were not there. I don't know many who show an unprecedented tolerance and come here swinging the finger on SYRIZA and Opposition, because he dared to submit the motion of censure to Mr. Stakoura. I don't know, but what I see, in general speaking, is that you've been slapping people's homes to deliver them to the banks so that you have the tolerance of bankers, which has been going on for many years. Honestly, I cannot understand where schizophrenia ends, political schizophrenia. Will you ask us for lies, while you are caught saying one day "I will never say northern Macedonia, Northern Macedonia." and then, after six flip flaps, say "We welcome northern Macedonia to the Balkan landscape." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that pathological liars have the syndrome at some point of view of their lies as self-evident. You have one and a half days, when all you are developing, really copying and pasting - I do not know who has written it and shared it with you and it is identical - is to mention why the motion of censure was tabled. Answers to substance, none. Why are you bankrupt, why don't you give a second chance, why don't you invoke false evidence for twenty - five thousand auctions? No answer. On the substance of the matter, nothing. There are fire grounds for protecting Mr. Stakoura. That's how much he needs them? Soon I heard Mr Chrysochoidis will be here. Obviously it is late, because it should help to find Mr. Pappas, at the same time as you said that no golden man will escape. I end up in a denominator: lies, lies, lies. That's what you've reached power, that's what you're going with. You're talking about internal problems for SYRIZA. Yes, sir. You've made it a flag. Who are you guys talking to? The government that has two Prime Ministers, one for proclamations and one for national issues, is called Antonis Samaras and gives orders from the background to dialogue with the pirate Turks and you dare not bring the Sanctions with Northern Macedonia for a contract? Are you talking about internal problems? I have more, dozens of lies that have brought you to power. You are, of course, kept in a populist, but also a popular forum. It is unprecedented in post-government history what is happening with the permanent impoverishment of Anti-population. Where are we going? Shall we go to the media? Before we go to something about how the issue was created, which you respond with guilty silence today, I would like to recall an announcement by Mr Mitsotakis: "I will abolish the ERT's rewarding end to ensure that there is 4% growth and that the public pays the public instead of paying the ERT." What was the truth about this reduction in return? Because I only know and read the other day is that you give a TV star to do, through the ERT, eighteen minutes with Olympic athletes, 500,000 euros, that is, 5,000 euros a episode for ten minutes. Why do we say, ladies and gentlemen, that you are political fraudsters? And we say it with a narrow voice, clean and clear. Why are you political crooks? Can you remember how the private debt was created? Who has an absolute responsibility? You and the huge sums that went to bankers and media for the promotion of loans. Have you forgotten the period until 2009 when you went bankrupt the country, the phones that flooded us with "loans you want?", "loans do you need? How, ladies and gentlemen, was private debt created, when was it culminated and how was it culminated, and who won it, and continue to win? Does the banking system or the bankers have responsibility? No, of course not. Does Mr Stournaras have responsibility as an older bank commander or now? No, of course not. Not to mention who was at the bank offices and the IKO, who built the impenetrable block of an absolute media loyalty to you. Of course, years now - not for the last year and a half - you have been in such a dead end, which you have invoked as much as Mr Lafazani. So low have you fallen to invoke a man with fights on the left to justify your insurmountable politics? Find something more interesting, more prototype. Every time I say the word'lie', I keep thinking about samples or your election tactic or government life. Let us see now how this impenetrable front of silence and blackout was built, a lack of democracy in substance, which concerns the whole of the Opposition. Can you answer, in addition to the substance of the bankruptcy law and the motion of censure, for the media part? What really happened, with radio licences, with television stations' licenses, with the application of the SYRIZA law, which, for the first time, brought money to public funds and did not send money to the Canadian authorities? In order not to abuse the time of the other colleagues, if you had the sensitivity, 1/10 of what is a key link in the chain of democracy, you should have done, today the picture would not be. So stop laughing awkwardly in the face of your historic responsibilities and as MPs personally. Choose how the story will write you: As poor and fatal applauses of an ineffective and irresponsible Mitsotakis and of the bad ministers like Mr Stagioras? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u155	We shall now give the floor to the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, the realities of this time oblig us to discuss and finally come to a new policy on all aspects of security, from border to public spaces, from crime to synergy. What are these new realities? I am referring to a few important points: immigration, terrorism, epidemics, social exclusion, social restriction. These new realities are being exploited in geopolitical strategies and competition, and we have seen this in Evros. They also give birth to new forms of crime and we see it every day. They maintain tension and cultivate social fear. We have seen it with ISIS in Europe and its terrorist activities, but also on 11 September. They maintain and immobilize social life. We're living it with pandemic, especially with young people. The demand for security is fundamental and is a pandemic. A policy that does not guarantee security, as is currently required, trembling and at risk. Our democracy, therefore, must, as a matter of priority with reflexes of survival, define security and guarantee protection, but as a democracy, that is, not by reducing it, but by protecting freedoms and rights, because security means protection. The protection system is the practical application of safety guidelines. We protect from the invasion of Evros. The fence is an obstacle, it's not a border. We protect the right to a meeting. We guard the meetings. This is the new law, which we have tabled and which is already being implemented successfully. We protect the public space and the property of citizens from lawlessness and crime. This is the plan of tension of policing, which has changed Exarchia, the centre of the city, Saint Panteleimon, Zefri and Menidi. We also protect public health. That is why, since March, we have been uninterrupted on the front with controls, insanity, citizens' compliance, citizens' consent and understanding, but also fines where necessary. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, is knowing where you're heading for the conflict. So today two concepts of security and police conflict. One is the one formulated by SYRIZA. The perception of SYRIZA, unfortunately, of Greece of the past, awkward with today, obsessively turned in years past, in traumatic times, which, however, our democracy has convincing and irrevocably overcome. This concept clearly contradicts security and freedom, individual rights and legal order. In every speech, in every announcement, the reports are thirty to fifty years back. It's not a matter of historical memory. It is incapable of this party to see its needs today. For this party, SYRIZA dictates diligently the remnants of old situations, to give legality to the strange denial of today's reality, and that leads mathematically, not to the update of beliefs, but to their inactivation. After all, he proved it for four and a half years while he ruled. The police were literally abandoned in the bounce. We received it without morals, no equipment, no design, no education, no staff. On the other hand, our own, the new concept of security that I described to you, is the view and policy, which sees the security of twins of freedom as a dynamic relationship between these two values, which give the battle for prudence with the protection of individual rights, but without concessions to issues of legitimacy. It works like an ombudsman. It is shared with social life, with new phenomena of violence, such as domestic and school security that it sees together. It unites border protection with the security of immigrants, which was destroyed in Moria. It has a fundamental democratic duty, a duty, to everyday life, to ensure freedom and security of the movement of citizens. So new security, new police. We change everything, because that is how words and theories must be done. We changed the institutional framework. We gave the Citizens' Counselor the means to conduct investigational work in cases of arbitrariness and, at the same time, we upgraded police disciplinary law. We're changing police training fundamentally. The policeman has to think, be constantly trained. It is the citizen's ally, the ombudsman and the guarantor of legitimacy and rights. Above all, he's the unarmed guard of everyday life. To live without terror and threat, especially in forgotten neighborhoods, because lawlessness usually pays for it. So the police have to answer for it. Without accountability and transparency, corruption and arbitraryness are neglected. They are published every day, every week, every month, the events of the General Police Directorate of Attica, the GAAP, and shortly throughout Greece. We want there to be full visibility of the police work. The teams of involved MS, ACTION etc., in a few days, will bring cameras to an end on the one hand to selective video activism and on the other hand to cover up. We changed the law on meetings. We abolished the penal decrees that embarrassed us with their implementation. We now have a new prudent institutional framework that weights the rights of demonstrators and the move in the city, which requires the police to safeguard the right of assembly and not to stand across the street. Most importantly, this law is a law station, a landmark for the development of democracy that is not afraid, but regulates. It doesn't divide, but it does. He doesn't hang around, but he's guarding himself. Let SYRIZA go - I really invite you to a neighborhood, from Exarchia to western Athens, in Menidi, in Zephyri, where he never stepped on human beings. Let's go here to Menandros, Omonia, Agios Panteleimon, where people didn't leave their homes. There to speak of the favorite slogan "terrorist and fighting". People really think they're aliens. In every corner, every neighborhood is finally present and the police are trying because there are more than 50 policemen on the street than a year ago. In particular, there are new ways of doing business, coordinated specific actions, new groups, multi-education, struggle and work. Every day, every hour there's an attempt to be police at last. I present in the minutes the comparative table of police forces in Attica in June 2019. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have left lastly the issue of pandemic, primarily in relation to the problems that are created, caused by youth concentration. There is a contradiction between the vital energy of young people and the rules for dealing with pandemic. After all - we raise our children, we raise young people to socialize. And now we ask them to be isolated. This contradiction is their challenge and our support. Speaking of the police, it takes action and imagination, patience and perseverance and especially a lot of empathy. Young policemen are young in uniform, trained continuously to chat, relate effectively to young people who either collide in public spaces or participate undeclaredly in juvenile infraction. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the culture of disobedience based on the new implementation of measures when they are carried out by adults and, indeed, with the tolerance of institutional bodies, is really irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Grigoriadis Klons from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr Chrysochoidis, I have this destiny every time that it is my destiny to speak either as a Parliamentary representative or as a speaker to speak a lot before me and you force me - I did not want to reply to the phrase you said at last that the Greek Police were everywhere, that it seems for the moment to be everywhere except Mr Papapas and that is why it is certainly not everywhere. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] I would also remind you that your previous statement, in an introductory statement, Mr Minister, "personally grieves me", says 'the fact', refers to the fourteen-year-old child who has been left in the GDR for four days to investigate who knows how to do four-monthly. "Children" you say "have to be in their school. The position of children is at their school, it's not on the way." It is undeniable, and I would like to say in particular, Mr Chrysochoidis, why I am asking myself this. Does anyone who's 14 years old lose their status? He has no right, if he thinks he is in danger of dying from a coronary in his school - why is he thirty one and not twenty-four as you say, and not nine as he should, since nine is the limit for all other events - to say so, to claim this with a speech out on the street? No one has the right to throw grenades or molotov bombs at MATs, I call it joking, we are all in agreement, but having the right to be on the road, it is obvious that he has the right. As for Mr. Georgiadis, I was very sorry to have left just now because I really can't come back from yesterday when I heard him say my own ears to Mr. Evangelato - I have the bad habit of listening to such broadcasts - that all the trouble of pandemic in our country from what you say came? It came from this intense gathering, the humiliating gathering for the announcement of the ruling in the Golden Dawn trial. The Minister said so, 'we have seen it, we have waited for it and it is 15 days after we confirm it'. And now, I ask the Minister, like you who move your head dear friends and friends, I ask you in Thessaloniki what happened? Well in Thessaloniki. Pieria? In Carditsa? On our islands? Until yesterday in Achaea? What happened there? Has the infection reached the population from these defenseless, leftists, anarchist communists, who gathered up to finally demand that the deviled fascism be taken away from our homeland? This has been our fault for the coronary, or has it - as I have said before - and I will not sacrifice my speech on this - the fact that you opened the border, let me say completely naively, not to say a worse word, at the time when we had zero cases both in Athens, in the urban centres and in the islands? You opened the border, sampled to no test in the first month, resulting from zero cases throughout the country in early August, a hundred cases throughout the country at the end of August - early September. Now, you know what? Since the first day I entered here, ladies and gentlemen, since the first day that I was honoured by the Greek people to send me to this Parliament, I have systematically noticed and systematically denounced this theater of the absurdity that is unfolding every day, a play of insanity given every day by this party that I am now. And what is the scandal? For the public this crazy theatre, the theatre, the theatre of the absurd, has all of us, the representatives of our National Representation: Budgets, bills, economic policy, ways of dealing with our major national issues, all of them all come ready, cut and sewn from Brussels and then all of you - I am sorry, you have done so in the past years - and pretend that you have thought about them, you have developed them, you have put them in public consultation and you are bringing them to the vote and implementation. Do you ever wonder if anyone believes you in this country? You're wondering? I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, of the present, but I also regret the previous government, that no one believes you anymore. And then you will reasonably tell me: “Why did they vote for us, Gregoriadis? Why did they vote for us if they do not believe us?' But, in order to escape the previous ones who had voted to escape from the previous ones, that is, the miracle again, you. This dishonest circle, Mr President, must be stopped. Greek people, citizens, if you listen to us on television, it's a national cheque to stop. And we'll stop him. Who are we? We 3% of the Greek people who trusted us? Oh, no. No, away from us such arrogances from so little aboy. We, the Mera25, along with the 100% of the Greek people, who will finally stand united and agitated as a fist to you. You have your channels, your repressive mechanisms, your MATs and clerks fighting, dog fight to avoid the awakening of our people. On the other hand, we only have the truth. And you know what, ladies and gentlemen? It's enough for us, and we're spared. The performance you are trying to set up with mad anguish these days in the House, both you, Mr Tsipras, and you, Mr Mitsotakis, are a bad performance for a false battle that will eventually show only the best fit man in the memorandum. To leave, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Mr. Stavuras? He says he's leaving? Running! He should have left yesterday. To leave as soon as possible, the better for our place, but to leave to what come to his place? The policies you have implemented? The policies implemented by SYRIZA for four consecutive years with Mr Tsakalotos? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You only use a major parliamentary procedure to replace the one who now gives it all to the banks with his right hand and to return the one who gave it all to the banks with the left, asking us at the same time - so Mr Tsakalotos did - apologise to every one that he could not do. We told him: "If you vote for a memorandum, then you're sixty years, don't you go to rule? You're like this!' But there is one truth, ladies and gentlemen, that you also refuse to see, both our current and our previous governors, all of you do not want to see, your false battles are not going to last for long, you know why? Because it's been real fights since spring. The world will defend its homes and shops, what people have built with so much effort and work will not give it to your predatory funds and banks, the ones you have recapitalised with its own money, our world, with 106 million euros, 56 million euros directly recapitalisations and your guarantees to get liquidity from the European Central Bank. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be done in seconds, Mr. President. You have grabbed wages, pensions, fund reserves, public property, you have overtaxed, and now you go and grab the only thing that remains and massively, the individual property. Have you realised that with your Banking Code you are flying in the trash of more than six hundred thousand fellow people, that you are going to close 80% of small and medium-sized enterprises? You've been voted on. Yeah. But you were voted on because you gave them growth. What do you think? That he's in your pocket? It's not in your pocket. Do you think they'll be on the sidewalk and applauded when the MATs throw them out of their homes? It won't be. We know the final battle will be given out on the streets, not in here. It will be given to society, and we in Mera25 will be there, as we are already there, a brother of the people who no one defends, except perhaps the Communist Party that puts its backs on it. You, again, MPs and majority ministers know well where you will be, will be on the side of the clerks and MATs who will execute the orders of the bankers. Finally, you, on the other hand, have lost - I am sorry - the right to pretend that you are with us, with the people on our side. Do you know exactly when you lost that right? You lost it the historic evening of the 2015 referendum, when you eroded the "no", "yes" night, and since then you lose it every day. So you lost it in December 2017, the day you criminalized the fight to defend the first home, voting, Mr. Tsipras, the famous peculiar name. Rejoice, it's not left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u160	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u161	The previous speaker and other speakers have raised some of the issues I have to answer. Here is a glorious trilogy: Appeals court, fourteen-year-old and Poppas. At the courtroom, the GAAP video showed who started the incidents. One week you were yelling about the police to wake up ghosts. I told you, the army remains left for you, cannot become an army, because you have no opinions, you have no beliefs, you have only anachronistic cries. Nobody really listens to them. As far as the other issue, with the fourteen-year-old, where did you find all these hurtful fairy tales? Aren't you ashamed to make soap operas, play with children so manipulated, with all this exploitation? First lie: “He was arrested without any accusations.” The truth is, prosecutor and juvenile interrogator didn't let him go. They ordered his detention for felony acts. We note that nine out of ten juvenile cases are not detained. So who judges what is right, justice or someone from this Chamber in here? Second lie: “They isolated him in detention in the GDR. He didn't even see his mom." The truth is, he saw them all as much as he wanted his mom and his lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u162	Bravo! Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u163	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u164	The third lie: "He was sleeping on the floor". The truth is, he was sleeping in his bed at the Juvenile Subdirect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u165	In his bed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u166	Did he have a veil?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u167	Go there and see exactly how the conditions are and how good there are. I said that with youth, there is a serious and comprehensive matter. We have a responsibility to support youth, because their situation is unbearable. Nobody wants to hunt for fourteen years. But the police don't have choices when molotovs explode. We must make that very clear. Is it a solution to make the wrong eyes? At the appeal in pursuit, rain fell from molotov. Many of them were from minors. Don't the police see it? For the golden, fugitive Poppa, you have given all your strength, your change. You thought the police and Chrysochide at last didn't make it. In fact, you're asking us to violate rule of law and watch a defendant who was until yesterday the Pope. You requested the same thing a few days ago for the Rabbit who - as you know - has immunity. Also, you are quite ironic that the homes of all the defendants were under surveillance. There are also such issues that the police can supervise homes by the prosecutor. And finally, what do you want? Tell us. May we allow lynching to satisfy the common sense? And you want to be called "Left" all of you, who, by such a violation of laws, filled cemeteries and sighed in prisons and dry land?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u168	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u169	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u170	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u171	Wear the mask when you talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u172	Are you president? Presiding?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u173	Do you copy the behavior of others? I haven't given you the floor and lower your tone, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u174	Please! You passed here as a comet to tell us what? Can you point us to our work? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u175	They're insulting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u176	Please, Mr. Bogdano. You don't have the floor. SYRIZA's colleagues too, please calm down, because the time lost is at the expense of colleagues. Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u177	I would like to make this clear, and I would like to ask for information from both the Chamber and the Greek people. The Greek Police's obligation in relation to the Poppa was to present every 1st month at the Pappa. Go every 1st of the month and give the present. The last time was October 1st. But I want to tell you this, and I say it about those sensitive to Golden Poppa, today a fugitive. In September 2015, the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Government changed the restrictive conditions imposed by the previous Board of Prosecutors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u178	It's SYRIZA's fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u179	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u180	Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u181	You don't sound. Mr. Skourlet, please, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u182	Be careful, the truth will be heard and I will tell you everything, because everyone needs to be informed. I say, therefore, that the Board of Appeal from three times a month here did so once and on a restrictive condition every night compulsory to sleep at the Pappa's house, that he abolished it. In other words, if there was this restraining term sleeping every night at his house, the police had to go to his house every night. All this changed to SYRIZA. You will say, "But it's because of SYRIZA? Independent justice shall be the responsibility of." There was, then, a Minister of Justice and there were other competent ministers who could go to the prosecutor of the Ice Bay and ask for strict conditions. But you didn't. And today you come here and you really ask for the change. Look, you are in a triple deadlock: In a populist retreat, inner-party rupture and in political poverty. Permit dangerous weapons to survive: Ethnicism with twelve miles, populism with the Pope and the fourteen-year-old and social conservatism with this motion of censure you are making. Of course there is something else and I want to tell you directly and not insignificantly. Target with hostility and system. Now you're targeting the police and Chrysochide, but you're hopelessly uncomfortable, and I'll tell you why. Look, the horror and the fight are you. In demonstrations in Athens, in the first seven months of 2019 in your governance, you dropped two thousand hundred and thirty-five chemicals and tear gas. Since August 2019, that is, from our own governance to today, fourteen months, a greater number of protests fell seventy-seventy-eight tear gas. I submit the relevant document proving the truth. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In other words, in half the time, in fewer demonstrations, we had three times as many chemicals. Who lives in the lies of his slogans, who's scared and who's pressing? And one final question and I close: you give it all for the Pope, but not because the chief of the Golden Dawn is dangerous and escaped. I see you shine with joy. You give it all to get glamorous, to enjoy "the gafa", the "Chrysochoid, Police," as you call it. I ask you directly because you're so happy. When we arrest him, why arrest him, will you be so happy? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u183	The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsis, has asked for the floor for a short speech. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u184	Just for a minute, Minister. They are responsible and, in any case, all the questions you raised have been or will be answered. I just want to talk to you about one issue. I am really surprised that today, 15 days after the break-up of the great anti-fascist event in front of the courtroom, you are coming here to Parliament and insisting on incredible inaccuracies, arising from the electronic material you have also given as the GAAP and independent networks for that day. It follows from this that it had nothing to do with the very small incident with your statement a quarter later, that six hundred molotovs fell from a hundred fifty people and while the chemicals continued to fall to Alexandra and to Kifissia. None of this happened. I'm asking you directly. Was it predetermined to dismantle the anti-fascist event and even of a world rejoice in the court's decision on the guilt of Golden Dawn as a criminal organization? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] She was premeditated, she was premeditated, she was operationally ready on your side and in the knowledge of the Prime Minister? Because you really did make a point on that historic day and took responsibility for yourself as Minister of Civilian Protection, without mercy, completely against tens of thousands of people. How do you come after 15 days and say these inaccuracies? Bring the electronic material, bring all the data to see that you are completely out of reality and finally tell us when, since when the dissolution of the great anti-fascist event was decided and whether it was in the Prime Minister's knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u185	Mr Minister, please, I would ask my colleagues, following the reply to the President, to give the floor to my fellow Members. Mr Boutsikakis has been waiting for some time already. Minister, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, Mr Voutsi, I am not really surprised that you said the same thing to me this evening in front of me when some provocators dismantled the concentration and threw molotovs at MATs. I am not surprised that you raise these issues. For the decision and functioning of the court, the police took many steps to function perfectly and safely in order to function the court. And that's how it happened. As it took too many steps to work and make the demonstration of tens of thousands of people perfect. Some, Mr President, just the same ones as those in the Constitution, attacked the MATs, threw molotovs, broke ten buses of MATs and attempted to set fire on certain buses. The molotovs are counted, Mr President. It's a hundred and fifty. Also, Mr President, the whole picture given by the GATS by the drone is the undisputed witness. I'm really not surprised at all. But I am surprised that you come here and you raise the same issues that you wrongly raised that night when we passed the Merger Act. You asked for my own and my colleague, Mr Economou, to resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u187	We're continuing the process. Mr. Butsikaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. It would be a good thing if we did not forget in this Chamber, gentlemen, who were the ones who worked for this historic day of the condemnation of the Golden Dawn. Some people in this government have decided and worked as they should. This day came and this fascist organization was finally condemned. And that wasn't in SYRIZA's day. You couldn't find a room to make this trial. Done at New Democracy. Thank you very much for that. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, who in 2015 received an economy to rise and returned it to the recession, is today questioning the policy of the New Democracy. SYRIZA legislated the electronic auctions, which horizontally abolished the protection of the first house, from the slogan "no house in the hands of a banker" we went to the Tsakalotou doctrine, resulting in more than five thousand auctions in a year and a half. SYRIZA imposed and maintained the capital controls. SYRIZA belongs to the sad pan-European capital when in 2017 we had the highest wage reduction in our country, compared to all of Europe, by 3.5%. SYRIZA according to OECD figures with 2017 tax latitude made our country a world champion in tax increases. SYRIZA has many other foundations and discrimination. You have legislated, gentlemen, on counter-population and increased a total of twenty-nine taxes. You increased VAT, business tax, dividends, tax advances, solidarity levy, income tax. You charged fixed telephony, mobile, Internet, pay-TV. You broke the pensioners' income. You have put in place financial counter-incentives against early retirement. You have increased health contributions to the main pensions and have introduced subsidiary contributions. You reduced the pensioners' income in 2016-2017 by 700 million euros. You abolished the ESS. Finally, Mr. Katrugalos cut off the pensions. At least 20%. On the contrary, this government here in New Democracy, in the midst of the pandemic, in the midst of the health crisis, succeeded and created a package of fifty-nine meters that would exceed a total of EUR 24 billion. We strengthened and shielded the National Health System. We have supported financially the affected, the unemployed, the seasonal workers. We supported employment and prevented redundancies. We supported vulnerable borrowers. We have created liquidity tools for the real economy with the culmination of the repayable advance. There's more coming. The unprecedented overall liquidity injection will exceed 11 billion euros. We've reduced the income tax advance. We have covered insurance contributions from the state budget. We reduced VAT on services and products. We are legislating to reduce the private sector's insurance contributions. At the same time as the health crisis, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, we are facing the Turkish challenge, the unprecedented expansionist and revisionist attitudes of Mr Erdogan, the results of your own policies. We have gained respect for the partners and the support of the international community. Amongst all this, you play with the institutions, with the parliamentary institutions to serve your own small-party interests. No seriousness. You have tabled a motion of censure for a minister who, over a year, has worked out fourteen bills for the economy. As a government, what else did we do? We completely abolished the capital controls. We have improved the framework for arrangements for citizens' debts. We have simplified procedures for the protection of first residence with the GEOGRAPHY programme. We have completed the repayment of the exact portion of the IMF loans. We unlocked flagrant investment projects, like the Greek one. We have launched aid plans, sustainability of public companies. We have implemented the plan 'HERAKLIS'. We have established the micro-finance framework. We have promoted tax interventions with incentives to boost the country's growth and competitiveness. We have created a new progressive tax scale for natural persons, starting from 9% for low incomes to 10,000 euros. We have reduced the tax rate on businesses and dividends. We have reduced by 50% the tax rate for start-ups. We suspended VAT on the building. We are exempting people with disabilities from the solidarity levy. We gave birth benefits to fight subgenitality. We've increased the tax-free for every child. We've reduced VAT on baby goods. We have given strong tax incentives for investment in the green economy, energy and digitisation. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has successfully completed four evaluations. It successfully came out seven times on the markets, with lower borrowing interest in the country's history, even with negative interest rates. The economic climate of Greece has reached the highest in the past twenty years. The absorption of the NRP has doubled. We are now in the eighth place and are in the first place in European grants. I could tell you a lot of things, but the scale, you know, goes this way. They came here, invested in Greece, invested in this government: 'MICROSOT', 'PFIZER', 'SISCO', all of us trust us, here they deposit their money, here they invest them. But we must not forget what SYRIZA's policy was. Ladies and gentlemen, with so much self-government, the motion of censure should really turn against yourself, not against Mr Staikoura, whom I support and vote against the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u189	The next speaker is Mr Constantine Barkas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u190	The government's plan, as tabled by Mr Chrysochide, is 'news and water'. And since Mr Chrysochoidis has left, we have the honour of being with us, the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, to hear the successes of the government, Chrysochoidis and himself in the last few days. The draft of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, as this has been developing in recent years, Mr Economou, for the arrest of the Chrysayites has a key pillar: volunteering. This is what you develop. Any convicted one wants surrender. Anyone who wants, "he's doing", he's leaving, he's hiding. In the fourteen-year-olds, Mr. Economou, you're going well: Wood, threats, MATs, leaving the squares, leaving their homes, lock them down for four days in the GDR. What did you do about the golden people? Mr Balaskas comes out and says: "The criminals doomed to crime are in our eye, we have them. Not even in one trillion will they leave." Mr. Economou, where is Mr. Pappas? You know? Do you know each other? You arrested him? For three days Pappas has been somewhere else. You don't know where he is. This is yours, Chryssohoidis and, obviously, your political leader, Mr Mitsotakis. It is your third day and your third success, Mr. Economou: First, Christoforikos. She left, she went to Germany to stay. Secondly, Ragos, also condemned, fled as a gentleman from the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos". Third great success of the government, the lieutenant of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas. These three successes have a name and are called 'New Democracy'. That's what you've done so far at the Citizen's Department. I will now reach another minister who said something great. Why is the law we are discussing today good? Because - he says - whoever loses his house will find a good job next and he will be able to get it back. Who said that? Georgiadis. Yes, sir! Do you know what field we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen? At a time when unemployment is growing, when a number of former workers are out of work, what are you telling them? "With the Banking Code you will lose your home, but you will find a good job to get it back." How? Since unemployment is growing. Where are these people going to work? You're making fun of people in their faces. Of course, when you do not want to talk about something, when you do not want to get into the bottom of the debate, you put the Members of the New Democracy, who otherwise are worthwhile people, a man from the New Democracy Press Office, who writes you chats with popy-paste and come and say exactly the same things here. You're actually going into the bill? Why is the submission of the motion of censure not for the new witness, the second Moses, then - what did he call it, Mr Economou, your State Secretary? - the terrible one and the only Mr. Mitsotakis. He's not a loyal witness, Mr. Stourras. The debate is about the Banking Code, which, obviously, along with the help of the media that supports you, is very much in keeping with what it contains. What do you think? That 'we will compare two policies'. But we won't compare two policies. Firstly, because you have taken over the governance of the country and, therefore, we will compare what you have done so far and, of course, we will also compare the content of the bill that we have been discussing in the previous period. The motion of censure against Mr Stakoura - rather than the witness of Stakoura - was not a communication political choice, but a political one. The government has brought in a bankruptcy law that abolishes all protection of first residence. I'm not saying it. Mr Simopoulos from Thessaloniki, your MP, said that "yes, the protection of the first residence is abolished". And, of course, others have said so, all the social actors: GSEWE, chambers, the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations. All the top officials who went through the committee said that you are abolishing the protection of first residence, which you do not want to discuss. Obviously, for us the only institutional weapon we have in our hands was not to hide behind a two-day debate in which the media that supports you did not make any mention, but to come here to the suffering of the mourning day to discuss the substance of the bill. And you will pass through this suffering. You won't talk about other things, about irrelevant things. So the bill says a lot of very nice things. Members of the New Democracy, who were not here over the period 2012-2019, remind you that the draft law we had two days ago in Parliament did not dare to propose it as a bill nor the International Monetary Fund. And you deserved lads and daughters, friends of the International Monetary Fund, to bring in a bill that no one had imagined. What do you tell people? You say that "Lords, you will all go bankrupt, you will be forced to go bankrupt for all natural persons, the ownership of the first residence will be lost". So you secretly reduce the inconvenience to 611 euros from the 1,200 that is now. He's going to be the tenant in his house. This isn't all of your concern, but are you talking about what? Around 'winds and water'. I'm going to invoke a great project, which, I imagine, you don't know. It is called "Our great circus", which in a reversal of the song says - it is written for you, it is written for the bill that you have brought to the vote in the House - "the foreign bankers have been shaving as well". For what? For the homes of the world. Society sees a government, your government, that takes their houses out to the hammer. So we call on society from here to stand up to your own policy, to the policy of extermination of people from their homes, to the political and social analgesia that you are showing. Mr. Economou, I'll come back to you. In the fourteen-year-olds you get along: Wood! The people who lose their homes well get along: they're beaten! We'll see pictures like in Spain. To Golden Papa, though, nothing to talk about. Third day you're looking for him, and if you'll find him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Economou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this spool with the Pope and with the Golden Dawn I think you should once finish and see and respect reality. Because the processions and the setting-up of the Golden Dawn criminal organization have now begun, it has nowadays ended, and it has been in prison for these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u194	Where's the Pope, will you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u195	For Mr Papapas, others have created the legal framework which has enabled him to be a fugitive so easily today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u196	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u197	Please! Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u198	Trust the Greek Police, in its effectiveness, and very soon it will be brought where Mr. Pappas should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u199	You know, fourteen-year-olds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u200	As regards the fourteenth year old, Mr Chrysochoidis told you before that by decision of the prosecutor of minors and the judge of minors, he was charged with felony and his detention was ordered. As far as the conditions of detention are concerned, you got an answer. All pre-examination actions for the minor became the presence of his mother and the presence of the lawyer, such as our legal order and our legal culture impose. For Mr Rabbit, you know very well that there is no exit ban.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u201	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u202	Make sure you get properly informed. For Mr Rabbit, all there is is to say is that whenever he travels, he must present himself to the services of the airport and indicate the place he goes and when he comes, too, where he will remain. It's moving freely. It has no ban on exit and enjoys immunity as a Member of the European Parliament for the time being. Once respect the constitutional order and the legal framework in this direction and do not be self-evident protectors of the molotovs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We will give the floor to my colleague Maria - Alexandra Head from the New Democracy. Mrs Liikolis, Mr Economou, then we will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, 'no house in the hands of a banker'. That is what we heard and heard again from SYRIZA and his leadership, ladies and gentlemen, with a veil, as if they meant it. The result? Twenty - six thousand auctions took place in less than a year and a half of their governance. You have legislated, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in May 2017, for the first time in Greek reality, electronic auctions. From November 2017 until June 2019, twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy-two auctions took place. And now you are criticising a bill aimed at avoiding the debtor's bankruptcy, regulating his debts, a second chance to all those who want to settle their finances, to all those who want to be householders. Because you don't like the household. You don't like class and progress. You were the one who received the economy on the rise and delivered it to a recession. It was you who increased taxes and contributions. You brought in an abortion law for the insurance. You have defined insurance contributions according to the income of the selfemployed worker. You've kneeled the middle class. And of course, you abolished the protection of first residence in 2015, after 2017 and definitively in 2019. You left unprotected and only the first residence, but not only it, and the salaries, pensions, bank accounts and all the property of the Greeks. In government SYRIZA, beyond tens of thousands of auctions, millions of bank confiscations were issued. Step by step - we tried to rebuild the problem you delivered us. We've reduced HISBIA. We have reduced the rates for the taxation of free traders, companies, employees and pensioners. We have improved the settlement of debts to the tax administration. We have increased the doses of fixed regulation from twelve to twenty-four and conditional to twenty-four to forty-eight. We have taken timely and effective measures against the effects of the coronary pandemic. We extended the previous extremely limited framework to protect the first residence by seven months and simplified the procedures for joining this programme. We have enabled the 'GEOFHYRA' programme to support borrowers affected by the financial impact of the krone. We have strengthened the development process of the Greek economy with a microfinance framework, with tax intervention and investment incentives. We suspended tax obligations. We have charged allowances for households' first needs, infrastructure allowances, compensation to farmers. We are bringing to Parliament a new framework for dealing with the high private debt in order to regulate debt and provide a second chance. How are you, SYRIZA colleagues? You are making an untimely and unfortunate proposal of distrust, at a time when we are fighting a multi-faceted battle, against the pandemic of the coronary and its consequences and against Turkish provocativeness. You do not have the necessary social and political responsibility to weigh things out. You cannot, as a political party, assess what is the best and most beneficial for our country at any time. The Greek society that is watching us, however, is aware of the truth. Other information: (a) He is a member of the Security Council of the Russian Federation. (b) He is a member of the Security Council of the Russian Federation. (c) He is a member of the Security Council of the Russian Federation. (d) He is a member of the Security Council of the Russian Federation. That was the supposed protection he offered. We, Minister of Cyprus Stakoura and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, are now establishing the protection of first residence as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households, as a permanent programme, without duration or deadline. We provide a comprehensive solution to the problem of overcompensation for households with an out-of-court mechanism, with payment in up to two hundred forty instalments for banks, loan managers and public authorities. You call him "government law" emphasizing the bankruptcy of the debtors, in order to mislead, alter its purpose. The purpose of the law is the opposite. It's avoiding bankruptcy. Today, if a debtor does not pay his debts, his creditors are seizing and auctioning. This is the framework for the protection of first residence inherited by SYRIZA. And once they get him the whole property and his first residence, since there's no protection, then the citizen continues to owe him. With the draft law under discussion, therefore, we provide a real second opportunity for the debtor to start a new start, without debts, with a view to clearing, rescuing, rescuing, rescuing his home, restoring financially on his feet. Ladies and gentlemen, timely and effective measures have been taken to strengthen all the sectors affected by the pandemic. Measures were taken to compensate households and businesses affected by extreme weather. Stakoura Ministerial VAT decreased, the income tax rates fell, the corporation tax decreased. You've increased taxes, we're reducing taxes. Investment incentives have been introduced under Stavura. The new framework for the protection of first residence has been established by Stagira, which you have abolished, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA. SYRIZA ruled, the people judged. So with regard to today's despair movement, with regard to this act of disresponsible irresponsibility, it is once again confirmed that you are outside political reality. Listen to it to inspire it well. The government is possible, our parliamentary group united. Citizens trust Mr. Mitsotakis. And you quickly head to where you belong at 3%. I declare my trust in the person of the Minister of Finance, Christos Stakoura, and I am voting against the motion of distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mrs Chapter and the economy in time. Before the next speaker, Mrs Likael Evangelia, comes up at Step, I would like us to consult with the House on something. You are well aware of the number of registered speakers. We can imagine that by noon tomorrow morning - early in the afternoon they will not be able to speak about fifty colleagues. In order to enable them to speak as many as possible, I would propose from the eighth, that is to say, to end the seventh cycle, to reduce the time by one minute, at six, with a view to seven and at the same time to reduce the time by one minute, and to reduce the time of the Ministers, the Parliamentary representatives, etc. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u206	I think you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u207	We do not agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u208	Okay, record KINAL's disagreement, Mr. Kegeroglu. Come on, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after all this life is full of surprises. Such a convenient proposal of distrust from the Qualified Opposition to a key member of the government who would expect it? A regular gift, a motion of distrust only in the face of the tsar of our economy, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stakoura. What a perfect timing! Benefit of the process and the Government, also benefiting from the Remuneration. A half-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three toy to say, "Have you seen everything I've thrown? " And the other half say, "Have you seen what I did and got?" However, despite the tie match, my dear, there are serious injuries and the tidal can no longer be seen as indifferent and indifferent. The whole political system, parliamentarianism, and also the citizens. The snake that bites its tail, the circle that is squared or the folk's hole in the water, are appropriate titles for this motion of distrust, a play in the hands of the two gladiators of power. The citizens, of course, are in this. I'd say the opposite, they're probably suspicious now. Who, really, do you think you're convinced of your good intentions, gentlemen of Officer Opposition? A micronomial political tactic is the submission of the motion of distrust by SYRIZA when you are accused only of the Minister. I can already hear you, the deep sigh of relief from the side of the New Democracy, from the seats of its MPs, who I see as well rallyed, united after your own proposal, which you submitted only to the person of the Minister, as if he were the only one responsible for the overall destructive policy of the Government of New Democracy. You have finally reached an exceptionally important parliamentary procedure to kill it jointly and by a prior study with number one SYRIZA that caused this three-day parliamentary procedure, unresolved, without any comprehensive plan, without any complete government counter-proposal. What do you think? We are not clear to you to talk about the Banking Code, as you have all the previous ones, which you have and put on the front line formerly-classified ones who today fall away, assembling a whole series of old theorists, who I have to confess too much from this Step and of course putting in the fight former first-class strains of PASOK present today kings, those who mainly presided over today by SYRIZA as a matching pair of generalists against tsarou, the former members of the renovating Left, the built-in light right of ANELs - from all of them, and also by creating lately and some centrifuge leftists - are also in my place - that every bitter and I think so-called. Tempora, the more, would say both the poet and the historian, but also every careful one in the details. SYRIZA, then, who has always fainted in all polls lately does nothing but relieve Mr. Mitsotakis and his government of the handling of all the permeable issues about our national situation, the economy, society, the management of pandemic and foreign policy. And of course, if you question me, why am I a member of the Change Movement, what do you have to say about your partner? On the left, does your partner, with the right to remind you of the inclusive and classic 'who speaks', but also of the popular 'Who speaks' and of 'Who speaks'? You.’ Subtitle: Now did you remember Alexis auctions? Now that you've been in the Opposition? When you were a government, the peacehouses, which didn't help you, were squeezing every Wednesday, because people were getting too crowded out. You took the peacehouses, and you finally took them to the notaries. And then you built that notorious part of the protection of the state and of the democratic culture - in SYRIZA, please, it became this section - and you even turned the fight for the protection of the first home into a specific crime, which only the PASOK protected in the history of postmulsion. Catapult, then, your companion does not let you cover in the sand what you want to forget. And let's go to count two to the Government of New Democracy. Neither little nor much have I embodied these days, proud of the wisdom, with a narrow voice you come here to support a minister, who did nothing really but self-evident, self-evident for a right-wing government, the will of the real rulers, that is, banks. Here comes your will, said Mr. Staruras at the banks. So what he was for, that's what man did. Is that exactly the problem? Is that how we emphasise the responsibility of the government collectively at all levels, which is slipping from a strangler? What works and days do I refer to? At the "Symbol of Elicikos" and "Metzi of the newcomer" alabours of the programs of the KEK that have become international online with all that you have done. With the money of the Greek taxpayers you wanted to make a crazy party at the same time as the small ones, the provincial ones, the KEKs, because along with the dry, the green ones, the waffles of the biopale, that is. In the fading and re-establishing and rebuilding migration policy and the competent agency with posters, you broke the bank, you get over SYRIZA as well. No time limits at all, it's rocky for the citizens of Europe. By way of derogation, 12 articles in any sense of good legislature go for a walk. Unprecedented in the crisis, unfortunately, the way you behave. In our national themes, the Turkish oceanography "Oruts Race" tends to become a Ferrobot and make a local route to the islands of the Greek bourgeois line, beyond - here, inside - completely undisturbed by everyone. You don't care at all, nor do you care about the Change Movement that keeps calling: "Come and sit down on the table, national understanding and council of political leaders." Unfortunately, your favorite table to remember that it will be a Christmas game, will it transcend sales and "Monopoly" will certainly be "Here's a priest, there's a priest, where is the Pope?" Such a fiasco cannot be lifted, nor can you, together with who discreetly watched all those people all these days. Well, things are very simple. The public outcry that currently exists for government policies has a handkerchief, a cloak, has the pandemic that sows fear to all of us in the world, because it has to do with negotiation with human life. When this goes away with the good and we will all welcome his departure then see how and the last fig sheet will fall and no one will be able to cover what is not covered. In recent days, unfortunately, we have seen too much to bring legislation. I personally see in the field of public administration and self-government a rapacious self-government walking around licking its wounds and unfortunately this is why you will be accountable. It turns out that you unfortunately do not love our people, you do not share our people. For you, unfortunately, people are only system numbers. Otherwise, Prime Minister - and I am addressing you at this step - you would not leave on the road the women slaughtered by the Katorugalo law who have been expelled by your laws. If you cared, you wouldn't let him shine on the regional press calling today and yesterday, because you get them 2% more than the contributions. If you cared, you would not leave - and I am finishing with this phrase - after you have visited "funny" with helicopters, Prime Minister and Minister, our regions affected by Janus. You left us alone in the gutter, in the mud fighting. We have a schedule and we have a proposal. We're different and we're not the same. We show the moon, look at the finger. We're mitigating ourselves straight toward you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u210	The next speaker is Mr Economou John from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, Greece today is at a very critical crossroads. We are faced with many and great challenges from those that countries are dating every forty to fifty years. At the moment, SYRIZA has chosen, pretending to fight for the protection of first residence, to table a motion of censure with the Minister of Finance. Hypocrisy is so obvious that it makes an eye. There is no need for any proof or arguments from our side, it is enough for your policy and your laws, when you abolished the protection of first homes, when you introduced electronic auctions, when you attended by your ministerial offices twenty-five thousand auctions and more than five thousand auctions, when you legislated the self-prosecuting and self-determination for those who prevented the auctioning, when you kept committed to bankruptcy for a life or, rather, for more than a life as the debts followed and the next generations if the liquidity of the property was not enough for the people they owed. With this given fact that the stones in this country now know and the stones in this country really know what desperation has led you to make this impoverished and doomed in advance to failure. Objections, of course, can be enough. Indeed, if one sees your picture today - I'm watching the meeting from the beginning - he understands that there can be much more. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have eighty-six Members and during today's debate you were not at best more than ten! Is this a picture of a parliamentary group that wants to corner the government, highlight issues, reveal its shadow? However, instead of dealing with speculation, I think it is much more useful to make use of the possibility of the proposal of form, in order to highlight in terms of political, worthy and social terms the great differences we have in behaviour and political perception. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we are different because we see Greece otherwise. Perhaps this 'other than' is what characterizes the governance of the New Democracy, this 'otherwise' is what it characterizes Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In our national issues with design and soundness, we face all the challenges. At the same time that by delimiting the maritime zones with Egypt and Italy we are raising Greece, we do not allow Turkey to encroach on us in deadlocks and painful national dilemmas. And these results are due to a multi-faceted preparation rather than improvisations of the moment or worse in a tooling of Turkish provocativeness for internal conflict. The three powers of the state are again distinct, and as a result, confidence in the institutions will allow us instead of irresponsible slogans, our Government will go ahead with a well thought-out planning. Instead of the blurredness of a total overthrow, we are making fundamental and realistic reforms. Instead of polarization, we follow the path of political modesty. We are shaping a national development strategy taking into account the starting point, the macroeconomic and financial conditions, structural weaknesses, institutional shortcomings and the advantages of the country. In future we are rebuilding the state, because, ladies and gentlemen, the state is not a shop for us. The state is the guarantor of our lives and security, it is the guarantor of our personal and social security and national sovereignty. That is precisely why we are making the best use of the involvement of the state. We are reconstructing public administration, moving towards the digital transformation of the public administration and establishing a new type of sustainable social state. The country becomes an active player in vital areas of energy, technology, IT and telecommunications. Instead of state support to large and infested entrepreneurs, as you falsely claim, we invest money to create ecosystems and investment tools that will promote innovation and stimulate new ideas, jobs and careers in new and restless spirits. With this policy, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of every indiscretion, we will succeed in preventing social inequalities from getting any further deepening up, and we will be able to prevent the widening of poverty and social exclusion, which has in the past led to desperate and irreversible populaces in turmoil and foreign arms, and in yours and others. The foundation of this effort, ladies and gentlemen, is to respect the intelligence and memory of the citizens. In simple terms, that is, we do not feel that we are talking to fewer or goldfishes. That is why the country, which is why society has again become a sense of leadership. On the contrary, you, in the SYRIZA, have no sense of the demands and priorities, of the citizens' demands from politics. And worst of all, you seem to have no sense of the dangers of the period that we are going through. That is why you have an absolute impossibility not to consume, but to monitor the reason for the government's policy. So you do what you know very well, serve anger, easy theories and poisonous personal attacks to anyone who disagrees with you. And while you are hostages of these features and without alternatives, you have nothing left to you but to resort to these dead-end choices, such as the motion of distrust, a motion of distrust that we vote against not only because it lacks every political seriousness, but because, as I said at the beginning, we differ, because we see Greece otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much for your colleague and for the consistency in time. The Minister for the Environment and Energy now has the floor, Mr Hatzidakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really the strangest motion of censure I have seen in the years that I have been following political things both in Greece and abroad. It is not just because at the time when Greece is dealing with the coronary and its consequences on the one hand and with Turkey's challenges on the other, the motion of censure is on the other, it is not just because it is not about an alleged scandal, as is often the case in all countries, it is not just because it is not about an ex-institutional political behaviour of a minister, but it is because it is about a bill that the Minister had every right to testify, and even more so a bill that is in complete harmony with the election programme of the New Democracy. That is what we had said in an election, and that is what we are doing with the bill tabled by Mr Stavouras, and for which he accepts a motion of censure by SYRIZA. It could be said that to some extent this motion of censure is against the Greek people who voted for New Democracy before the elections. That is where SYRIZA's political deadlocks lead and its need to be heard, as it has left behind in polling, in the wrong way, by doing an unharmed and unstable opposition. And who's doing all this? SYRIZA who on this particular subject reminds the killer who returns to the crime scene. I would like to say that SYRIZA is making a motion of censure to Mr Stakoura because it provides with the Finance Ministry's bill for dealing with the issue of red loans with the extrajudicial mechanism, with a payment of up to two hundred monthly instalments. Also, SYRIZA makes a motion of censure to Mr Stakoura, because this bill gives the opportunity for a second chance through bankruptcy, that is, if the debtor fails to pay back, and for him to get rid of the debt to make a new start. So SYRIZA, who makes a motion of censure to Mr. Stakoura about these harmful things - I don't know how they look at SYRIZA - is at the same time the party that in 2014 spoke, as it has been said - but it can't be repeated, because you are causing these answers - for "brokenness" and often repeated the slogan "no house in the hands of a banker". And then, after a first law brought in 2016, did he proceed to electronic auctions - or am I wrong? - and at the same time multiplied the auctions in relation to the past. Only within one year, between 2017 and 2018, an 185% increase was observed, according to ELSTAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u214	(Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u215	It was also the SYRIZA that, in February 2019, with Law 4592 abolished the protection of the first residence. Apparently, as he forgot his election promises in 2015, what he said until 2014, so he has now suffered political amnesia and forgot what he did by 2019. In 2019, however, by way of this law, it excluded those who had a red loan after 31 December 2018, it excluded those who could not meet its multiple eligibility criteria and the supporting documents required to be presented, the law that brought them lasted for only six months and limited to the regulation of first-resident loans, without any solution whatsoever on all other household issues. And that is why hundreds of thousands of debtors have succeeded and passed through the hole of this law, SYRIZA, only ninety thousand cases. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say on this particular motion of censure that for me it is ultimately a motion of censure for Mr Tsakalotos himself, for Mr Drasakis and for all the co-legislative ministers, who then brought the law of SYRIZA in 2019. That's what you did. Proposal of censure to yourself and you give us the opportunity to underline and remind the works and days of SYRIZA, condemned by the Greek people in July 2019, but obviously not all of this led you to do your self-criticism. You continue with the same arrogant and prosecutorial approach, to make this agarb critical. In any case, this motion of censure enables us, at least, to underline the time left to do so, not with great difficulty, in the motion of censure that this government is implementing its electoral commitments. This obviously also applies to our Ministry. In titles I will only remind you that we in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy have prevented the bankruptcy of PPC and laid the foundations for a new course of the company. We are giving a solution to the problem of LARCO after thirty-five years. We are adopting a forward-looking plan for liberating domestic electricity production. Accelerate the works of the island's electrical interconnections. All this and one and the other are green plays. As a green project is the new law on electricity and also, green project is the modernisation of environmental legislation, but also the simplification of the licensing of renewable energy sources. We have recently passed the law on the restriction of disposable plastics and, at the same time, tabled the national waste management plan by 2030, harmonising Greece with the existing ones in the European Union. We accelerated the processes of landfilling and dealt with urgent urban issues, such as the issue of Matty, the urban plan in Matti, the redevelopment of the IGC and the level of the Acropolis buildings. At the same time, we promoted and supported major international energy projects, such as the Greek-Bulgar gas interconnector - IGB, the LPG gas station in Alexandroupolis, the FSRU in Alexandroupolis, as is well known on the market and, of course, the EastMed gas pipeline, as we signed an intergovernmental agreement with Israel and Cyprus. And of course, after 15 months, which I described in titles, we move forward, according to our pre-election programme, to our Ministry with seven privatisations "DENP Infrastructure", "DENP Trade", "LARCO", DEDDEE, IPTOE, underground gas warehouse in Kavala and ELPE. That is what we have said in an election, that is what we have been systematically going on all the last time. We are moving on to modernise the electricity market by implementing the Target Model. We are the last country in the European Union that we have not implemented and SYRIZA who is making a motion of censure today has responsibilities, which is why we are applying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u216	Who voted for the box first...?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u217	We are implementing the 'Security - Autonomous' programme, which is the largest energy savings programme ever implemented in the country, EUR 850 million, which is also a green ecological programme. We are promoting the waste management bill by adapting Greece to the relevant European legislation. We are launching the creation of seventeen new waste treatment plants across the country - so many auctions will be in place by the end of the year - and so far I want to remind you of a recommendation from a Greek state only operates six units. We are promoting the bill on modernising spatial and urban legislation, which is a bill of intellect, a major reform which will shortly be tabled to the House, which seeks on the one hand to protect people's property from the other, which seeks to protect the environment and thereby gives even greater protection of property. We are also implementing the major programme for the development of local urban projects throughout Greece, so that we can put an end to unregulated development. Many of these actions will be supported by the Recovery Fund for which our Ministry is particularly interested, as it accounts for about 37% of the funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that today's motion of censure very simply showed that while the country has a number of challenges ahead, SYRIZA comes and deals with its existential problem. Because what else is it when it tables a motion of censure on a subject like what we have described. All he does is highlight his agony because he's left behind in polling. It wants to be heard strugglingly in Greek society, apparently choosing a completely wrong way. All I can tell you is a great 'thank you' because, with this motion of censure, you are first showing your inner-party problems, and secondly, the differences between the two parties, SYRIZA and New Democracy. It seems from the point of view of the motion of censure that you chose that you are a party that you are saying and unleashing, but by 2015, but from 2015 until 2019, other than the elections in 2019 and then, while we are stable on a line of responsibility, a European line, a line that is the only one that can give a solution to the problems of the country. Stay with your internal problems, we will deal with the great challenges of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much the Minister. Mrs. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Kontogeorgios, Mr. Stoltides, then Mr. Loverdos as Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement, then three MPs and then the Minister for the Interior, Mr. Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we hear from yesterday's government ministers amazed and exaggerated how Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA were able to table a motion of censure against Mr Stoura and even wonder what he has to do with today's situation...'', they tell us and most of the majority's colleagues, 'The Banking Law at a time when our country is currently facing so many major crises, such as the pandemic crisis, the crisis in national issues and so many problems'. But, Ministers of Government and ladies and gentlemen, the question that we are returning to you is ultimately if you are so detached from the Greek reality, from the economic and social reality that the Greeks are living today or are so cynical that you are using this very multi-crisis environment to impose the toughest form of a neoliberal agenda. Unfortunately, both apply. For we have tabled a motion of censure against a specific economic policy, which, on pretext and pandemic - but also earlier than the pandemic - goes ahead with a concrete plan of restructuring the economy at the expense of the small and medium-sized enterprises, the professionals, the people of fighting and, of course, for the benefit of the great and strong economic interests. And you, Minister, have spoken earlier, Mr Hatzidakis, and in your area we have seen the pandemic period, that you have brought in a number of regulations, so that you can proceed to privatisation in your place without any interest in the public interest. So, at the moment, the issue of bankruptcy law is at the very heart of this economic and social policy that you practice. It's the ridge. It is this turning point, which you really do not realize and you are not even interested in the impact it will have on Greek society. It is part of this broader project that you are implementing. In fact, you seek to implement it under a veil of silence. Feel safe behind this veil of silence and you can't see what's going on underneath it. You can't see what consequences this will have. You do not see, what consequences it has at the moment, when you dismantle labour relations, you are reducing wages, you are making bills - Mr Mitsotakis himself - which will bring about further flexibility and unpaid overtime. You do not see the consequences that you have not taken the measures needed for the pandemic, but you come and get rid of it. Also, with regard to the national crisis, problems with Turkey, there is no concern for you that there is no clear national strategy and that all these issues are not dealt with effectively at European Union level. And we have seen the results of the last two European Councils and what messages they have finally sent to the Turkish Government and President Erdogan. But there is one question here: do you not realize that national homogeneity beyond the strategy must be based on a country that has a strong society and social cohesion? How do you guarantee this social cohesion with your policy when you literally break down and put the wider social majority in a position? So you did not want this debate to take place. But we want to, because we want the Greek people to hear. We want him informed. We want to lift this veil of silence. And this three-day day here, in the House, he puts you all, each and every one of you before your responsibilities. It is also a three-day period that ensures the publicity of democracy and through the channel of the Parliament, precisely so that the Greek people can be fully informed. And the question is: How can you at this time defend - although of course we have seen that most of the MPs mainly opposed to SYRIZA have done rather than defended the content of the law. A law that is cut and sewn for banks and funds. A law that is actually impelled to bankruptcy - the first time is introduced in Greek law this extreme regulation - natural persons, households, workers. It pushed small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers, into bankruptcy and impoverishment. You who come from the region, to the farmers who are in danger of losing their fields, how will you answer them? And that is not the second chance you are introducing. It's the tombstone for all of this world. It is a permanent mortgage on the future of workers, professionals and farmers for the future. This tampering will always be broken with this institutional framework. And because here we have to tell truths and because you believe that through your communication superpower, truths will be hidden, I will mention four truths. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is what I shall close, Mr President. In SYRIZA there was protection of the first residence. Mr. Hatzidakis, there was protection of first residence. The 2019 Act protected the first residence. It was a transitional law. And you - and that is the second truth - are the ones who have abolished it and chose to bring this particular bill. At the moment in the European Union, in many countries, forced executions are suspended because of the pandemic. On the contrary, you do not care in the midst of pandemic. Because the European Union, in its directive, stated that there must be an institutional framework for the discharge for natural persons. It did not, however, require in any way that there should be bankruptcy of natural persons and the liquidation of their property, as you have brought it. You say she was on your election schedule. I remember you did a whole propaganda for the middle-class that you would support. And today, GSEBEE and all professional associations are against you today. But you don't care. You don't have an answer for them. So it is clear - because I was listening before Mr Georgiadis, who spoke about the point where the spiral is glowing, and even said that there is the trophy - that this bill, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, will be your turn. It is the point from which the wide-ranging social majority, not only will react, but it will decide that another path is necessary and feasible. And here we are to fight together with this social majority, along with the people you deny today to hear his agony and fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u220	Mr Konstantinos Kontogeorgios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, I believe you will agree with me that the last eight months that we are calling as a country and as citizens are unprecedented for all of us. The pandemic of the COVID pandemic -19 has shaken all organised societies and put the world economy in an unprecedented triumph and all citizens in great insecurity, both for the protection of their lives and for their professional prospects and survival. As if not all of this were enough, we Greeks coming out of a long-term economic crisis, suffering almost all of the extremist policies of SYRIZA - ANEL government, from February to today, are now facing immediate daily threats to the independence of our country by the unforeseeable majestic sultan. At these critical times for our country that is not recorded after World War II, the Greek people had the good fortune of having government over New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The Government of New Democracy has wisely and decisively protected - and protects - public health and tries in every way to alleviate the financial consequences of the pandemic. At the same time, with determination and courage, he faced - and faces - the constant challenges and threats of the spoiled and irrational neighbour, confirming security for all Greeks at every corner of our country, from Kastelorizo to Evros. In this environment, every sound Greek citizen requires that all the political forces of the country lift up to the occasion and unitedly respond to every threat and challenge, respecting the history of the nation and the sacrifice of our ancestors. Unfortunately, however, the opposition parties with few exceptions chose the irresponsible and populist path, writing their old shoes the country's interests and the security of Greek citizens. Yesterday, in the plenary debate on the draft law on the treatment of high private debt, the regulation of debts and the provision of a second chance, the Chief of Officerial Opposition - allegedly - tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Christos Staikos, the most successful, in my opinion, Minister of Finance of the last decade. He tabled a motion of censure, while the Loan Association confirmed that the draft law is in the right direction and gives a second chance to many citizens not to lose their property. After completing his walk to the place of Thessaly, filling with air words of tested citizens from the naturalities, with a lot of hypocrisy, at the same time the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the SYRIZA Group voted against the government's amendment to compensate for floods. After wearing the rebel farmer's uniform once again, she deplored the government for its agricultural policy with a lot of arrogance, at the very time when the Syriza MEPs voted against the common agricultural policy for farmers and farmers in the European Parliament. It is obvious that both the Chief of Staff Response, as well as the SYRIZA as a whole, are in complete confusion and political deadlock. The Greek people deprived them of the great power and sent them to the unanswered of political history. Who can forget their majesty and arrogantness, still characterizing the Great Maximos White House as American standards, touching the limits of left-wing self-government. The worst thing, though, is that SYRIZA systematically cheats and underestimates citizens with false promises, believing they forgot their government past. Who can forget the more memorial government that the place has ever known, the sale of national property to creditors, the more tax-fixing policy than migration to date, the increase in VAT from 13% to 24%, almost all goods and services, the increase in direct and indirect taxes and charges at all levels, the conclusion of wages and pensions for tax and even incomes below the poverty threshold? Who can forget the most convenient Greek Minister of Finance, in the opinion of the famous troika, about the effective imposition of taxes and measures to confiscate Greeks? The one who, without shame, said he would resign from a Minister, if tax-free was reduced, but forgot it at the critical moment. The one who abolished the protection of the first home in February 2019 brought the electronic auctions, stating that they are important and necessary, not only to have good banks, but also for development and social reasons. He who in his day became twenty-five thousand seven hundred sixty two electronic auctions with the blessing of SYRIZA, who chased their former partner Lafazan in the streets of the center and the Exarchites, threatening him by imprisonment for the last treason. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you must understand that. No citizen forgets your sinful government past. The motion of censure you have tabled, is a pretext to get out of time - better in cases - or to get your Chief rid of the annoying Mr Tsakalotos, since it is absolutely certain that all these days there will be unavoidable comparisons of finance ministers and politicians and that he will have his honour. Both the Government of the New Democracy and Mr Stagiras personally thank you for the unexpected gift, because Greek citizens will have the opportunity to see once again that the Government of the New Democracy and Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis are making every effort to make progress and prosperity for our national dignity. I could mention and analyse government policy, but within such a brief political speech, ladies and gentlemen, that is impossible. I shall therefore confine myself to saying that all citizens already know the results of the New Democracy Government's policy and welcome it with their daily confidence. The New Democracy is the only political force that can deal effectively and reliably with the complex and difficult problems that concern Greek society. The motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA was already set up with its statement, returned bomerang to him and his members. The Government of the New Democracy enjoys full confidence in the House. We, its Members, fully support and trust the Minister of Finance Christos Stakoura, who, I repeat, I regard him as the most successful Minister of Finance of the last decade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much Mr. Kontogeorgios. Mr. Stoltides has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. It is obviously of interest to you, New Democracy and SYRIZA, to play ball on your own court, that is, what everything is set up. You want our people to get locked up in the thought that what lives has come from over and you ready, always, fighters, and among you, for who will save him better. We'll put you, unfortunately, on the field of reality as well - for you too. We will not, of course, do you a favor of hiding from it, because what has brought in countless thousands of workers and self-employed people to be in front of deadlock, in front of this bill, now for granted, the loss of their residence, assets and income, is not their bad luck, but you and the interests you serve. And let's see, isn't that a reason to close large-scale neurally necessary operations? For example, in my area, why is the list of "ELVO", "HALYBOURG", "ZAHARI", now PPC, with the help of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy, large business groups want to put them in the hand? Did he not send this closure to thousands of people in unemployment, but to businesses themselves, as well as to so many others who operated alongside them? Isn't that a reason to privatize the wages, too, of thousands for the same profits? Isn't it the abolition of both of the collective labour agreements that opened for employers on the road to compress everyone's wages to the lowest? Isn't it all the flexible forms of work that were widened after each other, enabling employers to work for two? Isn't it the continued increase of both of your taxes adjusted to remove what he's been able to keep from income? Aren't the 200 billion stolen from the pensioners who led - both of you - to twenty-five cuts in their pensions, which supported whole family budgets? Isn't it the crash of both of you hospitals, which leads thousands of thousands of people to sell what they have and don't have, to find doctors in private health cords, even on matters that science has made them routine? Isn't that the reason? Who did all this? Didn't you do it? Aren't you, too, that after each other you emptied the state funds by giving billions to the business groups? Because the business groups - you remember now, do not divide - the banks you two exempted them and gave them greater power to remove more easily thousands of small and medium-sized self-employed professionals from each industry, whom you have not exempted from any burden even in times of quarantine. Didn't you do all this? Are these not all those who have become helpless? Didn't you do it? You did it. So you're the problem and not the solution. And the solution is to get the problem out of the way, you, that is, you, and the parasites in your pockets, of which you have led the wealth you produce. And the rest of the parties, the smaller parties, the winners of the governments, what happened? That's why you forgot about it? Not even a word about all of this. You only speak inexpensively, how many doses, how many years, who will pay HIS and other blurred words, no one will get a hamburger. The workers, the unemployed, the pensioners, the self-employed must be alarmed. The bill is not the solution, it's the end. It is the beginning, in order to open the way, the opportunity to pass the whole of the work-popular housing in the hands of bankers. He's an unscrupulous wealth and an opportunity to put him in his hand. The conditions for everyone to fall into their nets are here, continue and strengthen. Other major workplaces will close or pass in private hands, increasing unemployment, breaking wages and employment relations, then what is left of PPC, water, LARCO, is now a matter for civil aviation. The legislative act by strengthening flexibility, through rotating work - teleworking - of the unpaid overtime coming - the bill I mean - will now make a worker work, not for two, but for three and four. Enforcement of unemployed people to work in businesses to get 200 euros state subsidies will replace many of the full and stable jobs. By privatising subsidiary insurance and further collapse of health, it will multiply those who are unable to pay banks and a state. The problem is one and it's cleaner than ever. The problem is that decisions about what is going to happen with the wealth produced are taken by those who produce nothing. The capitalists and their political staff, i.e. you, their parties. And it will be solved when the decisions are made by themselves, because these workers, technicians, scientists, by launching the productivity of the means of production, the glossy progress of technology and science made by themselves alone, built all the tools for explosive production in all industries, with work for all, with fewer hours and human working conditions, with the ability to meet all modern needs. So, as long as yours and your bosses, bankers, shipowners, industrialists, big businessmen, will produce poverty, unemployment, impoverishment, death from coronary and even wars. So, so that we don't even blame you for producing nothing! You've got it clean. Our people will not be tolerated to live in such medieval misery. He'll react. You are, of course, taking your measures, with suppression precisely at the target, where your bosses hurt, class organization and all its forms, union antiquities, collective procedures, strike decisions, demonstrations. They demand that you hit deeper in the root. Of course, you are preparing, but without consulting history. Suppression is intensified because it has become short for employers the class trade union movement. You gave the employer all the weapons, so that it can be undone by labour rights: act of legislation, masks of silence, quarantine. And even under these circumstances, the class pole organizes, claims, forces works to stop the attack, prepares the mass response of the working class, gathers forces to become every district of resistance castle, so that it can't step on a bank "root" to grab a popular house. The business groups have spread all their hands to steal the hardship, the income of workers and people's layers through their own pockets. And no one will be excluded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] We must, however, say that the most barbaric of all these hands, the Nazis, our people have broken it at the moment. He proved, however, that he can also rip it out, but the rest, as I have said before, of stealing the life of himself and his children. That's when the word "life" will get its real content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. We will now give the floor to the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, given that the direction of our country's economy and every country is clearly and is not only the responsibility of one minister, but it is the epitome and the product of a collective effort, I wonder, and I wonder how the Prime Minister has not yet decided to raise the glove and to turn to a vote of confidence in his government the proposal of distrust against Mr Staikora. Because a lot has been heard, I would like to make some clarifications in a few minutes. The last three motions of distrust against a minister put before Parliament are as follows: in 2005, PASOK turned against Mr Horsescouf. What did the Prime Minister do then? He did this: I read from the Minutes of Parliament on 8 June: 'Mrs. President...' - Mrs. Benaki was then - 'I heard the proposal. But I feel the need to say this: the economy and the budget are not a matter for a person. It's more general, more collective government policy. Therefore, in accordance with the Rule of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, I call for this debate to be converted into a debate on a vote of confidence in the government." He was your Prime Minister. Let's go shortly after, in 2014, where SYRIZA presents a motion of censure against Mr Stournara. He was then Minister of Finance. It was not discussed, because it was not legally tabled, because it had not been six months since the previous one. SYRIZA made a motion of censure against the President of Parliament, Mr Meimarakis, but Mr Samaras, Prime Minister at the time, intended to turn it into a vote of confidence in his government. Let us go a little further, to finish this issue once and for all and not to come back for a reason. We had a motion of censure against SYRIZA Deputy Minister. He takes the floor on 6 May 2019, last year, Deputy Prime Minister Drasakis and says: 'We believe...' - they thought - 'that the vast majority of society is interested in all these issues, and that is why I believe that the debate should be generalised. And that is the meaning of the statement by Prime Minister Tsipras, that we want and we ask for a vote of confidence in the government to be held." The Prime Minister, therefore, Mr Karamanlis, as I read, felt the need to do so. I wonder, did the current Prime Minister not feel this need to cover his minister? She didn't feel it. 'Via Dolorosa', ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Finance! A very dangerous life for a Minister of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be voting in favour of the motion of censure, but not for the reasons why it was submitted by SYRIZA. You must have done something opposite if you were to rule - if you didn't, well - to say "Let the man who did what you did." Let me say it again. If you haven't done anything opposite, you can't ask for someone who's doing things that you've done too. I remember Mr. Kontonis's 2016 bankruptcy code, which the current government is changing today, but has also undergone changes in the meantime. I remember auctions. I remember, in other words, on two central issues of the draft law we were discussing and on which, Mrs Gerovas, you tabled the motion of censure, as Mr Kegeroglu said yesterday, you did not have in mind a few hours before asking for a roll call for a roll-call vote on this draft law at first reading for articles only. My colleague filed it yesterday at the National Representation when he was speaking. Your point wasn't there. Your point was different, yours and I don't care. But I am interested, ladies and gentlemen, because I have served as Minister of State for four governments and I care when I speak to the House, to remember what I have done. You cannot present yourself as a knight of salvation, when you have done the same, for which you are currently accusing your opponent. Before commenting on two economic policy issues, I would like to make a reference to the 2009 events, because the Minister of Finance in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs caused this by the statement that PASOK put the country in the memorandum. I referred to the debate on the draft law on the Banking Code and the other issues, but I want to make a more specific reference today. The country entered the memorials, having structural problems in its economy and society, but the cause, for example, was economic policy 2004-2009. I am the one who was in favour of the public, despite the fact that we should not be chasing witches, not becoming an Inquiry Committee against Mr Karamanlis and the Minister of Finance at that time. But I can't remember what happened. I remember and remember well, ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy. Unprecedented deficit deprivation and debt deprivation! Who recorded these? The Independent National Statistical Authority. Who was in charge? Mr. Andreas Georgiou. What happened to him because he told him the truth, observed by the Papandreou government, the Papademos government, the Samara - Venizelos government, the Tsipras government in the first half of the four years and today the present Mitsotakis government? What did the man say? What was recorded by the National Statistical Authority for deficit and debt and was confirmed by the direct control of the troika, the institutions, the "Control", as they called it in 1898, after the bankruptcy of the country. It's kind of like the ones that's watching us. What happened to George next? The first person to prosecute Ms.Dimitrios, who is honored as Ephedis, Prosecutor and Prosecutor of the Ice Award. Three appeals to unanimous exoneration decisions of boards. That's what happened to the man. So, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I wonder how your Minister of Finance found in the committee discussing four bills in one, two hundred and seventy articles, the opportunity to look back at 2009. And I said yesterday, in my tritology, that I remember very well what the Ministry of Education did - first ministry - the Ministry of the Interior - the waste that took place last month in the election period to influence the result that was not affected, we crushed you at that time. Now, to refer to the last draft law, but also to the general economic policy, with two examples, because I have so much time. We will of course make a more extensive reference, because once we have completed the debate on reproach, we will continue to discuss the draft law of Mr Staikora. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are MPs but not ministers yet, I know how difficult it is to be a MP in the Couple. I know that well. I have heard many of you and many, praised by the draft law for various virtues, in your opinion, to include the second opportunity. And in 2016, speaking to Mr Kontonis, and today, against Mr Stakoura, I stress that a second opportunity is not provided. Don't mess things up. I am giving a second chance - if I give it to a company, before it goes bankrupt, so that it does not go bankrupt, and what will the poor, that is, the bankrupt one. In Greece the poor man is dead financially, he's dead. He can only be hired as an employee. If he had a skill, regardless of or relevant to his bankrupt company, he can't use it, he can't get a service report. Nowadays, that's the way it is. He's dead. Article 91, says, changes these and gives rise to misunderstandings. It is precisely the current article 15 of the current Banking Code with the addition of a strawberry, 'unless otherwise foreseen'. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing will change. The article is a mockery. Second chance, ladies and gentlemen, not provided. The financial dead is dead. The poor are dead. He can only go somewhere to be an employee. To have a service report can't even be done with your own draft law. So, you're overdoing what you're saying, don't lie. I'm hanging up. Ten liquidity tools, the Minister of Finance told us, the government has put it into effect, and in that sense the government has done its duty, he says. We asked three Members the same time-consuming question, but with many different aspects, Kegeroglou, Katrinis and I, Mr Georgiadis, about market liquidity and business relief measures. Economic policy is more general policy. As I praised Mr Stakoura, who, in his speeches, included the private sector and not just the national accounts, so I have a right and a blame for the government, because he has not done the right thing. What benefits are from TPTIX II tools, Guarantee Fund and repayable advance payment of EUR 7 billion? What does the National Bank of Greece say in a study that it is to reduce the turnover of businesses? 50 billion euros. Do we respond? The Greek state responds? The second element and last one. How many small businesses in Greece, the very small ones? Many, 97% of all Greek businesses. The Greek economy is not supported, it has no log, it has 97% of micro-enterprises according to their ranking in the EU. How many have been borrowed? Let the number I'll use be accurate. Mr President, I'm done. Words are superfluous from one point to the next. Twelve thousand seven hundred seven in total, eight hundred seven thousand sixty-six undertakings. Is that any help in the market? Can with a state wage, a political wage, as you give a worker who needs something - inadequate, but do you give him something - to keep him alive? Business won't stay that way in life. So when all the state mechanism in words is good and makes policies that we need, but the act is completely opposite, that means that the government is not doing well. That is why we are voting in favour of the motion of censure. We do not identify with the salvation knights who did the same, twenty - seven thousand auctions. Oh, no. We're not demagoging. But since we really control the government's economic and social policy, we cannot say no to a motion of censure against its own whole or minister. We are voting in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u226	We will now give Mrs Bryzidou Friday from New Democracy and, as we announced, Mr Apostolos, Mrs Sakorafa and then the Minister for the Interior Mr Theodorikos will follow. Mrs. Brysidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, every bill to be passed on to the House, but above all the Treasury's bill, must be a bill specifically studied, giving solutions to the deadlocks, the economic deadlocks of the citizens, helping citizens and helping the country. Also, everything that needs to be studied in the context of a wider economic climate, because it is the only ministry that cannot independently look at any issue, if it does not see it as a whole, how it can stand in the course of the country's economy. Of course, the opposition's position is also very important in a bill from the Ministry of Finance, and even when it becomes a motion of censure there is even greater responsibility. There is a huge responsibility towards such a position, because strong arguments must be followed, so that the citizens, particularly those who are interested, are the afflicted citizens...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u228	You're not listening, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Good evening from the afternoon shift. Mrs Bryzidou from New Democracy and beautiful Ptolemaida.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every bill from any Ministry must be thoroughly studied and taken into account in all aspects. Most importantly, however, the Finance Ministry's bill has to solve problems, provide a way out of the deadlock and take account of the country's economy as a whole. The bill submitted by the Ministry fulfils all these conditions and is particularly important. But the position of the opposition is also important and its decisions, especially when it comes to a motion of censure, a motion of censure on the Minister and on the respective bill, because a motion of censure must be accompanied by strong arguments. Citizens afflicted such as debtd households and businesses will watch the three day hoping to find a way out or suggestions to their problems. If they find that this move has nothing to add to it for other reasons and political purposes, then they will be disappointed and the results will be even worse than what hopes for a motion of censure. The bill deals with several individual issues and one of them is the issue of overdue households and first homes. What's going on to this day? What happened from the previous government that's been in place so far? During her term of office, we had twenty - six thousand auctions. This is a negative given that a solution has to be found and an intervention has to be made. There's a proposal here. We say in this bill that when the citizen is in a vulnerable group and cannot respond, his dose will be subsidized for five years by the state in order to keep his home. Isn't that a solution to a big dead end? What other problem have we had so far? We'd seen two million seizeds in bills. Because the citizens who owed their home owed both loans and insurance contributions. There was an unbearable burden, they couldn't function, and every charge was going through their accounts. And this comes to be restrained by this draft law, as well as the tragic phenomenon of the legacy deportation, forced by families and children to do so because perhaps their father had recently become ill, whether he had lost his life, could not meet his obligations, there was an unbearable debt and could in no way be treated and renounced not only the first residence but also the last port of their property. That was tragic. Here comes a solution to this bill. In what way? It allows for two hundred forty instalments to settle all the debts and in twenty years to be repaid. Is that a small offer and a solution and a way out? It's a huge way out. Because if we look at people who have problems, if we walk next to them and discuss what they are asking for is the possibility of financing with loans. Isn't that a 20-year-old loan that enables him to solve his problems, pay his debts and be able to function? There are other cases of citizens who cannot make this move either. These citizens are given the opportunity for twelve years when a private body takes their home, to stay in their homes with a rent which is subsidised by the state and in twelve years when it is able to settle its finances, buy their home back and be his own. But he doesn't rent his house. What's he renting? What he would lose anyway from the auction that would take place in the next few days. So this is important help. So what brings the bill? The bill comes and brings solutions to important issues, facilitates citizens. And additionally, it makes it easier for whom? Entrepreneurs who currently do not have VDUs, do not have insurance information, do not have VDUs because of their debts and are indebted to them. It enables him through a process to completely dismiss his debts and on a zero basis to start his course. Of course, if he has a fortune, he enables a part of his property to be set off against debts and the rest of his debts to keep it, starting again with his APM again a new activity and his financial benefits to pay part of his debts. All these facilities do not refer to people who have solved their problems, are in a quiet day-to-day life and suddenly comes to make it difficult for them. It comes to people who can't work, who are on the sidelines, who will lose anyway from auctioning from previous laws, their home, the people who are deadlocked. I therefore believe that the motion of censure should be voted against, because it really does not aim, it is not intended, it does not work, it does not work anywhere. A mobility is being created, but it does not help anyone. In addition, the Treasury bill should be supported, because it has shown all this time that it is close to the citizen, finding solutions, leaving them to the margin without touching them. Puts them on the table and finds solutions. All are to the benefit of the citizens - a little more - such as the reduction of HISPIA, the reduction of VAT, the increase in duty-free. He has given too many solutions, he has helped the coronary period. He has helped the operations that have been affected by the coronary. In the exceptional circumstances and disasters it has been found next to the citizens and we must encourage them to continue at these rates with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which makes us proud of the policy that follows and the organization of defence, giving a response to Turkey that has been intercepted and will now stop playing on the Greek people's back its expansion toys. I do not think reproach really matters. Already in the debate, the citizens concerned have been disappointed. Nevertheless, I think that there can always be arguments through dialogue, there can be thoughts, there can be proposals to help the afflicted citizens and in this respect I think that every debate and every statement of arguments is positive for the development and development of our country. Be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. We're going to Evia, to Evangelos Apostleu from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. I will stand by my intervention in the suffering that brings the Greek people the bill that caused our motion of censure against the Minister of Finance. You have frightened households with the auctioning of their main homes. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, that there was no auction for the first place on SYRIZA. You are wrong to invoke elements which have nothing to do with them, especially now that the Greek people and the first residence are threatened with the bill you bring. There is no provision for any protection provided that the debtor retains the ownership of the property. The deduction of the total assets of the debtor combined with the retention or freezing of part of its annual income will mean the fee for thousands of debtors. In particular, it will mean abolishing the protection of first residence. The conversion of part of the annual income into bankruptcy in practice means that the unpaid wage and pension is deducted. Do you not realize that the presumption of set-aside can pave the way for massive bankruptcies and thus deprive the market of their presence, which means that jobs will be lost and the national economy will be affected in general? It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that banks are not at all cooperative at the level of consensus in order to find a solution when there is a difference with the borrower. How do you treat their particular behavior? You shield her with the bill with additional tools to continue this intransigent policy. A policy that will lead to an uncontrolled spread of bankruptcy. It will close the very small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently crushed by the crisis. The buckle of overcompensation in the neck of the economically weakest and vulnerable households will squeeze even further. The debtor until such time as he is judged to be exempted from his debts does not appear to be able to fruit the income obtained after his bankruptcy rather than reasonable living costs. The improvement you have made at the last minute with increased living costs does not change the result. In other words, even if he succeeds in failing to achieve a satisfactory income, he is convicted to live with the minimum required until further notice. It is clear that this regulation is particularly problematic. Exemption from the debtor shall exclude any debt caused by fraudulent or gross negligence and relating to criminal or administrative offences and infringements. So I ask you, on the basis of this regulation: What businessman is not charged with and with debts which are also a criminal offence or an administrative offence, such as the issue of uncovered cheques or non-payment of taxes and contributions, particularly in a pandemic period, a period of crisis that we are experiencing? How will he be protected against creditors who, in good or bad faith, give him gross negligence or deceit for those debts? These are, therefore, exceptions which, if anything, will extend the time-limit for its discharge. Do you really think that this is how you will treat holistic, unified and consistent the overcompensation of natural and legal persons? It is precisely the opposite that you will succeed. The new Acquisitioner is neither a debt settlement nor a second chance. It may be a second chance for creditors because for debtors there does not seem to be a serious second chance. There are other questions, Mr Minister, that you need to answer. What will you do with the country's productive units that are committed to endless regulation or bankruptcy procedures? In rural areas there are private and cooperative units capable of responding to their operating costs, but not to the service of other debts, units which are related - take care of this - and to the provision of our nutritional needs. Is it possible for the pandemic that we are experiencing to proceed with their closure? Do you not realize that they must not only continue their operation, but also reoperate those that are closed? You, on the contrary, give a solution once again to the bank's unhelpful loans and PQHs or to their sale to foreign funds. In conclusion, therefore, the new bankruptcy code is a legislation that is far away from a radical legislative initiative that would drastically change the bankruptcy situation in Greece. On the contrary, it captures the hardest and most socially-needed policy of your government. Your first home policy, bankruptcies and auctions clearly shows who it wants to serve. There is no sensitivity for the people who have lost their job, for the small businessman who is struggling to save his business, and even during a pandemic crisis, for the employee who sees after the downgrading of his rank in the table of creditors that he no longer deserves his legal compensation from the bankrupt undertaking. Mr President-in-Office, there is a lot of analgesia in your bill, and that is what forced us to table this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr Apostleu. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sacorafa, Member of the Second South Sector of Mera25, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. The reason for today's motion of censure was the bill of bankruptcy for the Greeks. Obviously, this is not an individual case of Mr Stavura. The bill is another attack of the Mitsotakis Government on the body of Greek society. Another antisocial bill of a provocatively classic character attacking micro-ownership and the debtors without any discrimination. Who do you choose to attack today? Those who have for so many years suffered the consequences of your policies, those to whom you have enforced the bankruptcy of the country and after this extermination policy of the memoranda. We admire once again the communal reversal of reality. You speak of a so-called second chance while the bill should have the title "Have the debtors". You want to finish those who have been seriously injured by the executive extracts of your own policies and policies and previous ones and to expropriate whatever property they have left in favor of the bank’s morbid system. If there's a chance this is for the banks. I won't extend to the bill any more. Our party expressed a clear and thorough position on it. After all, we have tabled a comprehensive proposal, the plan 'PESHEA', for the protection of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, many bills by the Mitsotakis Government were equally appropriate for proposals of distrust. I do not need to mention examples. Fortunately the laws are also published and the House is respected in practice. Apart from legislation, however, it would be reasonable to propose mistrust and for government policy to be implemented with too many inconveniences. It would suffice only one picture of public transport in the middle of a pandemic. Only the table of empty organic positions in the health system or the adequacy of its infrastructure would suffice. It would only be enough to quote the data on criminal tourism management in the summer. Each aspect of the government's criminal anti-environment policy would also be enough. Even more today, the government is amending critical criminal provisions in practice. The arrest and imprisonment of the Nazis condemned for their crimes is now possible only with the individual consent of the convicted. Those in Greece, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Chrysochoidis will only voluntarily carry out their sentences and only those who came from themselves are imprisoned. Ladies and gentlemen, we at Mera25 are not simply sceptical towards the Mitsotakis Government, we are against its policy. We have tried at every personal cost to safeguard our right to express our opposition and to support it in the movement and in specific political proposals. It is only the continuity and consistency of public speech and action in the political presence of each of us. You, SYRIZA colleagues, who are calling today on us to vote on the motion of censure, what have you safeguarded from all this? You, who today break into your garments, left nothing behind you, no shield, no impediments to address the current government's attack. Besides, they don't bring any radical overthrows their laws, they just continue on an open and twisted road. Today's crucial issue is a typical example. Mr Stavros does not overturn any of your legislation on red loans and the protection of first residence, he simply continues what you had actually prepared. The sale of red-growth and the plan 'HARAKLIS' brings the signature of Mr. Tsakalotos. At that time we did not see any motion of censure. The introduction of the peculiarity for the offence of the disruption of the auctions is signed by Mr. Kontonis. We did not then see any motion of censure. When your government realized that it is not going through the conflicts in the pacifist courts every Wednesday, which did not allow the auctions to be pushed forward during bank appetites, Mr. Tsakalotos brought the electronic auctions. We still did not see a motion of censure from you. Do you remember the sinful triangle? Banks, media and government. When we had the signature of Mr. Drasakis, due to earlier government experience as a minister - to remind you - of Mr. Tzantakis, the depreciation of public shares in banks and their sale to foreign funds has been intensified. I still don't remember any motion of censure. Like also, I don't even remember a banker, who wasn't prosecuted or sued, but even stopped, at least, as incompetent. Everyone was rewarded and reused. Today's landscape in the media, which you again complain, brings the signature of Mr. Nikos Papapas wide. The sinful triangle completely infallible continues with any government. Ladies and gentlemen, things are simple. With the sole responsibility of leadership, the only thing the SYRIZA government really opposed was the spontaneous historical movement that highlighted it. I won't say anything about the referendum. It's unnecessary. So don’t try to fool the world with the argument that you’re supposedly not allowed by the outsiders to do what you want. You could've done it, but it turns out you don't want to. I would like to remind you of the fact that, together with Mr Tsipras, we were putting SYRIZA's programme in Athena. I myself stated, among other things, that the MATs will be abolished. Which institutions have pushed you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, not to abolish MATs? Which strangers pushed you not to bring discreetly during their service so that there would be identity and responsibility in their operation? So, obviously, you do not have the right today to talk about the determination in the operation of the police. Indeed, while all this is happening to the police of Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Mitsotakis, why so far have we not heard a single public statement from Mr. Toska, from Mrs. Gerovalis, about their experience in this ministry? For MATs, for ‘Aura’, for chemicals purchased by friend B. Netanyahu? Finally, I should like to say one more thing: I am always against these policies and because the policies are implemented by people, I am also against people. Indeed, the government's responsibility is collective, and Mr Stakoras certainly does not implement his own policy. As I said, we have chosen for ourselves the right to be opposed. How will you vote in favour of this motion of censure? At the same time, you will also be voting against your own government policy. I do not believe that you can conquer this maturity, colleagues and colleagues of the SYRIZA. You're too late. You have had many reasons to put forward a motion of censure, I told you before. You have had many reasons with the Mitsotakis Government, as well as many reasons for your own government. You have just done so now and in advance. You're too late. You're late, because the watch of your political consciousness is stuck and went back, at least, a conscience back. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. You were accurate in your time. When you're a Vice President, you know what happens. Seventh cycle's closed. As has been announced, from the eighth and then time is reduced by one minute, that is to say, six minutes. But now I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, for about ten minutes. Then will Mrs Adamopoulou, the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, and then you are you, Mr Ghika. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time of great challenges and danger. The pandemic of the coronary with heavy health, social and economic consequences throughout mankind and the ever worsening crisis in Greek-Turkish relations determine the environment in which we move. Within this landscape, the Qualified Opposition has chosen to proceed to a motion of censure with the Minister of Finance. I understand that SYRIZA needs to improve its party aggregation. But I don't think that's done with old-fashioned tactics. Those who define themselves as left-wing citizens - and possibly voted to you - do not listen to you after the policy you have taken, the untrustworthy policy in your four-year governance. Those citizens who are, of course, the overwhelming majority, who define themselves as mediterranean and logic people do not listen to you because you do not have documented proposals and alternatives in the current things of the country or the respective trustworthy representatives. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, a large section of citizens who voted for the Civic Opposition, SYRIZA in the recent elections is attracted by the effective and responsible policies of Mr Mitsotakis in important social areas. That's what bothers you, and that's what you're trying to stop through such tactical moves. I would like to make it clear that for us, a political superiority based on the condemnation of the previous government is not enough. Our aim is to pursue credible and effective policies that unite society and go forward with the country. The bar is high for the Government of New Democracy. In the difficult times when we are living the need for reforms is an absolute priority. And that is our strategy at the Ministry of Interior, whose responsibility 15 months ago the Prime Minister assigned me. We have already done six major and critical reforms and proceed to the next four in the next few months, speeding up our work. They are important reforms that change the landscape of public administration and self-government in the country, reforms that affect society as a whole and have a great impact on the lives of citizens and on the prospects of society as a whole, reforms that are always carried out consistently and continuously to bring together the maximum possible convergences and consensuss. The first was the vote of the Greeks abroad, which was adopted almost unanimously by the Greek Parliament, a reform that takes place next month, in November with the operation of the electronic platform prepared and the corresponding communication campaign, always in collaboration with all the political forces of the country and, of course, the Greek community throughout the world. The second important reform, as in fact has been shown, is that of undeclared squares, a reform that embraced all the citizens of the country. Nearly three million households found a way out of it, putting order into their home. Citizens saved 1.5m euros of fines and fees, while government and state earned an annual amount of EUR 150m of additional revenues per year. But, above all, this arrangement has made a decisive contribution to strengthening and building relations of confidence between the state and the citizens. This confidence was strengthened by the innovative management of the public sector during the quarantine period and the most important timely decisions of the Prime Minister at the time, which saved human lives in the country. For us there is nothing more important, maximum priority and value for the implementation in our political life. The third important reform, which we have achieved, is the substantial and firm support for self-government through ensuring the governance of municipalities and regions, facing the very negative consequences of a universal and ideological implementation of simple proportionally. At the same time, we strengthened, not in words, the social nature of the self-government and in particular its social infrastructure and social policy by supporting flagship institutions, more typical of the "Help to Home". In the next few months, the recruitment of workers, permanent staff, to an institution that supports about eighty thousand lonely and weak people throughout the country, mainly belonging to the third age, is completed, a structure that provides solidarity and in practice strengthens social cohesion, a structure that we support with passion. The fourth reform is the naturalisation of Greek foreigners with an objective, transparent, fair system of written examinations of the universal type, a system that will give Greek citizenship a much faster time, in a fair manner, away from opacity and transactions. It will enter into force in the first half of 2021. We are also putting an end to the party-to-democracy in public by institutionalising the position of the secretary-in-Office and giving him essential administrative and political powers. The fifth, special, is the development programme of the self-government "Antonis Tritsis" with guaranteed resources of 2,5 billion euros and a priority for the support of the small, mountainous, island, border towns of the country, as well as both the two lecanoplasts and every corner of the Greek land. I refer separately to the two basins, because they had been excluded in the previous period. The program is evolving... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Nine minutes you told me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u237	Don't worry. I'll fix it, Minister. It's my fault, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u238	The Programme shall develop with the contribution of the EBRD and the participation of the CSR and the Committee of the Regions. Finally, the sixth basic reform is the participation of the Ministry of Interior in the digital reform that takes place during the quarantine period, as with the Civil Registry, which is the largest national database, we make a decisive contribution to its implementation. All of this forms part of a comprehensive strategy for a public service of citizens and healthy entrepreneurship and a local authority of development, social cohesion and solidarity. We are speeding up our reform work by upgrading, modernising and digitising the ADP, which is the next reform and the respective recruitment system. A basic objective of dignity. We need to give our young people real real hopes to take the lead in tomorrow's Greece. That is why we are uniting forces and compiling opinions. We are having a very substantial dialogue with all the political forces. Besides, reforms of this kind, to be successful, must have duration and withstand time and have the support as much of the country's political system as possible. It follows that the reform of multi-level governance with the clearing of first and second degree competences between them and with the central state. The third is the new institution of teleworking, for which we have acquired a very important, positive and creative experience during the quarantine period, and we must now institutionalise, in order to provide this possibility of improving and combining family and professional life and performance as a whole of the effectiveness of the public sector. And finally, it is the new code of self-government that will simplify all data together with the electoral system of government, in order to upgrade and modernise even more this autonomous institution at both degrees. So the work that we have before us is important for both the citizens and the country itself. We must all respond to the major challenges and the very great social needs. It is a given that the situation we are experiencing requires more realism, but also more national dialogue, unity and national strategy. It is of course a given fact that the parties in our democracy have differences and ideological differences. However, there are issues that we must put aside party tactics and put national interest in the way of a responsible patriotism. I believe that we all realise that the challenges ahead are very great and I do not doubt that, from whatever position the people have brought us into this Chamber, we all have the same objective, to support the interests of our common home and people that we have sworn to serve seriously and optimisticly. But in order to achieve this goal, a national unit is needed that is both a people's demand and an effective implementation of reforms. These very goals are served by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Minister. The parliamentary representative of Mera25, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I begin my position, I owe an answer to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanese who yesterday continued his rhetoric and the Baroufakis cost account and the economic disaster brought about by Mr Varoufakis. I called him to testify in the Minutes. He didn't file evidence. Nevertheless, he continues the same rhetoric, even mentioning at some point at the edge of the speech that SYRIZA, in relation to the objections of anti-constitutionalism we have put forward, was dragged from Mr Varoufakis' skirt and then the President of the Parliament, Mr Tasoulos, supported him in saying that he was, in fact, dragged from Mr Varoufakis' skirt. This is a comment, which we consider to be a mockery of parliamentary dialogue. We call on Mr. Tashula to explain exactly what he meant. I will not make interpretations of this being a sexist or homophobic comment. I would simply ask him to clarify, to withdraw in any case publicly and to apologise. We will not talk about skirts or skirts, we will talk about boots, troika boots, Mrs Merkel's boot, the boot of institutions, which is the seal of your policies, because you are the trustees of their own cheques. So I continue with the motion of censure. The bucket of a mini-parliamentary crisis is unfolding in front of us with the motion of censure. Merra25 will not be based on this logic, because when the spirits and the two major parties calm down, the only loser will be the Greek people, the Greek citizens. And New Democracy and SYRIZA ruled with commemorative policies of wild taxation, with cutbacks in social benefits, with the dissolution of the welfare state and all this, to recapitalise and retreat the banks, whose administration they did not even claim to participate decisively in the state. The public became a major shareholder, but without a voice, he gave with the sweat of his own taxpayer Greek citizen, and he took nothing in return, and now the government of Mr. Mitsotakis comes simply to give the gift shot. The New Democracy brought to Parliament a piece of legislation - an abortion with obvious anti-constitutional provisions, which the majority of the opposition accepted, and misleading references to supposedly second chances, when it is obvious that it has decided not to be written with winter debtors, but with banks and predators. It has therefore built up a grid of provisions that give them full priority, and even to a degree of immunity. In this grim time, when it is announced that about one million Greeks will be condemned to the unemployment scheme and that according to representatives of trade unions of small and medium-sized enterprises there will be thousands of knives in it, so that the juncture where the Greek citizen is in fact and very reasonablely unable to be consistent with his obligations, the government will hand over unconditionally to the debtors and their property to the markets of creditors, who will in fact impose their data in the form of a ultimatum in the form of an arbitrary assessment of the data, with the mandate of a trade union, which will not be a choice of justice, but will be a quasi-corporation of their debts, by a fast track, without negotiations, without insurance security checks and with the public and justice, simply to compromise and, of course, obligated to be caught up in customs, and that this is why they are considered the only one of them to be misbehave, and are often the one of the worst-st-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s The banks, therefore, and the funds, will go bankrupt not only by traders but also by individuals themselves, people who have nothing to do with business risks and who are struggling as bio-opportunists to deal with thousands of obligations. So the liquidation of all debtors' assets and the confiscation of any income you are going to charge for income of more than EUR 611. Disappears the protection of the main residence and its location, taking a burdensome 12-year lease with, in fact, zero chances of recovering the property. This contrasts clearly with the principle of proportionality. And it was heard by a New Democracy MP that the debtor could regain his property. How can he regain it at such a time of deep recession, where you condemn the citizen to poverty? Your purpose is, therefore, to ensure that banks are given derivatives that will securitise the cash out of the rents and, in any case, that way, you will move them into the financial markets. You even come with criminal persecution to threaten debtors for indefinitely identified injurious or risky transactions, which they will not even be able to assess, and all this, for six months before bankruptcy. So you criminalize both poverty and tolerance. Fortunately - and this honours you - you have withdrawn the truly infamous provision, which provided for you to allow frozen assets from criminal activities and from money laundering to write off debts. That was, in fact, a frustration of the rule of law and we are pleased that you have withdrawn this provision. So, against the international dominance of preventing mass bankruptcy on the logic of resolution and restructuring, what Mr Varoufakis was fighting for in 2015 - Mr Varoufakis - who, according to Mr Lebanese and New Democracy, destroyed Greece - the government promoted the liquidation and confiscation of property, the fast track bankruptcy, the degradation of society and the imminent marginalisation of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. So your eyes and attention are focused exclusively on the interests of banks and predators. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis chose to bring a bill, which, in fact, all his party members had advertised it as such an important bill, without even coming to defend it in Parliament. We therefore conclude that he would be in a difficult position, preferring to leave his ministers exposed and to remain in the unavoidable situation. On the other hand, of course, SYRIZA, in tabling this motion of censure, is trying to bring the Prime Minister to the fore but also to destroy him politically, forgetting that social crime with electronic auctions was under way in the governance of SYRIZA. I will not repeat what colleagues have said, like the MP of Mera25, Mrs Bakadima, said, that on governance SYRIZA, according to data and data provided by the notary clubs themselves, the auctions, by a very large percentage, increased between 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u241	Not first home, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u242	I didn't talk about abolishing first home protection. I talked about electronic auctions. I was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u243	Yeah, but that's what matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u244	It was for...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u245	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u246	I didn't talk about the abolition of first residence. You can see, in the Minutes, that I did not speak about the abolition of first home protection. But I talked about electronic auctions - and that was a reality - where the world was being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u247	But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u248	Just don't put words on me that I didn't say. So SYRIZA is coming today with a communal trick to help, in essence, the Prime Minister turn the debate - make a strife - away from this bankruptcy law, which is the first law in the fifth memorandum. I repeat, therefore, that Mera25 will not be involved in this disorientation, in these communication methods of political specula, because we focus on the really important exercise of creative opposition. I am referring to the proposal for a law which is currently in consultation. It is a proposal for a law to protect citizens from the growing economic crisis. In summary, what do we promote? It is a targeted and realistic proposal, which first of all promotes the haircut, permanent tax relief and the abolition of pre-payments for small and medium-sized enterprises. It also promotes the reduction of tax rates, the close monitoring of tax evasion in real time through a software, the permanent protection of the main residence and of small and medium-sized incomes from the robbery of creditors. It also promotes the establishment of a national private debt management company, which transfers red loans, public control over bank boards and the abolition of the surplus fund. It also promotes the cessation of the divestment of public property and the exploitation of it away from reasonable sales, a direct settlement system for public and private dues and savings of 12 billion euros, otherwise the Greek State will have to lend them to the predators. We are talking about a 7% of GDP, which, instead of adding it to the huge and unsustainable public debt, we prefer to channel it to social expenditure, education, health and social welfare. Instead of playing a political game against each other, we therefore call, in the context of this denouncing on the one hand, but also creative, at the same time, counter-population, directly and responsibly for those who feel the criticalness of the situation, in a broad, open, honest and public consultation on the country's salvation from the upcoming disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u249	We too are very grateful, Mrs Adamopoulou, for the time being. The former President of Parliament, Mr Nikos Voutsis, is called in Stepma. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the leadership of the New Democracy shows that it does not understand why the request for distrust was made to the person of the Minister of Finance. Is that possible? It was submitted by the Chief of Staff Response, head of the entire SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, with the request that the bill be withdrawn immediately, before the vote, in order to avoid exactly what the Minister of Finance has taken the responsibility to sign and bring to the House, a very big stumbling block. We are faced with a turning point on the social issue, which has emerged since the pandemic and, as pandemic goes on, a major social issue to which we have all referred. It is, through the vote and the vote and the non-retirement of this bill, a great turning point in the political and social life of the place, precisely because it is the epitome of the extreme neoliberal policy and of partitioning even of the middle class. I want to be very clear. This bill is institutional bankruptcy and social depreciation on economic poverty, which has been in the phase of the crisis and within the pandemic. It's something extra. This is an irreversible political initiative to impose an institutional bankruptcy. It has been heard in many respects that, for the first time in small businesses, the protection of first residence is explicitly withdrawn and the bankruptcy of the natural persons is being attempted - Mr. Loverdes said before - that he is dead whoever as a natural person is bankrupt - and mass poverty. To be explained. It is a determined, violent restructuring and a new redistribution for bank capital. That's what this is about. Alas, if the Civic Anti-Civilization deported or remained in silence and oblivion, which the government wants to impose through controlled media. Ladies and gentlemen, the public ERT which started the debate yesterday dealt with the evening memo for one minute with the debate that is taking place in the House after thirty-eight minutes of the report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u251	It was the last news before midnight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u252	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u253	You're welcome. It is clear that there was an order for this bill to go through in secret and unwittingly. It is clear that there was a secret order and if it were to be in the New Democracy programme that Mr Stavuras said. He had a pandemic. Let's go for a year and a half a pandemic with new phenomena and new oppression that is even new poverty within the Greek people. This is therefore an absolutely unsatisfactory intervention. You're incorrigible. Let me have that expression. The pandemic doesn't change your minds or rota. And the prolongation of the pandemic brings a great deal to bear in the problems of dematerialisation, that is to say, whether it appears to be arbitrary government - all governments - internationally appear in relation to the rights of social, personal and society. And you have been in the trelear, if you like, of such an anti-democratic function. That is why I referred earlier to the ERT. As you know, this is a very important phenomenon and Parliament must become the centre of this control, because for months perhaps this situation will exist with pandemic, all the acts of government. The German Parliament is very concerned. Look at the Siomple - Merkel dialogue two days ago. It concerns the British parliament very much for bills prepared by Mr Johnson for the aftermath of Brexit and after the pandemic. It concerns the issue of democracy internationally. So it is not so comfortable to "decide and order" and bring oblivion and silence through controlled media. Let me tell you. There is something more general and I will speak strategically, because some of the New Democracy's colleagues have attempted this by concealing the substance. Fortunately, however, some major newspaper headlines last week were very revealing. Where does this attempt of yours and of such an abstract social bills and other anti-democratic actions, I would say, character? They are digits in a puzzle to rewrite the history of the decade, the history of the crisis, the responsibilities of the political forces that led to the bankruptcy of this country. This is a pandemic of historical review, which is being attempted by the leadership of the New Democracy, with the upcoming strategy of both ends in the political life of the place, of course, with full help from all these factors and the interests we say to us as being the anti-SYRIZA front - not only that - and that is the banks, part of the media and the government. Does that remind you of anything? Is it the complex of interlocutory that led the country to bankruptcy with great responsibilities? So what are you doing? You are attempting with these bills to formulate a perception that for all they were antisystemic forces, in this case SYRIZA who took over the country's governance for four and a half years, a political bone of lies and inaccurate, on the basis of which you want to acquit your own policies, the policies that you are bringing here on a number of issues, to disintegrate a whole policy that has led the country to bankruptcy and which now leads to an extension of new dead ends in the pandemic and the pandemic leaves a heavy social footprint. Bring all the information from the INE - GSY, bring all the information from the bodies that spoke about this bill to tell you in front of what Armageddon social is the country, precisely because there has been the pandemic all these months and it continues and precisely because there have also been policies not to prevent these consequences, not to support, with direct subsidies and precisely because there has been a glimpse of the banking sector, which has been called as an intermediary. Now we are also going to a private body in relation to management, in relation to the specific bill we are discussing about bankrupt properties. They themselves are called upon to manage the further poverty, the further prolongation of the social issue in our country. It is an extremist, abstract social neoliberal policy, to which we are obliged not to denounce, but fully documented, as matters have brought in here, beyond the Chief of Officerial Anti-Population and Mr Tsakalotos, Mrs Ahtsoglou, but colleagues and all the opposition parties, lead to the fact that this bill should be withdrawn, not to vote on Monday if the motion of censure for the Minister who took up this bill as a turning point in evolution, as I said, is not passed on to the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only conclude by referring to the fact that a number of colleagues from the government have referred to the question of the trial and the decision on the Golden Dawn. I am very sorry, because, instead of the upsurge, instead of the democratic upsurge, which should have caused all the forces of the socio-political, democratic, anti-fascist and anti-fascist forces to be brought to bear by this decision and by evolution, from the leadership of the New Democracy, just before it came out, not only was the decision taken before the 15th day, as I said before, Mr Chrysochidis, to dismantle with any pretext the great anti-fascist event, but also the knives and files were opened with false evidence against other political forces. It's a shame. I'm telling you right. Here in this House I told you about the four and a half years that this House, with all present and with wide consensus, managed politically, institutionally, punishing those who were to the limits and also with new regulatory frameworks, which were here as the leader of the Golden Dawn, now as a criminal organization in prisons. Nobody said anything different from us. But at the same time you moved the Criminal Codes. It also proved to be in the debate that took place in Mr Venizelos' circle, if I am not mistaken, but elsewhere at all levels, and it proved itself to be the decision and implementation of the decision that there was no sign of any synergy, not of allegiance but of alleviating the convicted because of the Criminal Codes. You've played it for days in all the media. It proved and you know that the simple analogue was blocked by the Golden Dawn and by the New Democracy, which was contrary to the simple analogue here. He never voted nor was he invited to vote with SYRIZA on the simple analogue. Everything you said, the whole arsenal for days has been splitting, poisonous. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, I cannot tell you, because it has a personal side, it has been released for for forty-eight hours, dear and dear colleagues of the New Democracy, on this blurred side of the internet, who are committing murders of characters, etc., my own wide picture in here at the seat of Mr. Pikrammenos, to kiss the hand of Michaeliakos. This started with a regional channel of social media that had something to do with your own space - it doesn't play a role - and then multiplyingly left this thing. Forty-eight hours there has been no disapproval from New Democracy even in it. Give it to it! There is no disapproval of this disgrace, which I am telling you was an offspring in relation to all the other things that have been said, instead of the democratic commonwealth we should have had. We insist. We assemble what the anti-Fascist Manos Hatzidakis - who yesterday was the anniversary of his birth - had said in very difficult times: Do not compromise with the monster, do not come in contact with him, do not confuse yourself, because you will soon be like him. And our call to the Greek people at this juncture is the other phrase, the historic phrase if you want phrase, which one of the protagonists who sat up five years in court, a lawyer, said and passed. We therefore call on the Greek people to be permanent with bees and not wolves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. "Herbial" in the 8th cycle of six minutes will make Mr Stefanos Gikas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by setting the framework within which the Qualified Opposition decided to table a motion of censure towards the Minister of Finance. Our country is currently facing two major problems, two fronts - fire. One is, of course, the front of our national issues with Turkey's most provocative behaviour, which directly disputes national sovereign rights and which, since the beginning of the year, we have been very close to a hot episode, which could develop into a major crisis. Especially in the last few years, the situation has been explosive. The entire Armed Forces are in operational preparedness and vigilance, they are at the forefront of ensuring national sovereign rights. The second front, of course, is the coronary front. It is an unprecedented pandemic for the whole planet, for at least our own generation, which has brought problems to all states and, if we do not pay attention, in a short time, our economy with lockdowns will probably paralyse again, as is the case with other European countries. So we have two major problems. In particular, the first requires national unity, unity, cooperation, synergy and, of course, the second. So at this time, with these two important issues in excitement, it has been found that the Qualified Opposition has tabled a motion of censure, which, as we all know, is a motion of censure instead of forging national unity, creating polarisation and broadening the line between the parties. It is a false political move, nationally harmful, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I would, of course, accept that this motion of censure was made because the Minister of Finance had fallen into a slip of holocaust, in a major scandal, which, of course, the Civic Anti-Civilization could not pass arrogant pouring. But at the moment we have a Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura, who is indeed viewed as the result of the most successful ones. And you know it's not just us Members of the League say it. Europe says so, the markets say so. Four successful evaluations during this period. Four successful evaluations that brought over 1.5 billion to the funds from maintaining the profits of Greek bonds. Not one, not two, not three. Seven times the country came into the market, concentrated over 16 billion at low interest rates. As soon as the interest rate was 1,152, the lowest for the fifteen-year bond in history. Is that just what it means? It means that the markets trust the Greek economy, they trust the prospect of the Greek economy. The country is becoming more competitive, more reliable and that is why we have these performances. But, at the wheel of the economy, it's Mr. Staruras. So you come and put forward a motion of censure and, of course, that is not all. If you see in the last year the twelve bills that have been submitted - ten bills from July 2019 to July 2020 - the body of structural changes, the important financial interventions, then of course we are talking about another tactical and political one, obviously to cover inner-party problems. However, I must - since I have a little more time - make a comment on the former President of the Parliament, whom I appreciate and respect. This bill, my dear Mr President, for which it is so important that it solves a major problem. Too many citizens are swayed in the courts, a lifetime is agitated. They can't transfer to their children property, they can't transfer their children their property, or too many inheritances aren't accepted. So he's coming through this law and he's giving a way out through the extrajudicial compromise with twenty years of settlement, you can find a solution. And we say no? We therefore trust the Minister for Finance, who is also following the policies of the Government, and of course we believe that this move, which you have made, is in the complete wrong direction, especially at this crucial time for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Gika. Mrs. Olga Gerovasili is called to Step by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, as a Qualified Opposition with a full consciousness of our role, we continue to put back on the issues of pandemic management, based on the suggestions of scientists. I would remind you, however, that the New Democracy Government has chosen, after the first phase of the pandemic, to promote political choices in the directions of scientists. I would remind you that, for the opening of tourism and the so-called return to normality - that was the narrative at the time - the government has obviously given the storms of Santorini more weight than for checks and tests to be carried out at the time of entry into the country. Thus, the government gave a wrong signal to a society that displayed and displayed a proverbial patience. And now, of course, having lost control, with the well-known cooling you show with the finger on society. Fellow Members of the New Democracy, the attitude of responsibility that we have held and which we have as Dedicated Opposition does not mean tolerance to the irresponsibility of the government. With our motion of censure, we have called for the withdrawal of the bill, the bankruptcy bill. And we are here to have this three-day debate and to tell the Greek people that we will not allow you to hide any more. We will not allow in secret such legislative initiatives that are coming to level Greek society. And of course, it will be revealed in this debate how you act the most nightmareous scenarios at the expense of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, what was not done with the stock exchange scandal, in the bankruptcy of 2010, the PSI Mr. Stagiras undertook to complete it. It brought the bankruptcy bill while the epidemic is fading - which, of course, I would remind you of is not the collapsing of buses, it is not the collapsing in schools - with the economic and social crisis in full progress and, of course, with the Turkish regime unfolding its expansion agenda. However, when this social holocaust came to the House, Mr. Mitsotakis, who was in the middle of the day, chose to be absent, left out of the castle, and when the Minister accepted the motion of censure, Mr. Mitsotakis did not turn it into a proposal of confidence towards the government. Mr. Loverdos tried to tell you that, with this attitude, you do not seem to support your Minister. Then Mr. Loverdos realized that Mr. Stavros received the same support as the staff of the National Health System and the middle class from Mr. Mitsotakis: He handed over and left. Of course, neither the MPs and ministers who have spoken since yesterday in this Chamber came to support bankruptcy law. I think that in the speeches of 1/10 of their time - and I say very much - no one has dealt with the bill. And this, as the President has developed before, Nikos Voutsis, because the main line is in hiding. On the contrary, we hear all the speeches opposing SYRIZA and even for the period 2012-2015, a favorite period to oppose opposition. And everyone is trying to tell as much or more powerful lies as you can, you seem to be strangled, sold to lies, possibly to give credentials. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, neither can you make any standards for masks nor can you make any standards for buses. The final state has a unique ability: When taking an initiative, it turns it into a crisis, from the economy, the pandemic, the nationalities, the inability to conceive the convicted Poppa. However, legislate without memorials what has been avoided in the hard years of the memorials. And, of course, the titles, those I can use, of course, those that I can: Direct awards, squandering of public money, creating of a poster state, preferably with false degrees and half the Criminal Code, reducing individual, social rights, reducing democracy, reducing freedom of information, unemployment, expulsion of poverty, recession before pandemic and much more. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, very quickly. And now, in the midst of a pandemic, you ask citizens because of a coronary to stay in their homes, to stay safe, as the gold-payed campaign said, don't go out on the street. You throw them on the road. Remove all protection, introduce for the first time the bankruptcy of citizens, pensioners, professionals, farmers and others. Make a shed of property, liquidation of first home, violent poverty. And to close sooner, since the time has closed, I will not very much analyse the bill. After all, several of the rapporteurs and speakers have been analysed. But we - you know - have a duty to reveal the truth, to reveal and to act and to invite you once more to come out of your virtual reality. Try to get into normal life and understand the effects of your actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gerovali. Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Vassilis Viliardos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say to Mr Loverdo that if we were to have a debt deficit in 2009, as he said, then what do we have today, with over 200% plus the'red' private one that was then negligible when in 2009 public debt was just 127% of GDP? As far as the bankrupt is concerned, in Germany he can't even rent a house. This is practical experience. In Germany, some similar laws apply. We will now begin by the fact that we, the Greek Solution, have tabled a first objection of anti-constitutionality, since with the new bankruptcy that makes bankruptcy compulsory for the debtor, which we characterised voluntarily as an abortion, do not respect a whole series of articles of the Constitution, while crime will be completed by speeding up procedures for those protected by the law Katselis with a new law and with the final result of their robbery. Where will their homes end up? In left-wing banks, in international capital, in the "curtains", as they are probably called in the superstition, that is, where our state property leads to degrading prices supposedly for the reduction of our public debt, which, however, continues to grow rapidly along with the "red" private one. What's that bankruptcy law and the next one that completes it? A new much worse memorandum which concerns no longer the wages, pensions and the broken social state, but the assets of the Greeks, their homes, their deposits and everything else that belongs to them. Why is it being introduced at the worst possible time, with the Greek bankrupt, with the pandemic getting worse and with the recession on its offspring, with the fatal deflation that has affected our economy? Because now it is a great opportunity for the "brows" to get everything we have and do not have. Despite the fact that Article 23 of the European Directive had been guided by the possibility of protecting the residence of the debtor, provided that the period of exemption from its debts after the bankruptcy was declared to be extended in time, such a choice has not been chosen. Why is it true? What's the point of hiding from behind? Does the government not know that massive bankruptcies of debtors will bring about the divestment of dwellings and their eviction with a serious risk of breaking social cohesion? This motion of censure relates to the Minister of Finance, but to his face obviously the entire government, just as it leads Greece from evil to worse having failed in all areas. One could say that it is also about the troika that has never left, and of course it is not democratically controlled by our country. It is also a reproach against the Troika interior that condemned Greece in its present fracture, while the statement by SYRIZA, who together with the New Democracy and the Change Movement, signed the third memorandum, which provides for many of these crimes that are being committed gradually, is worse than political hypocrisy. We are reminded here that the law which validates the third memorandum in the second part of Article 3 and paragraph 3, which refers to the settlement of non-performing loans, clearly states the obligation to speed up and tighten the eligibility criteria for the protection of the first residence, which was partly launched with the SYRIZA law that succeeded the Katseli law by reducing the number of protected - each time the number - lasting until the elections. This is what the lenders always do: they share their robbery decisions with all those who participate in the Memorandum, so that the respective voters of one party or another do not react. Why are all these crimes now gradually being launched together, such as the PSI, the delinquency of banks, the supranationality, the independent of the Ministry of Finance, the bankrupt today and so many others? Why gradually? Because this is how people get used to and do not react, just as the frog first placed in lukewarm water and does not realize when it is hot leading to its slow death. However, the proposed bankruptcy bill, which needs to be withdrawn as we have already requested from its first debate since the first day, is really outrageous for both citizens and any favoured state. We are effectively abolishing the protection of the principal residence of debtors, while the only provided, in very few cases economically weak, which we are counting on them at forty-five thousand of the first two thousand in protection, is the possibility of staying as tenants in their homes with a rental allowance that will in fact support the banks. If there is a miracle, and they have the money to buy back, they will have to pay back the remaining rents of the ten-year lease contract. For example, if they pay EUR 580 a month for twelve years, i.e. a total of EUR 83,520 for a house worth EUR 100,000, after 12 years they will be forced to pay again EUR 100,000 by losing what they have given them, and if, in six years, they want to buy it back, they will have to pay the remaining rents, i.e. EUR 41,760 plus EUR 100,000, a total of EUR 141,000, even though more will be taken into account at the time. If that's possible! Continuing, of course, we did not expect the governments of the memoranda that have violated it to respect the Constitution on several occasions, as the President of Greece, Mrs Sakellaropoulou, said, because he foretold the public's cash interest. But much worse what concerns bankruptcy is not the public's cash interest, but the private shareholders of banks which are even predominant from the state, which is not happening in any other country. Only in Greece is this happening. Of course Greece has long ceased to be a country, having become a defenceless region, unfortunately. On the other hand, a very large number of companies with standard criteria for inability to pay, as described in Article 77, can be forced to go bankrupt by fast-track procedures, which means that the coronary will not destroy it, especially banks. It will look like a patient who is closely monitored with a chip, so when he exceeds a limit, he will automatically drive to surgery and operate with little chance of avoiding his death, little because nowhere in the bill mentions bailouts, but only seizures and auctions. Further, in the seventh assessment of the European Union, page 102 if I remember correctly, it is already stated that the new bankruptcy law will be introduced in October. Also, that the procedures will be accelerated. It's all reported. Others rule Greece. In the sixth assessment it writes the same thing, but with a significant difference, that these houses would be purchased by a state-owned entity on page 111. So what has happened with today's law will be taken over by a private body? What's changed? Will this institution be controlled by the banks and the eviction process? On the other hand, because the government did not adopt the solution we proposed from the outset, the American model of what Roosevelt adopted in 1934, with which everyone would rescue the homes. Why didn't he? But enough with the bankrupt, since it is, in fact, the climax of the government's crimes and failures. Mr. Stavros and even more Mr. Hatzidakis, who has the task of selling everything on his orders, obviously, and also Mr. Georgiadis, with his inability to formulate an effective development policy, despite the fact that we supported his bill, and in general the government is responsible for the complete failure of the economy, the success of which was their most important pre-election commitment, but also the concern mainly of the citizens. We have already mentioned that the government failed to bring 4% growth, as promised in 2019, while the growth rate was already down to 1% in the fourth quarter of 2019 before the pandemic of 2.3% previously. The government failed to submit a revised budget after March, which we called for, like other countries and obviously Germany which is richer, so that measures to tackle pandemic can be taken from the outset, as well as its new figures, both domestically and internationally, so that our businesses can plan their actions. The government failed after not launching the appropriate measures to support our economy by constantly announcing false figures, particularly as regards its financial interventions. That was why she did not submit a revised budget, so that her lies and extreme neoliberalism do not appear, which will literally destroy the middle-class, because it is really an extreme neoliberalism, an incredible policy that will lead to the complete destruction of the middle-class. The government has failed to deal effectively with COVID -19 locking the economy despite the low cases and without asking anyone, then uncontrollably opening the border to tourism and thus turning our islands into over-transmission. Unfortunately, even from countries with a high number of cases under pressure from airlines and our partners, according to Mrs Bakoyannis's statements, not ours. Mrs. Bakoyannis said that. What would be the solution? The qualitatively high and safe health tourism that we had in time proposed would be of greater importance in increasing revenue through higher prices than in the number of tourists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. The Government has failed in the final state after the ineffective functioning of the public sector has continued. What was the solution? The State's reduction, rather than its growth so that it has lower costs, is also more flexible and effective. The government has failed to change our economic model where the solution would be to deal with the health crisis as an opportunity because of the relaxation of European rules and not as a problem by continuing to promote the model that has failed us in the past, based almost exclusively on tourism. The government has failed in its legislative work, since the bills it submits are either translated instructions from the European Union - that is, in essence - or a sum of laws enriched with numerous coup amendments. Almost always behind useful articles hide insidiously problematic provisions and this often prevents us from voting on them. He does this by invoking several emergency measures for the pandemic. In other words, it uses pandemic to enforce the policy that creditors want to impose. The Government has failed in the national issues with the non-timely proclamation of EEZ, with its partial delimitation later, with the freezing of natural gas reserves surveys south of Crete, with the energy dependence of our country that promotes, by selling off our energy companies and networks, as well as with its attitude towards Turkey, which insults our national pride not at all respecting our sovereign rights. The government has also failed in migration, with the delayed and under pressure of developments in lukewarm response to our islands that are methodically populated by Turkey. What was the solution? The closure of borders with the activation of Article 78 of the Maastricht Treaty, which we shall be tabling again in the Minutes. Everywhere failures, only failures at the expense of our country and its citizens. The new bankruptcy code, the new memorandum, better together with the collapse of our economy and the depopulation of Turkey, is the drop that has ended the glass of all our patience, the consensus of the parties, which we sought in view of adverse national developments. In conclusion, I should like to stress that Greece is facing many problems today. But everything started from the economy, from the coup d'état of our country to the memorials and its governance by the troika, to the ones that destroyed our health system and led us to today's chaos, where we do not only risk the loss of our public and private property, but also our territorial mutilation, which began with the tradition of nation and half of the state in Skopje, as a government fan said. Nevertheless, our public debt, as well as the'red' private one, has long been non-viable and we have again superb twin deficits, probably two-digit ones, which is increasing public debt, while the other is our private debt. At some point, then, we have to say: that's enough! Enough with the German governments - understood and enforce the memorials! At some point they have to stop all this. The issue of debt must now be put to the table, how much more so if the revised details of ELSTAT that we will present in the Minutes, as well as many others relating to the future course of our country, not the ones presented to us as fait accompli and lead us to disappear as a country and as a nation, are applied. I'm telling you, honestly. I believe that all this leads us to our disappearance as a country and as a nation. That is all we regret, but we have no confidence either in the Minister or in his government, which manages everything irresponsible and communications, which is trying to mislead citizens by turning their way to hell with rose petals. I'm afraid so. We neither trust it nor the Greek people, who are even being led to the loss of their first residence without it being the fault of themselves, but the economic collapse and all the governments of the Memorandums that have provoked it. The citizens have not caused this disaster, but their governments have over the last ten years. It is unbelievable to destroy and must not continue. That is why we will obviously vote in favour of reproach, and hopefully to abide by the government, despite the fact that it will not suffer - and we know - any defeats with a hundred and fifty-eight Members who do not have the right to express their individual views. We've seen it dozens of times. None of the Members of the House have the right to express their own views. They are voting blindly on what the ministers are presenting to them, obviously with the approval of the Prime Minister, who governs our country - we all know it - as a monarch, refusing to convene a council of party Presidents, even on serious national issues, such as what we are experiencing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that I will now give the floor to Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, a Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. The Deputy Minister of Finance will then speak, Mr. Theodoros Skeylakis, then two MPs, Mr. Baraliakos and Mr. Poulas, and then the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Lebanese. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when should anyone have to change their minds? I take a neoliberal, a neoliberal one in the 1980s to 2000, which either bite the sheet of neoliberalism or was not entirely convinced, but thought that there was no alternative and believed that neoliberalism would increase growth and investment because it would liberate entrepreneurship. Twenty, thirty years later, he sees low investment and low growth with historical relationship after 1945. Now it's at the lowest level in all the countries of the Western world. I hope you do not disagree with that, Mr. Dog. It has heard that there is no problem that the disparities have increased since 1980, because there will be a diffusion at the end of the day. And twenty, thirty years later that not only is there no diffusion, not only have the inequalities of all kinds increased in the Western world, in Europe, in Greece, in Germany, in America, in Britain, but also in wages. In other words, it is not an inequality that everyone wins, but some earn more. Some of them stand still and some of them win. Does he change his mind? We are talking about a neoliberal who read Fukuyama, the "Fend of ideologies" or read Ben Bernanki of the Central Bank of America, who spoke about the period of "great moderation", of great moderateness, where we would have political stability. And we had crises, we had Trump - I imagine that even neoliberals hope to lose the election in ten days - we had Johnson, we had Salvini, Orban, we had Golden Dawn in our own country. Does it change its mind then, after there was a promise of stability? Some cynical, more cynical than me, would say "some will change, some will not change". One cynicist will say that the reason why they won't change is that a part of society in America, Britain, in Greece had a very good crisis in 2009, had a very good crisis in Greece in the period 2012-2015 and they hope in a very good crisis now, even with COVID -19, even with the economic crisis. These thoughts came to me when I wondered what has to be done empirically so that a neoliberal can change his mind, say that the world has changed, that what was promised to him or promised to him was not done in practice. I am listening to Mr Stavoura, who says that 'we have spent twelve bills'. Was it in one direction to help growth and reduce inequalities and stable wages? In HISBIA the piece over what we brought and we have agreed it was for the greatest properties. The reduction in the tax on profits, I imagine, is not for the poorest. You did a few things about the middle layers, but the budget itself, the draft budget you submitted to Europe shows an increase in inequalities. Is that what you're worried about? Aren't you worried? Do you think you're changing Roots, that you're dealing with these problems that have come to the surface? And, of course, the question is: could it have been different? Mr. Stavros began with predictions of zero recession, then went to 4%, then went to 5% and then went to 8%. When you do, you're as conservative and you don't see what's going on in front of you, it's after all that you won't take as rapid steps as it takes. And how was the pillow used? Mr. Staruras came and told us how many times they came out on the market. Didn't he come out because of the pillow? Didn't it come out because the debt is set, at least at the level of flow, for the next ten to fifteen years? Didn't he go out because of Lagard and what happened? But that's not the sovereign. Why is the pillow still 36.37 billion? What is the concept of a pillow? If you are interested in inequality, if you want to reverse some of the problems that have brought us to the crisis, is it not to use it in bad times - I hope we are in bad times now, is there anyone who says that we are booming - and then to replace it in good times? If we were to disagree, I'd say going down to 26, 27, and one of you would say 30, that would be a difference that makes sense. But you're showing us that he's always 36, 37. When will it be, what they say in Britain, 'the rainy day' that you will need to use? And don't you realize that you don't use this means you're going to need something more in the future, why would they fall even further than the revenue needs and there's going to be even more recession than it would have been necessary? And you tell us again and again about 24 billion meters. Only if we look at the preliminary draft budget you have tabled in Table 2.5, it seems clear that permanent non-repayable expenditure is not more than 4.5 billion and about 3 billion more contributions on the revenue side, except for suspensions that are charged to the world, i.e. 7.5 billion. Why do you trouble the world and cause confusion and keep saying for 24 billion when you know that the measure to compare real measures is 7 billion? You are constantly saying that the protection of the first residence was abolished by the SYRIZA government. Then why would the institutions have such an impulse to get you to sign that you're going to abolish it? They didn't know? Didn't they? And why did you commit to abolishing something that didn't exist? From acquired speed to agree with what you're told? And when, on 13 January 2020, Mr Georgiadis said this - I repeat, on 13 January 2020: 'I stress that the framework for absolute protection of the first residence will not exist after 31 April. I say this from today, because I do not want to spoil our hearts after 30 April", you all say that it was abolished - how many speeches we have heard! - In February 2019, tell me exactly what Mr Georgiadis would abolish in April 2020? Why do we continue this debate instead of having a controversy about how to protect the first home, what measures do they need, how do we need to change in this bill the scale between liquidation and debt restructuring? We call it liquidation? Read in the first two articles what the bill says. You say that it is basically for the liquidation of debts. Your logic is social darninism, the survival of the most powerful. You're telling us that you're doing this so that the next generations don't have to do a legacy denomination. That's right. Now that you take it all, you leave him nothing, so he doesn't have a legacy to make the next generations get rid of. And you get him part of his wages for three years. As a punishment? What exactly? As an incentive, so he can buy the house after twelve years? And because I have heard criticism that I see only Hollywood's plays, to tell you a Greek film by Constantara "The man who was smashing fun", who left him only in a suit, with nothing else, but in the film Constantaras had a second chance, because all this was a prank. But in your case, it's not a farce, it's a tragedy, it's a reality, and that's what you have to deal with. Now we go where I started: What the neoliberals promised and whether they would have to change their minds. What was the promise of neoliberalism and globalisation? That globalisation will affect some miners, some who work in the textile industry, but in the new children they will open up new possibilities. That's not what happened. And you, Mr. Loverdo, who speaks against the squares, know that the squares were not of the working class of the old, in danger of globalisation. They were young children who promised that through globalisation they would study and have new jobs and more jobs and come behind their studies in Britain, France, America and not only had better jobs than parents, but worse jobs than parents, both in Greece and in Europe and in Britain. And now we have a Prime Minister who actually tells us that young people are either partying or cogning. If you don't know the cogning, the Prime Minister told her the word. Is that really your opinion of our youth? Do you realize how hard the roses are to marry and have children and have a home? Do you realize how difficult it is to be able to do this without a normal housing policy, social housing, subsidies? Do you realize how many young children can't have a professional development profile? What do you say to these kids with this bill? You're not saying anything. That is why we hope in a new generation that has realised that all neoliberal promises were false and appeared in practice both in investment and in jobs and in quality of work and in society. Muffy, then. Modification to Mr. Stakoura, because he brought a bill that he wanted to hide and not be discussed. Momph, because Mr. Mitsotakis wasn't even here to support it. Mobby, because your media system hid it. Momph, how you deal with a youth who thinks he doesn't have a chance. Finally, reproach, because you are hitting the core of democracy when you constantly repeat the same arguments as the same kills, without listening to not only the MPs of the opposition, but also to society. Momph, because you've lost your way, and soon it'll look like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u262	Thank you too, Mr Chakaloto, for keeping time. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis, is called in Stepma. I want you calmers here on the left just like they were on the right. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when does anyone have to change their minds? This is a very nice question and I would say that it has to change its mind when on its own government Greece borrows 4% of the interest rate and Mr. Stagira's office...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u264	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Dritsa, please. He didn't interrupt you. You've been doing this since you broke in. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u266	But he can't say that. He knows them and he's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u267	I do not understand why this disgrace from the opposition, which we listen to with religious reverence. Apparently, that's what's bothering you. So I'm going to say it again, from the beginning of annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u268	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u269	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u271	When does anyone have to change their minds? When he sees that his policy was a failure, it turns out to the finance ministers from the country's borrowing costs. The cost of loans before - COVID Greece in January 2020 to 1%, while in January 2019, Mr. Tsakalotos at around 4%, just below 4%. And now within COVID we still have 1%, despite the enormous difficulty we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u272	In spite of Lagard?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u273	For Lagard, you should know that trust is needed. You don't enter quantum relaxation without trust. And the main problem of the SYRIZA government, for which it had a beastly pillow, is that it did not inspire any confidence either in the markets or in the institutions, because it failed in any assessment. You were unsuccessful in the evaluations, you did not create confidence, and that is why you exaggerated the world to have, instead of trust, a pillow that cost the Greek economy more than ever more expensive. Now let's go to the motion of censure. It's a major parliamentary weapon. Excuse me to say that I find this particular and unsolved and impeccable. Assuming that the motion of censure against a minister requires a strong personal deception. Why would Mr. Stakoura personally deceive him? He's a wise man, a hard worker, a team, I assure you, very good at his job. On a personal level, I have not heard any reproach. Do you have anything with the bill brought by the government, which was part of its programme, as you rightly said, that is, did the Greek people vote for it? Make a motion of censure to the government. Why Mr. Stakoura? You are in the middle of a pandemic, economic crisis and crisis with Turkey, and you are choosing an acidity that I do not understand. If you thought the government had not done well on these three issues, you could address the motion of censure to her. But the reality is that Greece in the main indicator measuring the effectiveness of pandemic - deaths per one million population - is in the hundredth first place in the world today, with extremely low figures, despite the fact that it has a very old population, two very large urban centres - not Slovakia or Norway - and it also has tourism and illegal or irregular immigration and land workers going in - has exceptional difficulties - and despite the fact that we inherited a health system in 2019 with only fifty-five five IC. In the economy, all international organisations predicted that we would have the greatest recession in Europe when the case started. Now it seems and they say it themselves, that we will either be on the average or just above the Eurozone average, despite the very large part that tourism has in our own economy. And we have nowadays available so that we can get through in the space of the pandemic that remains - that we don't know how much it will be -. And not only available, especially we have confidence. Again, trust is much more important than available. As far as Turkey is concerned, you have seen that the government and strong alliances have built up and taken serious initiatives, such as arrangements with Egypt, Italy, Albania and the twelve miles in the Ionian Sea, which have never taken place before for decades. I think, finally, that there was not much thought, that the motion of censure was a little unsatisfactory, because this question of private debt is a matter to which you have a past. We must not forget that the Civic Opposition was talking about the famous "I don't pay" movement and pushing people in this direction. It is also very real that at the beginning of 2019 the abolition of the protection of the first residence, which, by successive postponements, finally reached the end of July. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that no one has sat a little in serious thinking about what it means to be full of debts, what it means to have one or two assets and be your debts two, three, four times their value, such as the reality of many people. It means that even if you keep fingernails and teeth with an asset, your life is determined by the debt. Because, yes, you may hold this asset, but debts do not go away and as long as debts do not go away, you have neither a future nor a working family nor a social one. It's a nightmare. Here, then, we are making an honest proposal to end this nightmare to too many people and to get rid of their debts, to really have a second chance, which so far had no such potential, really no such opportunity. I would like to see that I have a very short time to finish with just one point that the House and this House need to know. A few days ago ELSTAT reviewed GDP statistics for Gross Domestic Product. Unfortunately, we fell about 3.5 billion down and this is about the whole period that started before 2015. The result is both GDP and growth rates of the period before 2019. That is, in fact, at current prices, we had in 2014 177,3 billion and in 2018 179,7 billion and practically this means that the country is in a more difficult position to deal with both debt issues and deficit issues in the coming years. So we need to be very wise. It is very important that the government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis succeeded in getting this very large amount from the Recovery Fund, but we must use it with great certainty and efficiency, because the era is difficult, the time ahead uncertain about the end of the pandemic. There is recovery, but in order to get there we will have to go in a spirit of dialogue and understanding, with efficiency in governance and with responsibility. No one's infallible. But I sincerely feel that as a member of the government of Mr Mitsotakis I am involved in a government that does its duty towards the people and the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Dog. And we're going to Katerinius, Mr. Xenophonta Baraliaco from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the choice of Officer Responsibility to table a motion of censure against the Government's Minister of Finance highlights in the most emphatic way the strategic deadlock in which it has arrived. A serious parliamentary procedure is transformed into cheap tactics and evacuation valve in SYRIZA into a desperate attempt to compromise the inner audience. However, the lack of a convincing account and the absence of a political reason for the Anti-Population Officer is not being hampered by fireworks communication. In fact, how turbulence and hypocrisy you have attacked, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to support this motion of distrust, when on your day Greeks have been found to be outdated, without any protection of their residence. From the election "Share" in the squares, abnormal landing to the reality of thousands of electronic auctions. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I hear the lies, which are without shame recycled in your speech on the protection of first residence. I have not heard from any of SYRIZA's colleagues to tell us what is going on today with the first residence, what the protection framework is. It was your government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who abolished horizontal protection of first residence in February 2019. He was then the Minister of Finance who said that electronic auctions are in the positive direction, probably forgetting the motto 'no house in the hands of a banker'. So enough of your hypocrisy! You added EUR 50 billion to private debt in the country, that is to say a billion every month and allowed the problem to grow, without making any effort at all. In an unresponsible irresponsibility, amid the culmination of the Greek-Turkish crisis and the outbreak of pandemic, you are putting forward a motion of censure to Mr. Stakora. This is not a motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, but a gift of self-confidence. The Minister of Finance, with fourteen adopted bills in less than fourteen months, has done much more and with multiple fronts open than you have done in four and a half years of government service. You have made a proposal for distrust to a Minister who has reduced the tax on companies, reduced the tax on natural persons, reduced HNPI and abolished it on the remote islands, increased the tax on each child, went to the markets with a history of low in the 15-year bond, created a pro-investment environment in our country, suspended the VAT on the building, prevented the deep material effects of the pandemic with financial instruments, covered insurance and employers' contributions, provided liquidity on the market with three phases of returnable advance and special purpose allowances, suspended any kind of tax debt, strengthened the affected sectors, simplified the protection net for workers and many more that my six-minute speech is not enough to say. We, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are not apprentices. It is a pity at such a critical juncture for the country that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, is at his wheel and Christos Stagios, with his partners and not someone with fraud. The Greek citizens paid enough. Allow me, by ending my speech, to make a brief reference to the bill to protect our highly indebted fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common assumption that the private debt in Greece today has been increased dangerously, since it exceeds EUR 234 billion. It is for this reason that the vote on the new bankruptcy bill is of imperative nature, because, on the one hand, it frees from the suffocating size of debts a significant proportion of citizens who have stayed at home and uncertain, on the other hand, the process and the legal framework are being simplified. Citizens are protected and more efficient and faster. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to stress that, with the bill on the second opportunity and the settlement of debts, we are putting an end to the hostage of our vulnerable fellow citizens and giving them breath and fresh oxygen to relaunch a new start. Besides, it doesn't matter how many times you're going to fall, but get up so many more and even stronger and, above all, no weights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr. Baraliaco. From Pieria we go to Argolida, Mr. Andreas Poula from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the country is experiencing one of the most difficult situations of post-multi-population, with many open fronts within and outside Greece. Of course, the opportunity for today's debate is the new bankruptcy code that you are bringing to the vote. This is another piece of legislation that is cut and sewn to the banks' measures, without any social sensitivity. Contrary to the expectations created by the election, it gives the graceful shot to the memory and pandemic of the middle-class coronary, as it does not provide any protection to small and medium-sized households, but also to the hard-tested Greek family. It is now clear that the only law that really protected citizens is Law 3869/2010. I would remind you that it was the then PASOK government that set foot against the strong resistance of bankers who have even asked for the help of the European institutions to stem this first legislative effort to regulate private debt in the country. Law 3869 offered a real opportunity to our winter citizens, with insurances and a spirit of justice, as it had the honorable intention to give the burden of the economic crisis fairly. Because no one forgets and should not forget the banks' responsibilities regarding the financial collapse of households in the 10-year economic crisis. No one forgets business loans without guarantees, loans for holidays, credit cards, loans for Swiss francs, with which households have been charged. One cannot forget that the bankers have pressurized to transfer the burden of their own mismanagement to the debtors. Gradually, the protection of the law began to diminish and the bureaucracy went beyond the substance, while the exacerbation of systematic malpractices was the permanent justification of the respective ministers, in order to impose ever more rigour on the conditions of integration. Finally, we arrived at the famous platform of Law 4605/2019, on which banks do not show willingness to comply, and thus fall within their limited protection even fewer beneficiaries. Today that the horn pandemic creates a new generation of overlaps, you bring to the vote a legislation that is completely inferior to social circumstances and economic needs. This is a law that serves the banks, punishes the middle class and moves towards the implementation of your neoliberal plan for the economy, where the medium-sized one is led to impoverishment and the distance of economic classes is weakened. However, if SYRIZA thinks he is discharged of his responsibilities, because today’s government is implementing a conservative, hard and economic agenda, he is being deceived. Who excavated the indignant in the squares? Who was tossing the memos? Who served the lenders more loyally than your own government? A moment ago, Mrs. Gerovas denounced that the PSI was destructive, as SYRIZA did before 2015. Here seems to be the size of hypocrisy, but you should say that as a government and more as an Opposition. SYRIZA's budgets mention the PSI as a useful and effective tool, which has reduced public debt, and that is why I also submit copies of the relevant documents. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] [[At this point the Member, Mr Andreas Pulas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, it was the PASOK who paid dearly for the economic crisis. Nevertheless, the pandemic has been the reason for recognising the value of its contribution to public health. The value of the despised until before HSH and the reforms that the PASOK put into practice in the field of health was recognised. Modern hospitals, university hospitals, health centers, increased state health expenditure, e-prescription, EEAY, electronic file, control of pharmaceutical expenditure. You dared, Mr. Stakoura, to charge us the memos. But look what you delivered us in 2009. I would like to remind you that the governance of the country by New Democracy is identical to the shrinking of the welfare state, waste and huge debts. And we do not forget the debts that the Karamanlis government left in December 2009, which were only 6.9 billion people for health. And we come to the management of the health crisis that we are experiencing from your government. In your attempt to save the economy, you make one mistake after the other. You opened the border by making a mistaken assessment of the situation. We pay the price of reluctance to organize the structures of primary health care. The EGE was unable to respond to the monitoring of remote incidents and the control of dispersion in closed structures such as nursing homes and reception and identification centres. There was no central planning and the time gained from good scientific management of the first wave was not used. Preparing schools was incomplete, concentrating on public transport is a day-to-day reality, turning up on outbreaks of virus transmission and you have done nothing about it. In hospitals you let time go wasted. The new IF beds were recommended with delay and arithmetically it appears that it is not enough. They operate with subsidiary staff and distractions, as the recruitments you have announced will be delayed. The hospital budgets have been exhausted because of the pandemic, thus degrading health services to the citizens. The tests are the territory of speculators. You even refuse today to price them, allowing private laboratories to invoice at the appropriate rate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. You don't tell us clear words about increasing health expenditure. In this year's budget, it seems that while the Koroni crisis is going badly, you are still reducing the health budget. With what logic? As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, you are not telling us what you are going to do. Are you going to build new infrastructure that the health area needs? What's your design? Ladies and gentlemen, public health is a very serious issue to go with acrobatics without a plan. Today your Government is judged on its inability to take advantage of the time for the benefit of society, on the incapacitation of excellence and on the normalization of virtues. You have never considered the small and medium-sized, farmers, the unemployed, the vulnerable social groups. All you care about is serving the interests of capital. The Change Movement is here to remind the citizens when and for what reasons Greece was better, stronger and safer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Poula. The pleasant thing is that we are in the Chamber who should be. The unpleasant thing is that because of the mask you are forced to shout and create a noise that disturbs the speaker. Spyridon Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilio) Lebanon, Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, is called at Stepma Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start my speech in response to Mr Voutsi. We are obviously condemning any man-made and man-made attack on the former President of the Parliament, but also against any politician and any citizen. Our party always makes controversy within democratic frameworks and we always think that these tactics are far from us. We also expect Mr Voutsis and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative to condemn all those who are now aiming for and murdering characters with or without the signatures of social media and media. The Parliamentary spokesman for Mera25 is missing, but I honestly cannot understand Mr Varoufakis' insistence on causing us all in this Chamber to regain the tragic results of his policy when he was 'asset', Mr Tsipras' right hand. After what Mr. Skoplakis said a while ago, things will probably get worse when we put them down. But to this day we knew that Mr Varoufakis' spectacular work cost 40 billion. This was the cost of capital controls. The cost of the recession in his months was 21 billion. The cost of bank recapitalisation was 5.4 billion, precisely because of capital controls and 9.6 billion of the austerity measures of the third and inappropriate memorandum that was the result of this tragic policy of Tsipras - Varoufakis. I do not know why the good colleague - whom I very much appreciate - returned to the issue of the period 2004-2009. We talked about it the other day. It was Kostas Karamanlis who in time took restrictive measures and asked for the national consultation of George Papandreou, who did not give it to me at that time under the motto "there are money". However, because other speakers in KINAL have referred to this issue, I would like to say and just remind the figures because I think everyone knows them. In 2003 the debt was 178 billion. In 2008, it was 262 billion, i.e. we had a 84 billion increase. From 84 billion to 70 billion went to repayment of the obligations of the previous period of PASOK. The 50 billion went for repayment of public debt interest at that time, 10 billion went for defence equipment, 2.5 billion for hospital debts, 7 billion for liabilities to the insurance funds. Cash assets in March 2004 were EUR 265 million. In September 2009, New Democracy delivered 7.7 billion. That's the reality. We all know her. I think we then know what happened in our country, we know why and how we went to the memorandum, because and how SYRIZA came. I think that then New Democracy and PASOK found a common place to save the country, to rectify it, and there I feel that we are in agreement with KINAL today. Let us not go back, because it does not benefit, apart from historical, any such debate. But if you want, that's the reality. As for the position of Mr Loverdos on the choice of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis not to turn the motion of censure into a vote of confidence, I would like to say that Article 84 of the Constitution provides for two different procedures, on the one hand, the vote of confidence in the government and, on the other, the motion of censure with each of its members. These are two different procedures which also require different parliamentary majorities. It takes 120 votes, trust and 151 votes. The motion of censure is a leading parliamentary weapon for each minority. This is exactly the right of the Opposition protects our Government by not turning it into a vote of confidence. Maybe SYRIZA - and here you're right - can deceive it for cheap, inner-party purposes. But the New Democracy Government protects constitutional and parliamentary order. You submitted to the Minutes the position of Kostas Karamanlis when he turned such a proposal to Mr Haloloskoufi in reproach for the government. That's what happened. But I would remind you that Costas Simitis, your Prime Minister, whom you were a Member of Parliament - and I do not remember now if you were a minister at the time - did the very opposite in two cases: one when a motion of censure was tabled for the Arsenis Senate and the other when a similar statement was tabled for Yannos Papantoniou was tabled. But that's in theory. For politically - let us not laugh, ladies and gentlemen - the Prime Minister and the Ministers and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group are clear that we are standing behind Christos Staikouris. We give 158 votes of confidence with faith and passion to the Minister of Finance, the second chance bill that we will vote on Monday and the government's successful overall reformist economic policy. However, you are not a more objective judge of our economic policy, nor are we, the Greek citizens, in terms of what is going on in our country, markets and investors in terms of numbers. For the first time, therefore, in the Greek time government facing a three-fold asymmetric crisis it increases its rates and the corresponding Census depraved loses over 40% of its voters. Our markets now lend at historically low interest rates, three times below what you left them, and the interest of the investors on the days that New Democracy governs is constantly increasing with significant investments of the "MICROSOT" of "PFIZER" and the others you know about them. The motion of censure you made against Mr Stakoura, however, hides, ladies and gentlemen, from SYRIZA, and from cowardice. Practically you were afraid to turn against Mr. Mitsotakis. That's clear. If SYRIZA wanted to, he could table a motion of censure against the government or even - if he really believed it would also ask for elections. If you dared then, Mr Chakaloto, we would see who has lost the way to society. But you do not, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. And you do not do it because you fear the people's will, fear the polls, fear because you are a small social minority. Fear the people and fear exactly the reproach of society. On the contrary, we are here united, proud of our policy and awaiting you with any challenge. And because you are completely disfellowshipped from society, Mr. Tsipras has tabled this vote of distrust to escape his party deadlocks. It is obviously a hopeless attempt to rally its members, to regain the initiative of movements in his party since he cannot recover it in society. Finally hide the impotence of politics, vision and suggestions. To fill your opposition void. Unfortunately, however, for you with this move you are simply confirming that you are politically naive, hypocritical and irresponsible. You have been well analysed by many New Democracy Members who will continue to whistle you up until tomorrow night. You cannot stand this whistle today - that is obvious - on the benches almost all day long there are not many of your Members sitting. Even you, Mr. Chakaloto, have come this afternoon. Unlike the New Democracy whose headquarters are full because the MPs are here precisely to support this government and this policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have failed again, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, yesterday and today, and I am sure that the same failure will take place tomorrow too, with arguments and suggestions. But it doesn't surprise us, because SYRIZA is not a party of principle and programme, it's just a product of the crisis. Indeed, Mr Tsakalotos - only Mr Tsakalotos - is desperate to give an ideological background to SYRIZA's rugged and foreign political speech. Unfortunately, however, he is also drowning between the name dropping philosophers and economists, his pan-supporting view of neoliberalism and his abundance of socialism, which he is supposed to serve, and of course, the criticism he is taking at the micro-political level from the presidential officials. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] But Mr Tsakalotos is drowning, above all because SYRIZA has no ideology, and he has no positions. SYRIZA is a party of opposition. You are just a party of 'thee'. In the economic crisis you saw your percentages rip off from 3% as a protest party that in the resalto to power you ruled tightly in the worst form of ethnicists. A party with a single adhesive the desire to take over the joints of power. Because as the efficiency of the New Democracy Government emerges in resolving the multi-level problems faced by our country is so weakened by SYRIZA. Considering, then, that he sinks, he tries to create artificial crises. Why, though, if he knows he's politically and rationally ridiculed? Why, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, for you, your oxygen, your oxygen, your SYRIZA oxygen and your other populist paratrophies are every form of crisis and that is all. And as long as these will successfully be dealt with by the government, both SYRIZA is suffocated and immersed. So this motion of censure, if the circumstances were not critical, would simply be funny because it is Mr Tsipras' last attempt to control his party, who doesn't trust anyone to confide in his plan - we saw this yesterday - you, that is, for a motion of censure - did not even collect the fifty signatures. You ran after he told you to find it and we don't even know who put it - to pick up your barons and dolphins and finally protect Mr. Tsipras from his own to wrestle any inner-party opponents trying to articulate a different political reason. When Mr Tsipras talks about the liberalisation of auctions - you have heard it many times and you will continue to listen to it - he does not object to Mr Stavoura, Mr Tsakalotos. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, your inner-party spasm leaves society indifferent to itself. You have come to a three-day debate where you will be defeated, where you are defeated by a state. Your defiance in society will continue. Once again, it turns out how few you are. Once again, you've gone for hair and you're going out tidy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u280	He has asked for the floor for two minutes, as Mr. Loverdos has been entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Our reaction to the position of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy is political, there is no sign of personnel. I'm returning the appreciation. We have achieved this 15 - sixteen months in controversy. But you have been disturbed by our arguments that are very specific about the way the Constitution has been implemented in the last two decades since the reproach against Papantoniou in 1999 and so far. Three Prime Ministers, Kostas Karamanlis, Antonis Samaras, who did not complete the procedure because there was no constitutional requirement to exercise a motion of censure, and Mr Tsipras chose the method of generalisation and the opposition of the government with the opposition. That's how he won the right thing that you've now denied it and I don't know why, I'm making a case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u282	Mr. Simitis did this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u283	Listen, you refused what was happening in practice. In other words, you refused guys what is being done here, that is, your opposition is being blamed in total, and your ministers are answering for what they have done, what they are doing and what they will do. Because that's the legality of reproach. Invoking 84 is the first elementary topic on the subject. It is not the conquest experience, not the theoretical experience, experience of theory, but it is what Parliament has lived through and to which Parliament has ended up, but you do not agree. You were most disturbed by the reminiscent of Kostas Karamanlis' phrase that he said about Mr. Aloscouf's Minister in 2005 "I feel the need to generalise the debate and turn the reproach into a proposal of confidence towards the government as a whole", which our Prime Minister did obviously not because he did not feel the need. And I close, Mr President, with something broader political. We did not choose the controversy with you about what happened in 2004-2009. Mr Stavros has chosen it and we are answering why the truth is on our side. You listed the debt as formed in relation to past debts. When we went as the Foreign Affairs Committee, now, to the Department of Defence to tell us how the country defends it, the Ministry made a record of armaments expenditure structured over time. I'm sorry to say what happened after 2004. I'm sorry to say that. I'm sorry to say the country stayed without any equipment programs. I am sorry to say that what is happening now and enables Mr Panayotopoulos to be proud is the result of our own policies. And if I were to tell you - and with this I am closing down, Mr President -...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u284	Yeah, but you also opened the whole thing. Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u285	I'm closing, Mr. President. If I told you what expenditure I found in 2004-2009 in the three Ministries, which I spent - in the three worst in terms of problems - the Ministers for Labour, Health and Education, you would not feel proud. Another loan to deal with the problems of the country and another of what we lived after your days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u288	Look, Mr Lebanese, it is about the proposals of distrust that in this House - not this period, but over time - have been solved. I mean, it's known there's been a semester. If the motion of censure is rejected, for six months there will be no further motion of censure. You all know that. The Scientific Committee of Parliament has said that if it has been either a vote of confidence or a motion of censure towards the House, you cannot then make a Minister. You know all this. What can we talk about again? Do you want to answer for the equipment now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u289	Just a minute, Mr President, and you will understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u290	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u291	Dear Mr Loverdos, we are not at all upset to hear what former Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis says. Instead, we are proud of the country's rule over its days and every time we hear its name. You obviously have a problem with him. We were, we are, and we will always be a fist united to face the great problems of the country, as we have done since 1974 and will continue to do today and whenever necessary. We're always on the right side of history. On the subject raised by the President. I can give you two of the many positions on the issue we discussed, the constitutional issue of the House. The one by Leandros Rakinzis, I imagine you appreciate him, the other by Peter Pararas, who, too, I imagine you value him and with them, we can continue this dialogue somewhere else that, as you said, has been judged. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u292	Good. It is clear that you will of course appreciate the former Prime Minister from your resignation and current Member of your resignation. Alas, I'm not talking about it. But let us move on, that is what I am interested in because they are still sixty-seven Members who have to speak. I see the Member who needs to speak is Mr Stavros Kalogannis - if I am not mistaken - from New Democracy. He's not here? Here it is! I'm sorry, Mr. Kalogannis, I was looking right and sitting down in the middle. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u293	Generally speaking, move, center and right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Kalogannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA against the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura. What is the framework within which the proposal was tabled? The country, like the whole planet, is faced with the second wave of COVID pandemic -19 while Turkish provocation is growing. The government faces this challenge with soundness and confidence, I would say, and pandemic in an effective way, by applying a package of EUR 24 billion. While we were discussing the draft law on private debt, aimed at regulating debts, SYRIZA tabled a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance. What is it doing with this draft law? Among other things, a preventive mechanism is introduced for the early warning of the citizen so that it does not lead to insolvency proceedings. The individual debt arrangements currently in existence in a single framework are incorporating, enabling the debtor, who is proven to be in financial difficulty, to start a new way. The possibility of restructuring debts, including the possibility of haircuts, is provided. The possibility of repayment is offered in up to two hundred forty instalments. There are permanent social policy provisions for borrowers belonging to socially sensitive groups. In conclusion, this proposal for a law provides a social protection policy for vulnerable households. However, the work of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, has been very rich in the last year and a half. As far as the legislative work of the Ministry of Finance is concerned, I mention that we have discussed and voted for twelve bills, many of which have a large majority. The first important regulation I would remind you that it was in July last year and concerned the reduction of HISPIA. Subsequently, the tax reform, arrangements for increasing the social dividend of 2019, the micro-financing framework, which should start to apply tax interventions to support the economy in the face of pandemic, arrangements for dealing with hurricane 'January', arrangements for preventing and suppressing money laundering. At the same time, during the last year and a half, significant structural changes have been carried out by the Ministry of Finance. For example, I mention the increase in instalments - debts from twelve to twenty-four and from twenty-four to forty-eight, the activation of the GFCF programme to support wounded borrowers with mortgage loans at first place, the implementation of the HARAKLIS project to reduce red loans. The measures taken were also important in budgetary policy. As for example, the reduction of HPAI by 22%, the drastic reduction in the tax rate for natural persons from 22% to 9% for low incomes, the suspension of VAT on new buildings and much more. The work of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, is recognised by both society and the markets. There is a great deal of investment interest in our country, which is evidenced in practice. Very indicative is the example of "MICROSOT" that is interested in operating a modern data center in the country. At European level we are now at the last stage of planning NextGeneration EU and the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 which, of course, are interconnected. The primary objective of these is to mitigate the economic and social impacts of the COVID pandemic -19 and the recovery of the economy, a subject which is particularly difficult, especially after the new data, which the Deputy Minister for Finance has just submitted, Mr. Skeylakis. The recovery plan will require significant public and private investments, with the priority of green growth and the digital transformation of the economy. For Greece, the funds are unprecedented in height and are a unique opportunity to exit the deep recession. For example, the draft state budget, which we recently discussed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, provides for a public investment programme of EUR 6.75 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, we are leaving behind yesterday. Our gaze is about in the future. The government is carefully planning the next steps, which will lead the country safely to the post-COVID era -19th and the recovery of the national economy. I am voting against the motion of censure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, so that you know how to plan today, as we know, we will go until 23.00 p.m. because there is a curfew. On the basis of how many parliamentary representatives want to speak and how many ministers want to speak yet, we estimate that we will reach the end of the tenth cycle. In this sense, Mr Mouszalas or similarly, if we hold time, of course, otherwise he will be Mr. Fotillas - somewhere - or Mr. Loading, etc. So tomorrow we'll start with Mr. Syragos. I imagine that from the circumstances you can see if you'll talk today or talk tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u297	What time do we start tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u298	9:00. Mr. Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today, October 24, about the proposal of distrust to a Minister of a Mitsotakis government. We have 24 October, that is, just three days ago we had the anniversary of the overthrow of a government of another Mitsotakis by Mr Samaras with the pretext of Macedonian. As much as you want to get away from the past, this is chasing you. And the irony of history! Two extreme opposing politicians, Mr Samaras and Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, have met through the most cynical party intrigues to win again on that same foreign policy issue, which the same people and the same fireplaces loaded on the back of the country two and a half decades ago. You have cultivated hatred and division, in order to confuse the country's greatest diplomatic success for decades, the Prespecies Agreement, and once you have become a government, relieved that the second biggest problem of Greek foreign policy - which you cause - is rampant, with your well-known coarse cynicism as genuine political deceitors you have left all thoughts of change or correction or veto and said that you will respect and respect the agreement. Thanks to the Prespecies Agreement, we now have a northern Macedonia that cooperates militaryly with our country instead of hosting Turkish aircraft. Imagine in today's crisis with Turkey standing on Turkish aircraft and Turkish drones a few minutes north of Thessaloniki. Did you think of that? Of course you did, but you still did not confess to your constituents. This is why you are still afraid of the great issue of the implementing agreements that you must bring to the House in the other long-term stability of your foreign policy, apart from the patriopathy, inertia, because the old partners of Samaras and Mitsotakis are unable to reach agreement. The country must pay again the inner-party intrigues and the ruthless tale of your voters. The long inertia and incomprehensibility was your driver for a whole year in dealing with Turkey. You were caught sleeping in Libya. Did that poor NSA commander ever tell you what Erdogan was planning with Mr. Sarah? You were caught in sleep for the designs of Erdogan in the Eastern Mediterranean and in the doctrine of the "Blue Country". You have neglected to activate diplomatic and political alliances, such as the Conference of the countries of the South. You did not care to mobilize friends and allies, to inform, to orchestrate capitals, to demand that you be present in discussions and conferences for our region, all the things that Tsipras, Kotzias and Katrugalos knew to do. Instead, you retrained Mrs. Merkel and only care for the feeding of your media and friends. You set up a show in Evros and called on your counterparts to show them how good you are to make Europe's fold dog, so that the refugees would not upset their electoral ties in Austria and Germany. And where you should react immediately, namely to Turkish aggression in the Eastern Mediterranean, where you should demand active support and sanctions, even a nominal reference to sanctions, that is where you do not understand. Wait again to solve the problem. And not only that, but Mr Chryssohoidis dares to come in here today and characterise our proposal for the extension of territorial waters to twelve miles in Crete and the south-eastern Mediterranean. And here we ask ourselves: does the Prime Minister cover the statement of the Minister for Civil Protection or disapprove it? Is it nationalism for our country to exercise its sovereign rights for Prime Minister Mitsotakis, as your Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, has said? If not, then he must be expelled. And if he does not fall off for this, which has characterized the twelve miles of nationalism, then he will be expelled for this reason. Because look at how life brings them. Mr. Chrysochoidis has a heavy karma inability to arrest Nazi killers. Because when I finished my first year of studies and the chrysayites led by Perandros Androsopoulos went to murder Dimitris Kosouris, he was once again Minister of Public Order Mr. Chrysochoidis, when he was unable to find Perandros, who was finally delivered himself. So the Prime Minister has two options today following Mr Chryssohoid's speech today: to dismiss him because he said nationalism twelve miles, or to disembark him, because Mr Papapas became a rabbit. The same fear of political cost paralyses you everywhere. You saw the refugees flooding the islands as soon as you were elected and looking at them abducted, because it was impossible for you to bear the costs of decongestion inland, where the blue mayors who had vained their election audiences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Inability, apathy, foot designs, spasmodic actions. First you watched them get together and then you thought about building a new structure in Lesvos to shut them down there. But the plans have been changed because you have been hunted by my fellow citizens. In the flames of Moria you saw 12 months burning inertia and far - right ideas. In Kara Tepee's mud, the foot designs drowned. The only thing that burns you in the refugee is the predators. You gave 5.5 million to "AKATOR", "TERNA" and Mytilene for Kara Tepe, 6.2 million to consultancy services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Burnou, the conclusion and close. It's all ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u301	In order not to catch the scandal of feeding a fictitious number of refugees, no matter how much you bury it, we will bring it back and bring it back again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u302	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u303	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's the last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u304	No, we're not done. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u305	I'll be out in ten seconds. All this would pass on to the mosquito, cemetery silence, your well-trained miniatures, and the bankers who gave you the legislative abortion ready. But you didn't get the cover. We strip your lies and society is being informed from here about the disgrace you want to pass. You want the Greek people to live on scenes of Rahoi and an outfit with MATs. You'll find a wall in front of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much. Mrs Alexopoulos has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece. Please hold the time, because at the end of the day the Member will go up tomorrow, he will say 'Hello' and he will have to come down. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, if anyone hadn't known what had happened in the country since 2015 until today, after the previous speech of the Chief of Police Response, he would have believed that the New Democracy came as another Armageddon to destroy the paradise that SYRIZA had made when it was government. Mr. Tsipras evidently pressed by the constant turmoil in his party and the collapse of his personal image in society - pointing out that in a recent survey no one passed it to the Prime Minister's fitness - he decided to resort once again to populism and division, his familiar dilemma. In fact, it has decided to do so in an extremely critical period for the country, where national issues and pandemic require cooperation from all political forces. Divisive tactics of the "we're the good ones and you bad guys" are obviously the wrong choice in 2020. The Civic Opposition, therefore, by tabling the motion of censure with the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, is simply forced to suffer the suffering of political humiliation for three days. We could use these days for much more serious issues. At least the restoration of the SYRIZA to a pan-Hellenic transmission is the profit for the country. What exactly do you say about the bill? You say that it is allegedly leading to the bankruptcy of natural persons, the abolition of the protection of first residence and the auctioning of citizens' property. Let's see what you did as a government: You abolished the protection of the first residence in February 2019 and subsequently established a six-month programme of alleged protection, in which a total of three hundred sixty-eight applications were lodged. Terrible protection! You have established electronic auctions in November 2017 and until June 2019 more than twenty-five thousand auctions. Some of them also tried to prevent your former partner, Mr. Lafazanis, and sent him to court after they were beaten by the MATs. But let us also consider the bankruptcy of natural persons, because that is where you have done the greatest crime, a crime against the next generations. With the framework that we received from you, if anyone had debts and was auctioned all of his property - and his first home! - but the money they gathered was not enough to repay their debt, then the citizen continued to owe him and his children. So we have reached the point where the legacy deportations are close to being far more than the pay. You were the government of the legacy of debts and not of the solidarity of the generations. From 'no house in the hands of a banker', you went to 'no house in the hands of a owner'. So you put forward a motion of censure against Mr Stakoura on the second opportunity bill. Eighty-six Members put your signature under this application. Really, did you mean it or got carried away? You want, in other words, to prevent a law from being passed, which, firstly, ensures that bankruptcy is prevented through early warning and treatment by means of an out-of-court settlement, secondly, lays down the protection of first residence as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households, and thirdly, provides for the complete deletion of all debts in cases of persons unable to repay their debts. In this case, we give a second chance by speedy procedures, by deleting debts after liquidation of the entire property. I suspect that perhaps some of you are ashamed, because I believe there are counted and serious people in your party - and that is why your seat was not filled with all these days - especially if I judge the ludicrous applause of some when your Chief of the Step of Parliament announced that a motion of distrust was tabled. All these days in here I feel like you've been doing chores. You're trying to defend a party line that you don't believe either. Why did Mr. Tsipras do this to you? He forced you into a political automation beyond every prediction. I therefore call on the Members of Parliament from all sides of the Chamber to vote against the motion of censure, to give a strong blow to populism, helping the government, in fact, to provide a second opportunity for our fellow citizens who so much need it. As for the Civic Opposition, I'll risk a prediction. Mr Tsipras' political residence will soon come to the hammer before we can finish with the suffering of the coronary. Glasses- nails he's done. Fellow civil engineer specializing in demolitions for the first time I meet. We are voting against and we are continuing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u308	Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor, followed by Mrs Pipili from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u309	There is not one case - not one! - at least in the last ten years, where a government against the fair claims of workers has not invoked the so-called strengths of the economy, budgetary stability, debt, cash and so on. This was and is the permanent candy, the permanent incubation of the New Democracy today and the SYRIZA earlier and the New Democracy and the PASOK even older, in order to convince, especially a people's world that sees things surfaceally, that these endurances are objective, are indisputable and that they promote, supposedly, the common good. That's what we hear again in pandemic conditions. So let's go and see these most resiliences of the economy. These tolerances are forbidden today to recruit doctors, nurses and teachers in order to protect the people from the pandemic. But, at the same time, these own tolerances allow Greece to spend 4.3 billion a year only behind the United States of America, for NATO's needs, unnecessarily - if not hostile - with the country's defence. Why? Because all governments are seeking and seeking - and this is what they continue to do - our country is the capital in the aggressive Natural plans. These endurances are forbidden to make the necessary infrastructure to protect the people from natural phenomena. However, they allow the various investment projects to be approved - even subsidized - by fast-track procedures. These resiliences of the economy are what they see as outrageous and unheard of in conditions, in fact, of an unprecedented pandemic, of ordering the private health sector, in order for there to be treatment units, of conducting diagnostic tests free of charge, of keeping the health protocols in critical areas, such as nursing homes. But, at the same time, these tolerances allow permanent requisition - i.e. the confiscation - of people's property and people's homes and many more. So, here we are not talking about the strengths of the economy, of a neutral economy, of a national economy, as you all call it, but about the strengths of a class economy, with two poles of uncompromising - on the one hand capital and on the other hand the working class and the poor populace - the interests of which cannot be reconciled as much as national unity as you claim and any social contracts as you devise. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, there is the radical difference in the JRC from the other parties and in general as regards the development path to be followed by the country, but especially with regard to the Bankruptcy Code. We, for example, raise the need to have a drastic debt haircut for the people's debts to the state and banks, which were, after all, two and three times from the backlog of the Greek people and from all the governments. What do you think? Payment cultures, financially necessary and developmental, the auctions are drained to the end of a fall for people's households and, ultimately, if not all of this is done, the confiscation of the entire property. And with this macabre institution of bankruptcy, you're doing exactly that. However, there is something else in relation to the bankruptcy code, which has not emerged, at least to the extent that it should be, and not by accident. What's that? The bill does not only regulate the debts of the people's households to the banks, but also debts to the tax and insurance funds. In all such cases, the bankruptcy of the natural person may be declared bankrupt. And this side of the bill does not show up, because it is quite simply this side that clearly reveals all of you's time-consuming responsibilities and the consuming of popular income, but also the over-taxation of popular strata. At the same time as people pay 95% of tax revenue, business groups only pay 5% with the responsibility of all governments, governments which have reduced twice in two years the tax on dividends of large shareholders - once it was with a SYRIZA government and the second with a New Democracy government - which have reduced the tax rates for capital and have imposed - listen, listen - to the voluntary contribution of shipowners. The people will lose their homes for a few thousand euros and the shipowners will pay a voluntary contribution and represent the national benefactors, because they are doing in a pandemic time and a sponsorship to make some IFs. That's the reality, then. The New Democracy Government puts the tombstone on. But the responsibilities of the previous governments cannot be forgotten. The electronic auctions cannot be forgotten to be made in mosquitoes. We cannot forget the peculiarities with Christmas amendments. And all this proves - to answer Mr Tsakalotos and end, Mr President - that the so-called neoliberals have been disproved that the liberalisation of the markets would bring social prosperity. In 1992, however, when Fukuyama's famous book “The end of history” was written, then the so-called newly repentant and social democrats, who said that this system can be humanized. The SYRIZA rule was the complete revelation of this lie. For all these reasons, we are voting in favour of the proposal, but we are making our own reproach to the government, to the other parties and above all to a system which cannot just protect property and people's housing, but not even human health and human life. But this reproach is not judged primarily in Parliament's Chamber, it is judged outside in the struggles of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u311	Please, Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u312	Mr Raguss as SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. After Mr Chrysochide's extremely arsonist position, very serious issues relating to government security policy have been raised in this Chamber, which we shall be talking about when it comes to making our speeches then. However, among what Chrysochoids said, there was also a reference which, for everyone who wants to maintain an elementary relationship with so-called patriotism, raises a major issue, a major issue for the government as a whole. As you know, the extension of the gynaecitis zone to twelve miles is an inalienable and unnegotiable right of our country, which expressly derives from International Law and the Law of the Sea. The position of the Minister of Government, Mr Mitsotakis, is that it is nationalism that extending our country's territorial waters to twelve miles is a position that runs counter to the core, the heart of the national strategy, national interests and the undetermined national laws. We therefore urgently, expressly and unequivocally before his responsibility, Mr Mitsotakis himself. Or he will withdraw by apologising Mr. Chrysochoidis for the misery he has committed, or Mr. Mitsotakis will cut him off. Otherwise, he and his government will take up this serious historical responsibility as a whole for this unprecedented historical problem towards our national laws, because if we get to this country to call nationalism the exercise of our inalienable rights, then I will not say, Mr President, that this is ultimately racistism and slavery. I'll say that this country doesn't have tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u315	Here, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u316	I do not think, I cannot imagine that anyone can question our country's right to extend hayalitis zone to twelve miles whenever the country finds it useful. There is no doubt about that. I'm surprised what you're saying. We have no reason to withdraw. You obviously didn't realize what was said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u317	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u318	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u319	So, what happens now? Wait a minute. The Deputy Prime Minister, I understood, closed it by criticizing the Minister. I don't know if you understood or didn't understand. That's what happened right now. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I say that the Vice-President of the Government has closed the matter by saying the government's position and not accepting what the Minister said, because both cannot be done. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Didn't I get it again? Let us repeat this, Mr Vice-President, because the Minister said something specific about which Mr Ragus has criticised. He didn't say in general. He didn't say the government had that position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u320	Well, I'll repeat it so we can all figure it out. There can be no doubt from any Greek and much more than the government, but also from all Greek citizens, that our country has the right at all times to extend the gyalitis zone to twelve miles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u321	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u322	Good. Secondly, I now think that the Minister, Mr Chrysochidis, has never said anything different and obviously there has been a misunderstanding about what he has said. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Ragus has the floor, but objectively, because these, to avoid whispers, etc., are written in the Minutes. Isn't that right? We can't say things. Mr. Vice President thinks. He wasn't here or he was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u325	To produce the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u326	Mr Pikrammenos, not just will the Minutes be presented, but one more thing. When you read the Minutes, you will feel - I am sure, I would like to believe - the need to ask for your personal apologies, because we have agreed to take you into the neck of Mr Chrysochoidis, because the phrase of Mr Chrysochoidis is very specific and explicit. The 12-mile nationalism is the phrase which it used to mention in our proposal, in our view. So, Mr President, if that is the view of the government, it is obviously, as you, in my opinion, also a express disapproval of Mr Chrysochide. Until you see the Minutes, Mr Pikrammenes, I advise you not to try and continue to defend Mr Chrysochide, but to ask him to apologize and to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u327	Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u328	Good, Mr. Ragosi. I think it's obvious in the House, and Mr. Bugas will take the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u329	Because he's got a vendetta with Mr. Chrysochide saying this in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Hatzidakis, as an officer of the Navy, please calm down. So the government's position on the twelve nautical miles was clear, Mr. Pikramomez. I think there is no debate on this. Mr Buga, you have the floor and we are closing with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u331	We'll close. Mr President, you have surprised me, because you, in fact, have attempted to interpret the Vice-President of the Government's parliamentary representative. This is not permitted from the seat. That's the first. Secondly, this should not be the case for SYRIZA to be in this confusion that was led by the motion of censure that his Chief has tabled unwittingly and unwittingly. This confusion forces him to spread to populism and demagogy. The right, ladies and gentlemen, of our country to extend territorial waters to twelve miles is inalienable. This has been formulated in all tons by the Prime Minister, by all the ministers, and the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group is drafted, as far as the right to extend is concerned. This was judged by Mr Chrysochoidis and this is what he saw. However, the request under the present circumstances made by the Head of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, and the parliamentary group, and now the parliamentary representative for extension under the present circumstances, is judged to do so. When the time comes and in the way we judge, we will extend our sovereign rights to twelve miles. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you cannot now come to demagogy and populistry to ask for the extension to twelve miles, just to be rescued.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u332	Is that nationalism? Is it nationalism?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u333	Please, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u334	You're not rescued with such cheap terraces.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u336	Not a minute, Mr President. It is a matter of days and hours that for the days of our national celebration of 28th, a moratorium had been announced by NATO specifically. It is very important and worthy of comment - I will do so tomorrow in my speech - that Turkey a few hours after withdrawing these. The country's in trouble. The country's in trouble. It is shameful that this will be done in Parliament's Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u337	Yes, sir. Well, to solve another issue now created with Mr. Buga. Mr Buga, as you know, the President-in-Office of the Parliament is not a wheelchairman. In other words, it does not say 'you take the floor, you take the floor'. It makes clarifications. He does not give his opinion on matters. So if you'd notice - and read it in the Minutes and apologize, if I'm wrong - I didn't say so. I said that he does not accept Mr Chrysochide's position, not that he deplores. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr Pikrammenos immediately asked for the floor and - I did not speak at all - he said, anyway, what he said. He said that this is the government's position, and I think that... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Listen to it. I think... I did not say 'I heard or was here or was a self-sacrificing witness'. Lawyer, if I'm not mistaken, you are. Let's close this thing, it's clean, and what Mr. Pikrame...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u338	That's enough, Mr. President. It's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u339	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u340	I accept what you said the second time, Mr Pikramene, I have no objections. I didn't say he said another word, but the second one. Don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u341	Your intervention caused this!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u342	Mrs. Pipilis has the floor, which she's looking forward to speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u343	Mr President,... (not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u344	Hello, Minister of Justice? Because you're shouting for no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u345	No, Mr. President! That's down! Stop it, it's down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u346	I stopped it. Mr. Ciara started yelling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u347	That's what I'm telling you to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u348	Oh, okay, then we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u349	What you're doing is not in the President's duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u350	Oh, did you see? It doesn't do that! Mr. Chiara, you won't tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, if I may, the President does not comment on the speeches. He doesn't make such comments and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u352	You won't tell me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u353	That's not your role. An issue is now being created, which you realise leads us somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u354	...how do I perform my duties? That can be done by the Conference of Presidents. Secondly, I made it clear that what I said is what I thought, if you want me to say so, that Mr Pikramomeme said. Once Mr. Pikramed said so again, I accepted nothing else. I said what Mr. Pikramenos said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u355	Nevertheless, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u356	You don't have the floor, Mr. Chiara. Mrs. Pipilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u357	Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting from something that only half an hour ago from the Step of the House said, in appreciating New Democracy by name, the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis. It was therefore a ridiculous post, from what we understood, on Facebook and on the Internet - which we in the New Democracy and other parties in particular are a daily target, and we have never started crying and asking the government to make a statement against a crippled, dangerous, vulgar model - and indeed because they presented Mr. Voutsi as allegedly with Mr. Poppa, who would have seen it, would have understood that this was a chaotic malignancy. But why did it bother me that Mr. Voutsis said so? Because just last week SYRIZA MEP, Mr Barkas, on Facebook, posted a slandering, stupid picture - from the winter where there was no COVID and measures - of the Prime Minister who was talking to someone on a tour without both wearing a mask. Nor were we rebellious, nor did we denounce, nor did we ask the President of SYRIZA to "do it." But when the former Prime Minister, who was an institution, Mr Papademos, was almost murdered by terrorists, nor did we have a formal complaint from the SYRIZA government, nor did anyone dare to convict the SYRIZA parliamentarian and the main President of SYRIZA did not even go to see him in the hospital. So don't talk to us about institutions. And the last one. He ironically said that here the New Democracy had charisma with the Golden Dawn. He probably forgets that with his own Presidency, he was given pleasure and photographed jointly by extreme-right-governing, golden-girl criminals who are now in prison with SYRIZA MPs. So I have to start it like this, while others I had prepared. So let's go. I apologise, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for ruining you this weekend by tearing down one of your arguments against Minister Stakoura. In SYRIZA's hopeless effort to raise a level, as Mr Tsakalotos would say, by closing to the European Left, Mrs Ahtsioglou recalled her anguish about the middle class! Who? Mrs Ahtsoglou, a partner of Syrian ideology, who has ruled for four and a half years and has done everything possible to purify the middle class. Who? Mr. Tsakalotos, who defended the fierce overtaxation of the middle class along with the then Deputy Minister, George Huliarakis, who, from this very point of view, stated that overtaxation of the middle class is a conscious choice of the government. I listen very carefully to you that you have forgotten the ideology from the time of the square of the indignant for your announcement of total seismicism, for the "I don't pay", for the "No house in the hands of a banker", for the ideology of "I grant plots, I grant houses, I don't give a toll, I dismantle ENPI". From today's conversation and our arguments you have been demolished this weekend from the staircase, which your former partner Panagiotis Lafazanis failed to tear you down. That poor man, loyal to the ideology of the square of indignant and his own personal, went up the ladder to break into notaries that by law in May 2017 you had imposed electronic auctions to become an electronic one, and again by law on 13-2-2019-always with your companions ANEL - you abolished the protection of the first home. So you say that we support the capital. According to official evidence, in the last one and a half months - listen, Minister, you will know - five auctions were made, where each property has a value of more than one million, eighteen auctions for real estate of five hundred thousand to one million, forty-seven house auctions for each real estate of three hundred to five hundred thousand. And because I cannot hear SYRIZA MPs say from the Stepping of the House that this private bankruptcy bill is a global phenomenon, I can tell them that it is politically and encyclopedicly illuminated. No one has ever given a solution to the daily tragedy of individuals in the past. We in the bill give the solution for a second chance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, I don't want to abuse time. I'm going over what I had written, but you understand. And I will only make one appeal: Minister, I ask you two favors. One favor has to do with this system to save people, the property and what they inherit their desperate children. I would ask you to force the banks to put a back on them, to at least reduce the high interest rates, so that the whole thing can be less. You know what I mean. And one last thing: Minister, please think very much about rewarding the legitimate borrowers, who are against millions consistent with struggle, depriving me, because we believe in the rule of law. These two favors I want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much. Ms. Anagnostopoulos from SYRIZA and immediately after Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece. I say again - because some Members have now come to the Chamber - today we will go until Mr. Chartomas, that is until 23.00, which means that those who are in the eleventh cycle - the eleventh cycle starts from Mr. Syrigos and go by saying - will speak tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday we have heard almost all the government MPs, but also the ministers that SYRIZA is trying to break the stiff front and unity in a time of multiple crises, health, economic and national. In other words, for the New Democracy only it expresses unity. It is the national force in which no one should resist. Having another view, exercising one's democratic, constitutional right, such as the motion of censure, that is what we heard a Member of the New Democracy say that it is also considered to be nationally harmful. Module and agitated front are made in one way only when one has an ally of society. If it does not, unless it gives society weapons to feel this unity, there is no falsification, no lies or distortions. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Why have we chosen to make a motion of censure, to table a motion of censure in this bill? Because in our view it is the culmination of a policy and an ideological imposition which has been carried out for fifteen months in all ways. And where is this policy and ideological imposition? For the first time - for the first time, I insist - that in the history of this state we have such violent poverty among many peoples! - the popular classes and we have something else even worse. We have a classification of society that refers to prostitution among poor and rich. At a time when a protection net had to be built - and this government had the tools and a pillow had European facilities it had, everything had a regulated debt - instead of the government building a protection net, what does it do? What a Member of Parliament said or Mr Hatzidakis said: 'This was always our programme'. In other words, bankruptcy of natural persons. We are now surpassing the business risk and entering a new concept - very old, but - human risk, with everything that means human beings in modernity with all its rights. That is the big problem, so we have tabled a motion of censure. And that's what you haven't answered a word about. But I call on the Members of the New Democracy to tell me, taking a time, after a few months, after a few years, will they be proud of this bill? Stimulation of poverty, categorisation, classification, destruction, violent restructuring of the Greek society, economic and social fabric, with small and medium-sized enterprises being lost in this way. When did this happen? What time? Let's go back to history a little bit to see where you're trying. And you want on this basis, in the name, using the crises as an opportunity for us to consent, the Civic Opposition and the rest of the Opposition. You don't do these things, and you know that very well and we did very well. This bill condenses a course, therefore, fifteen months. What's that course? First, intimidation. He came here and spoke to Mr. Chrysochoidis. We have seen an attempt to intimidate citizens from the beginning of his service. And it's not what SYRIZA says, it's too many people. That's what he's tried to do. That's what happened with the fourteen-year-olds, that's all. And instead of taking it here and telling us that in the pandemic, the government and his ministry are protecting the world by going out and making checks, when did he call the gene of the known family to get Mr. Mitsotakis to pull his ear a little, why in the media is this mess done? When did the Prime Minister draw his ear to the excellent Minister of Education when, in the midst of a pandemic, did he raise the number of students in classes? When did she draw her ear to several ministers, leaving society unarmed and shaking her finger? He came here among everyone else, because this bill touches society, all areas, all ministries. I heard last night from this Step of the House, Mrs. Mendoni. The irony of luck! A few hours ago Ms. Mendonis had sent letters from the theatrical producers who are not SYRIZA and told her not much or much what we are saying, where small and medium-sized enterprises go. The first time in this country is such a violent break in cultural continuity and with cultural heritage, as well as with modern culture. Thessaloniki, Mycenes, Olympia, Salamina will have to say about this ministry, about the artists who came out and got back on the road. I will end with one point, with the great national issues. Has Mr Lebanese accused us of having barons in this party and - how else did he say so? Because we don't even know those things in our party - and dolphins. Find them in your party, which you have made a mockery of the country, have the implementing agreements with northern Macedonia and do not bring them in because you have a problem and you are moving your problem into the country. What you consider to be a national power, and you want to impose it, extinguishing the past and going to a supreme past, pay attention to it! I'm not going into the conflict for the twelve nautical miles. I really respect what Mr. Loverdos said at these moments not to have such conversations. However, I will say one thing: it is not possible for these serious issues to be overhauled, your lack of strategy, your disagreements within you, to be loaded on the backs of all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u360	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u361	If you do not agree with the twelve nautical miles, do the Council of Political Heads and say that it is opportune at the moment or anything like that. If you think that the law of Maniotis does not apply to the continental shelf, make it the Council of Political Heads. Don't be dissatisfied at all times, don't lie to me. When you start talking, when you get it back, when you do. Don't lie to me all the time. And one last sentence. We are making a motion of censure in the name of democracy because we have broken up not us, but the whole society that can never be informed. We are making a motion of censure in the name of the rights of society, making a motion of censure in the name of all these young people who, after this bankruptcy code, have no future in this country, and you applaud that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, but if everyone talks two minutes more than what we should not finish at 23.00 and we will not finish tomorrow. I would ask that the time be respected. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA's proposal of distrust has multiple targets: Firstly, to sum up the cause of the serious problems faced by people's strata and one of these problems is the overcompensation of people's households. Secondly, to cover up SYRIZA's consortium with New Democracy and PASOK's strategic choices. And thirdly, to manipulate and encapsulate popular discontent. The JRC is voting against the current government's government policy to the face of the Finance Minister, but it is the continuation of the policies of the previous governments. Once again, in this House, we will also vote against the current and previous governments and their policies. We call on the working class, the self-employed, the professionals, the farmers, the young and the women of the people's barracks to go through the counter-attack and to strengthen their social alliance by organising the struggle against the real rival who are not their own monopolies and interests, their state, the transnational capitalist union, the European Union, but also the political parties that serve and banish the barbaric capitalist system. Let us now come to the reason why this motion of censure has emerged. Excessive public households, private due-to-debt management. How much is this private due date? 233 billion. And that's not just in the banks, because some people are targeting the banks. The EUR 90.5 billion is red loans to the banks, while 105.3 billion owes tax due and 37 billion to the insurance funds. And here comes the question: what is the cause of this overcompensation? Is that bad the root? Is the mindless attitude atom? Is he the god who hates us? We call it clear. The reasons are very specific. During the period of the thick cows for the capitalist system, for capital, the populaces, workers, professionals, farmers could not meet their needs either through their incomes, whether they were housing needs, or the needs they needed for their professional activity or for the cultivation of their farm lots, and thus resorted to borrowing. Of course, there was also a great deal of pressure from the banks for a period of time because they wanted to find a way out of overcompensated funds in their desperate attempts to prevent the crisis from erupting immediately. Any suspension of the crisis event not only prevented it, but led it to manifest itself with even greater vigour and acidity, bringing global features with the crisis of 2008-2009. The capitalist crisis was the cause, not the 'capitalism' or the banking, but you're afraid to mention it. This led to the most severe attack by all governments, and by the Greek, through the memoranda of the rights of the working class and the people's classes, it led to hunger wages and poverty pensions, it turned such a framework into a labour market in order to turn the worker into a consumable part for industrialists and entrepreneurs, too cheap for capitalist recovery to be able to move forward. The worsening position of the people's strata from this attack has become even worse through the 'tax raid' unleashed by all governments for fiscal consolidation. To do what? In order to create the necessary financial space to support business activity, entrepreneurship, but also to finance expenditure on NATO -4 billion a year - the armaments programmes and the other needs of business groups. Through this "taxattack" came the pillow of what SYRIZA is proud of, of EUR 37 billion. These are the bloody surpluses of the world that SYRIZA now wants to give to business groups. The result is revealing. I shall mention two points: firstly, the tax debts, those owed to up to EUR 5 000, and that is three million forty-nine thousand VAT, that is, 87.3% of those owed to taxes owe EUR 2.4 billion, that is, it only owes 2.8%. In other words, 87% of those in charge of taxation owes only 2% of the contributions made over time and up to 5,000. Are these strategic malpractices? Or it is the popular strata that cannot cope with the 'tax raid' imposed on them by all the governments. Let's see for the insurance funds. About 2 million people owed to the insurance funds, 80% of those owed up to 15,000 -- are they also strategic poor payers? - 80%, therefore, owes up to 15,000 and accounts for only 15% of all outstanding debts to the insurance funds. So here's who the strategic bad payers are. It seems from all this that the capitalist system is responsible for this situation, of course, with its crises, that is the attack they have taken to shield business groups, that is the policies followed by all governments and not the individual responsibility of everyone who was careless and did not see what they should do. Today you come and tell them that you led them into this situation, "To burn you, Giannis, to grind you oil." Of course, will things be better tomorrow or the next time? Because today there are these conditions of the new capitalist crisis at international level that pandemic and not the cause, because the character remains the character of the capitalist crisis. Through these measures taken by the government, it comes to mark a new attack on what remains of employment rights. You're fighting any rest of the people's rights there is. You sacrifice the needs of the working class and the populaces on the altar of recovery, the profitability of the monopolies. You have overall secured the situation on the labour market and you can be sure that you are sowing winds, but you will reap storms from the labour union movement. On the other hand, do you come and say that you shield society from pandemic with individual responsibility? Here you have left the public health system intact, not just you and the previous governments. Truly, what governments were those that closed down in hospitals for infectious diseases? The New Democracy - PASOK coexistence, because the excuse at the time was that there are no pandemics. Who shut down the Thoracic Hospital in Patras? SYRIZA - ANEL co-government. And it was a specialist hospital in lung diseases. So here's how many more weapons there could be. What are you doing today? You put individual responsibility as a pretext to cover immunity in the workplaces, which have been transformed into a pandemic-proliferation nucleus, to cover up the huge crowd that, on your own responsibility, exists in public transport and in schools. However, the bill, which has been made to put the motion of censure, is not lightning in hunger. It is not, as Mr Skourletis said yesterday, a reversal of the data we have had, but the continuation and completion of the data available, the completion of the puzzle image. Starting with the Katseli Act, which provided partial protection under conditions, the sweater was plunged down gradually. We proceeded to electronic auctions. In order to facilitate electronic auctions, the SYRIZA government has turned their obstruction into a peculiar offence and sent the MATs to prevent protesters from blocking them. And today you're fighting about who's more blood-painted. From this point of view, we are clearly saying that there may be many proposals at the table on how to deal with the debts due to the people's households, the professionals, the self-employed, but there are only two logical, two lines that conflict. One line, which you all accept is: to manage the red loans to redeem and capitalise the banks and strengthen the financial system; to ensure budgetary discipline by paying the debts to taxi and to insurance funds so that the urban state can strengthen its position as a collective capitalist. These will be at the expense of the highly indebted people's strata. That is the only way they can be done, and that is the proposals. The other is the JRC's proposal, which says that it must be relieved of overcompensation. And how's that gonna happen? With the haircut across both banks and insurance funds and tax. We have tabled a specific proposal for a law, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. So to pay the banks and pay their state too. In the proposal put forward by the government we have the auctions accelerated to liquidate the assets of those in debt or to have an out-of-court settlement, as the government says. What's that supposed to mean? Two hundred forty doses. For twenty years, that is, they'll be hostages. Today a newspaper at random referred to how many debt arrangements exist. There are fifteen of them. Two hundred forty doses for the extrajudicial settlement, one hundred and twenty instalments for the dues, one hundred and twenty instalments for the debts to the insurance funds, another hundred and twenty instalments, forty-eight fixed instalments. He'll die to count the doses at the end! You turn him into a slave of the banks and their state. In this respect, then, we are clean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also use my dentistry. And as for vulnerable households, who have an income of up to 7 thousand euros, what do you tell them? That they're going to be tenants in their house. They will pay for twelve years rent and after twelve years - there is ridicule - they can buy it! With what? How are they going to buy it? Are you kidding? Where's the money coming from? Unless they catch the Joker! Just like that! How will they save seven grand a year? Can you save yourself to buy a house when you've been erased everything you've given to serve the loan and everything you give for rent? And much more mocking and mocking is what you say about the second chance. Think: A farmer who will lose his fields will lose his tractor and machines what second chance will he then have to grow again? What's he gonna grow? The most - much to be a land worker. This is the second chance you give him? But anonymous capital funds have multiple opportunities, not just second opportunities. They have the possibility of redefining loans, having the possibility of haircuts being transferred, made subsidiaries, sold and purchased, and a number of other possibilities that I do not have the time to mention. This is the JRC's proposal for a law which we did not submit just now, in July, we submitted to the previous government. The SYRIZA government mocked her then, as the New Democracy, which was an official opposition, as PASOK humiliated her. Even the SYRIZA's so sensitive government has not even accepted the proposal made by many municipalities in the country to allow municipal councils to write off debts of up to EUR 500. Listen, the crime of terrible people who are impoverished! You rejected it as government. One will say: What you are saying is well, but there is also the proposal of Mera25 for the "PESH" who is confronted with the "HERAKLE" now! Do you understand what kind of seriousness we're talking about? Anyway, let's stay here. So what does the proposal from Merra25 say about red loans? That these will be transferred to public bad bank. In other words, the state will securitise these loans, put money into the banks and get the red loans. A better proposal for the banks does not exist from it. A more centralised proposal does not exist. And they will either pay as debtd households or pay as taxpayers for the resolution of the banks. We need bankers to have a table with Mr. Varoufakis, we have an opinion. In this respect it is confirmed that there are two policies. You can't step on two boats. Either you're with the monopolies, banks and capitalism or you're with the people and socialism. Why are you doing this now? It's a simple reason. In the proposal that you bring to the resolution of business you convert the ability of the manager to resolve all contracts automatically in a decisive manner. As soon as the bankruptcy is filed, all contracts shall be terminated without compensation. What does that mean? You want business for the new owners not to have the burdens of the labour movement and its conquests. So by this law you want to gather the land, collect real estate, as well as economic activity in less and less hands. And since, of course, this is not enough, you are also shielding yourself with the repressive mechanisms, but also with the legislative framework. SYRIZA brought American institutions to justice, such as, for example, criminal conciliation, criminal negotiation and a number of other such beautiful Americans, who basically put the poor to the same fate as the rich to negotiate. And who's gonna win? The rich man will win. Clean. SYRIZA abolished the overprivileged privileges of workers during forced execution in auctions and bankruptcy. Mr. Justice Minister is here. I would remind you that on an initiative that you had taken, we had then discussed the JRC's amendment - which we tabled again - and you said that you would take the initiative to bring it. On Monday you have the opportunity to place yourself and say whether you accept the JRC's proposal or bring your own proposal to restore the workers' over-benefit in enforcement. However, the most essential thing about where this is going is what the Pissaridis report contains. What's he saying? He says justice - listen to what he says! - from an uncertainty factor should be converted into a confidence factor for investments. Justice, that is, turns into a tool for business groups and monopolies. This is the revelation of the dictatorship of capital. Let's be clean. There's no other excuse. And, of course, because 'fresh coups have the baker', we will not refer to what SYRIZA has done as a government, because he has been forced. Although it celebrates festivities for 37 billion. Contrasts are those! We'll say the latest, because he's talking about their progressive alliances and their necessity. So let's see how these are to be built. When was SYRIZA celebrating the Recovery Fund and promoting European integration? Or when Mr Tsakalotos came to us the other day when the bill was being discussed, saying "we can help businesses to restructure themselves in a fairer and more developmental way"? But, is it ever possible to ask for the opponent of the working class to be claimed? The European Union is the opponent of the working class of all peoples. Business is an opponent of the working class. Isn't that what class society's structure says, that there are conflicting classes? But it shows in American and British colleges these are old, sour grapes! So it is a challenge to speak now that you are opposition to inequality and, on the other hand, to subjugate the working class into the interests of business groups, in its main opponent, to undermine and fight class struggle as the main lever of change and overthrow society and say in the working class "see, support as a government and I will solve your problems". Like you solved before?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u364	Please, you're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u365	From this point of view, Mr President - and I am ending with this - a one-way for the people, for the working class, if they want to see better days, that is to say, to claim measures that improve their position, it is not to support and trust any bourgeois government regardless of aggressive determination, but rather to clash with the real causes that undermine the fulfilment of their needs, conflict and overthrow the correlations of power, in order to bring about more overall overturns at social level. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u366	Thank you too, Mr. Karathanasopou. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs now has the floor, Mr Brutsi. Members will then speak, Mr Athanasios Kavadas, from New Democracy and Mrs Harula Kafantaris from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, I will speak from here. I will not come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u368	Because we know that you will be brief, Mr Brutsi, of course, speak from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an indiscriminate right of the SYRIZA, the Officer of Police to choose the time, the subject, the way to take advantage of this supreme parliamentary opportunity to put forward a motion of censure. But so much inalienable right is that the government, gentlemen of SYRIZA, should be placed for all of this, both for the way and for the time and for the substance of your proposal. I start by saying that by following the procedures of Parliament yesterday and today, which, as I predict, will be completed tomorrow, the same provision says that the history of the future will judge you very strictly for this choice. And he will judge you strictly because he is evolving into your self-determination, in a political fiasco, which now seems to have made it clear to you for communication reasons, to balance your internal issues and to escape the responsibilities of the past that are burdening you and shading you all this time. So let's start to see why you're doing this political operation against the government and specifically against Christos Stakoura. The time you selected was the most appropriate? All the Greek people are currently fighting the problem with our neighbours, with Turkey. While the Armed Forces are unfolded and developed in the Aegean Sea, do we show what we really had to show as a Parliament, as a political system, that we are united? What's going on outwards? That they are divided there and the time we have the highest risk to us with Turkey is making a motion of censure against the government. It shows an internal instability rather than a national unity as it should be. The second issue is the issue you have chosen. What theme did you choose, gentlemen of SYRIZA? A law entitled ‘regulatory of debts, second chance’ or as it is commonly called ‘Bank Code’. Let's see what this is all about. Because we have to say things with their name and as they are. Because I was also in 2012-2014 in the same position as the Minister, I have intense experiences and performances in my mind from the squares of the "indignant", from the "I don't pay" and the exhortations to the citizens not to pay their duties, I have in my mind the "no house in the hands of a banker", I have very engraved experiences in my memory, which you said "with a law and an article we will abolish what is there and restore wealth and prosperity in the place". That was intense, but we are going through this. These were judged, evaluated and brought to you by the Greek people where they put you. But let's see what you're talking about today. What's a bankruptcy code? Is it just legislative intervention? No, it's a big reform. And if we want as a political system to get together, I have recorded about this great problem, a passionateness of decades that our country, the laws with which the political system has attempted - from PASOK and New Democracy and SYRIZA after - to resolve it. The question is - let someone answer, I accept well - the following: is there a problem or is there a problem? Of course there is. Is the problem solved? No, it's not solved. Can he be crawling for many years? No, he can't be drawn. See, 11 legislative interventions to solve the problem: Law 3869 of 2010, Law 4152 of 2013, Law 4224 of 2013, Law 4307 of 2014, Law 4321 of 2015, Law 4354 of 2015, Law 4389 of 2016, Law 4588 of 2017, Law 4669 of 2017, Law 4605 of 2019, Law 4611 of 2019. What did the political system attempt to do? To deal with it. And he didn't make it. And today, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the courage, the courage to bring this legislative initiative, this reform and to solve for ever and ever a problem that tormented the Greek people and the Greek economy! And that's what we do. That's what we do, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Because this legislative initiative actually does two very important things: firstly, it solves the problem of decades ago and I described it before, and secondly, it gives the second chance, through its social model, to some people who would not have a second chance of getting back on their feet, both individually and with their families. And it is highly hypocritical for you to bring this time into this bill, in which you have opened what you are today criticizing our Government, a motion of censure to Christos Stakoura. But you made another mistake. You have personalized a central government policy. You know, we in the New Democracy have strong ties between us, not only human, political. We have a relationship between ourselves because we have been forged within a worthy ecosystem that keeps the culmination and the people of these years and high and top priority in Greek society. That's why we're here again. So this ecosystem puts each other next door. We're all next to Christos Stakoura, we're all a fist! Because Christos Stakoras has not only brought this legislative initiative. With Christos Staikouras, the Ministry of Finance as a whole, the Ministry of Development, with the Prime Minister, and all the government throughout the pandemic - which I hear again on the part of SYRIZA talking about unemployment - that unemployment has increased, that recession has increased, as if there is no pandemic problem - we are all fighting together in the morning until night in order to deal with these unprecedented phenomena with the effects on health and the economy. Appreciate us the way we practice politics? Appreciate us. But in an environment that is unprecedented, unprecedented, global to say that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has brought these things from joke to tragic. Because this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, gentlemen of SYRIZA, all this time, some ministries and all of the government fought for the front line, because it was their duty, that was their debt and we kept society standing, we kept jobs, we kept the insurance system and businesses at the same time. We have given, given, and will end up under this very difficult environment a battle. At our focus, man and country. And we will do everything we can to the end to keep them all up and get together and winners - because this time is coming - from this crisis. And so far the Greek people have welcomed our efforts positively. That's undeniable. I have here a number of dozens of interventions: suspensions of contracts of employment, support for unemployed, support for long-term unemployed, policies of 100 000 jobs, seven specific programmes of the OAED with special support, support for the insurance funds from the Ministry of Finance, tens of billions of euros for the people of work, for the maintenance of jobs. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, I think you made a disastrous mistake. You've been self-sufficient in an inner vortex that you have and trying to escape, you've made the mistake of making a motion of censure to the government through Christos Stakoura. We are all here together in the face of society, against the Greek people, and we are sure that at the end this government with its policies will vindicate the entire Greek people and we will all win. The only losers will be you with today's choice. We're next to Christos Stakoura. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Minister. Outside the process, for the record to say about the laws you mentioned, no one effectively protects borrowers against banks. And it comes from court practice. None of them effectively protected borrowers or some of them poorly. That's another matter, I don't really want to get into it. Mr. Cavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek fleet has been in a position to fight in the Aegean Sea for months against Turkish. Her provocation across the side is exacerbated. The Greek Government daily fights international organizations for a peaceful but decisive solution to the basis of international law against Turkish expansion. Inside the pandemic threatens to kneel the economy and society. The recession that has hit Europe as a whole is also a fatal point for our country, but not without hope. Hope comes from predictions for growth at least around 5%, a growth that does not come magically, but thanks to the economic policy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. A development economic policy with an emphasis on liquidity and investment, an economic policy that reduces taxation, strengthens entrepreneurship, supports the labour market. So just as the government along with Greek society is fighting on two critical fronts, SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras have chosen to get out of political oblivion and draw attention away from their internal problems. I do not want to comment on what kind of patriotism this choice of tabling a motion of distrust in a critical turning point in modern Greek history. I would like to put into the essence of what the motion of censure stands against the Minister of Finance of the Government Christos Stakoura, the head of a ministry that has held the economy and society upright. SYRIZA but he was saying in the bars as opposition and more he did, being in the chair, as government. From the election "I don't pay" that led to the increase of red loans by 50% in 2015, because the world heard you and stopped paying, we came to confess that Mr. Tsakalotos had a classic over-taxation of the middle class. I shall submit, Mr President, this and other documents at the end of my speech, due to a limited period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2017 SYRIZA was supposed to revolutionise the institution of the extrajudicial compromise. Four hundred thousand debtors told us then the Minister of Development will benefit. I'll testify to that, too. But what really happened? By July 2019, seven thousand three hundred applications had been made and, finally, only two thousand two hundred debtors adjusted their debts, that is, a tragic failure. The extrajudicial compromise on SYRIZA remained a bureaucratic process, with dozens of stages that took time and money. Today the Government of New Democracy automates the extrajudicial compromise through the special platform, extends it on terms and to informed debtors it gives two hundred forty instalments, that is, twenty years for repayment, guaranteeing the property and income of debtors. In 2017, the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotos said that electronic auctions needed to have good banks. I'll testify to this in the Minutes. So the "no house in the hands of a banker" that Alexis Tsipras repeated from Rhodes in 2015 and which brought the election victory to SYRIZA was forgotten as soon as he was at the wheel of governance. I shall also present Mr Tsipras' speech. When the bankers ceased to be the class enemy and became partners in the development of SYRIZA's economic and social policy, the new seismicism declared by Alexis Tsipras in PITH even in September 2014 was forgotten. I will also present this speech. In February 2019, the final tomb tomb for the law of Katseli and the horizontal protection of the first house was introduced, with Law 4592 giving six months to minimum beneficiaries to save their homes. So few that by the end of the period only a thousand sixty eight debtors had applied for membership. Twenty-five thousand six hundred seventy-seven two electronic auctions were conducted in rule SYRIZA. These were, ladies and gentlemen, the social sensitivity of those who were in the government. And not only that, but with the policy of overtaxation over the past few years, you have led to an increase in tax debts at EUR 104 billion. With the increase in insurance contributions you have led to the increase in the debts to the insurance funds from EUR 13.7 billion, when you took over, at EUR 35.4 billion in February 2019. And now that you're in your natural position, in the opposition, the pain for the first residence and the small and medium-sized ones has taken you back. And you chose to benefit from a supreme parliamentary democratic process invoking raw lies. Because raw lies are that the Minister for Finance did not support and does not support the employees, the professionals and the households. If, at the moment, there is provision for recovery in 2021 from the latitude of the epidemic, it is because this Minister took early and crucial measures, but also because they have been firmly rooted in the fourteen bills illustrating the entire development policy of this government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. You've increased taxes, we're reducing taxes. And if at the moment there is a hope to regulate private debt and to recover households and businesses, if there is hope to protect the first home, it is because once this farce of the motion of censure is finished, the House will vote for a bill which is characterised by the same boldness, social sensitivity and the same realism as its rapporteur and the main expressor of the government's economic policy, the Minister of Finance. I am therefore voting against the motion of censure and I support the Minister of Finance Christos Stakoura. And I put forward all the five documents to which I referred before, in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u372	Thank you too, Mr. Kavada. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor, and then the Minister for Justice, Mr Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen of the government, is it true that you are in panic and great embarrassment and that why? It seems, first of all, from the phrases, from the expressions, any arguments which have been put forward in the Chamber for two days, many of which have been going back to us in the past. Only in the era of the Freedom Venizelos have you not arrived! Resuspend faces, repeat the same, spread and place in a row of fast news, precisely because you have no argument. And why? That is what I think is the most serious and perhaps your objective: because you are afraid. And why are you afraid? Fear that your anti-language, anti-social, neoliberal policy is really uncovered. And with this bill you're trying with a golden wrapping about a second chance that the Greek people don't understand what's really going on. The fragmentation of many positions, I would say, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is the mask of fear, which I analysed just before. You thought that, as with a number of other issues, using pandemic, which is a reality, a very serious global issue that we are facing in uncharted waters really, as you used the issues of insurance, labour, with the changes you have made, your policies for small and medium-sized enterprises, subjection - I would say - of science in your communication policy - against corporation - that this is how you will go through the new Banking Code. But, gentlemen of the government, you thought everyone's property would be in the shower. But for this reason, we have also tabled the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, precisely to discuss three days in this Chamber, to inform the Greek people of what is happening. And that's very serious. It should therefore be noted that, with the use of the pandemic we are experiencing, it is likely that the property and the private, of course, of the businesses will be effectively liquidated. And that is a very serious matter. The world does not know about it, because the bloomed media refer to the issue of the law and the motion of censure, which is a top parliamentary procedure, third, fourth, last. We want to uncover this hypocrisy, to show the world what your policy really is. Because you know that for small and medium-sized enterprises, which you election against the coroner, are a definitive blow, because the indebted small and medium-sized enterprises, according to the GATT figures, are around 81%. This bill, this new bankruptcy code, is really not a second chance, but it is an opportunity to go bankrupt, as their trade unions have mentioned. Don't listen to SYRIZA. Listen to the GSE, listen to the U.S., consumer associations, the Athens Chamber of Professionals, which characterised the "flooring" bill for small and medium-sized enterprises. Think about your responsibility. But how do you underestimate the Greek people and how degrading and hypocritical is the title of the bill? "Second chance"! Second chance in bankruptcy for the many small and medium-sized and private individuals, second chance that you are currently trying to gold the pill. But second chance, the bill, but for who? Second opportunity for banks, first of all, which, with the money of the Greek people, have been recapitalised three times and instead of providing liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are over 95% of our country's businesses, based on European data, are looking at how and how to benefit, to end up with red loans. Normally, the term "The Death of the Trader" should also exist in the title. But because we are not talking about theatre, but about a very tough reality, we really have to say: small and medium-sized entrepreneurship has lifted the weight of the crisis ten years, is now being tested with the pandemic and the policy being implemented, because you did not support them forward, as SYRIZA proposed - Progressive Alliance. Many small and medium-sized enterprises have closed down and others are ready to close now with your policies. With this bankruptcy code, if it stands, if it votes tomorrow night, they'll really get a definitive hit. It is also no coincidence that perhaps - and that seems to be the case with this bill - you want to get over with the small and medium-sized ones, which your top ministers described as "zombies". Do you not want small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, gentlemen of the government? I'm coming from now on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u374	Wait a minute, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u375	Individuals have often been told that they will be rented in their own home. They're being removed from ownership. This is the important thing and don’t talk about housing protection and now, after ten to twelve years, take their home back without being counted on giving these years. But I'm closing up with this. You want a new model of private dwelling, a new model rather European, and from the owner-occupation to go to the health of individual dwellings, rental homes, which will be managed by large companies. I'm hanging up. On SYRIZA the first home of the people was not auctioned by banks. I stress that. With the bill you're coming with now, if voted on, private property and first residence will prevail. Finally, government gentlemen, the left didn't take the homes of the world. But you, the right, are in danger of divesting them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u376	The Minister of Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u377	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a motion of censure against a minister, against the government, has been heard by other colleagues too - it is indeed an important parliamentary moment for her. And indeed, it is one of the weapons that the Opposition has at its disposal, based on the possibilities offered to it by the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, in order to create a debate and, of course, from there on, to raise issues or issues that should at least be able to support them and be able to show them. But where are we really in relation to today's debate? I am truly impressed by the fact that all the time - since the debate on the Banking Code - you know that it is your own pending - debate with the institutions - you have not taken any opposite view and you have not expressed any opinion at all, while you knew that there was a general consultation, there was a debate which, to a very large extent, seemed to end somewhere and which, on the other hand, you realise that through the real need to modernise the Banking Code, but, of course, through contractual obligations, which you yourself had to make, had to move forward at a very specific pace. Finally, in a year which has been commented on by a number of people, the problems of the country are indeed many and are intense, it appears to be a real need to state the political'residents'. There seems to be no audience for the opposition. There seem to be internal issues that are increasingly diverse every day. Obviously there should also be a time when, through the possibility of a parliamentary procedure - and I would say - you have the opportunity to create a parliamentary weapon. I understand that, I really understand it. However, if you want to see things in their right dimension, I will tell you that the effort you are making to stop or delay government planning, to halt the government's reform programme and to stop the general efforts to settle all outstanding issues will obviously not work. And that's what I'm guessing. Because the new, the second opportunity that citizens deserve, will be the law of the state in a couple of days from now and we will all continue with the Prime Minister's instructions to implement all the reform measures in all areas of government action. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I think that the great effort being made in all areas not only to reform or bring innovative actions within the area of justice is more or less visible, but above all to create the calm, serious and institutional approach to all matters relating to justice. I say this because - you have seen the previous legislative initiatives - serious loose ends that the country had and which were exposed to the European Community, but also to key European Union institutions, have been dealt with in the best possible way. The regulation on the protection of personal data has been implemented by the previous government. There is already a bill in the first few days, so that there is no loose end and that the country is not exposed. The fact that we faced the passive bribe, which you have taken care of under the previous criminal code, is that you realize that it has put us in an orbit at least to stop the country being exposed internationally, pan-Europeanly, globally, to an issue that was almost answered throughout the modern European world. But also, on the other hand, trying to introduce new processes which relate to a completely different legal culture, namely to prioritise the alternative methods of resolving disputes by changing an obsolete legal culture of decades past with mediation, of course, became a reality in Greek society. You realise that many steps have been taken, such as reforming and reforming issues relating to the training of new judges, the national judiciary. We have dealt with issues relating to the Court of Auditors' procedural procedure, thereby giving through a reform dimension a direction towards speeding up justice. And, of course, in this year - I imagine you all know - we are implementing the biggest reform programme that exists in the area of justice in order to go to the era of digital justice. They are needs - if you want - priorities which have been in existence for many years and for the days of this government are being carried out. And all of this, of course - because I have to answer matters relating to the area of justice - is accompanied by a concrete and structured next day's planning. You know there's already a bill in this House dealing with the outstanding cases of Katseli law. We will start this week's debate on the relevant parliamentary committee. A reform of family law is planned in the relationship between parents and children. We are planning to introduce and conclude legislation on the Code of Judiciary, but of course there is an active committee on the reform of the Code of Civil Procedure and on social issues, which have a strong fingerprint and which will respond to many - if you like - sensitive issues. The framework of the juvenile protection companies and the home of the child will be reformed. We'll reshape the courier's framework. We are essentially in the middle of a very large, I repeat, effort leading to the whole area of justice on a much better next day. But let's see where we are. Because - you know - the refusal you actually show by submitting a motion of censure to the person of the Minister of Finance raises too many questions. And he raises a lot of questions about what he's trying to achieve today, the SYRIZA's party, when we want to remember what the reality is. The Group of the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, of the SYRIZA, which is supposedly cut off for civil protection, is not you who refused to vote on the regulation for the affected Karditsa farmers just two - three days ago? Aren't your MEPs the ones who refused to vote on the new common agricultural policy for the 19 billion that the country is going to get? We say this because I do not think any of our younger colleagues should remember that it was your government that established and bound citizens to electronic auctions. Is it true who committed to abolishing first home protection? Do you remember those, ladies and gentlemen? And it is this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and of the New Democracy that has actually achieved and achieved twice an extension of the protection of the first residence. It is this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis who suspended auctions during the pandemic period, protecting all citizens. And it is this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis who suspended the auctions for the affected "Janu". It is this government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and this Minister Christos Stakoras, who negotiated and achieved the program "GEYRA" to protect the first residence. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA we could talk for hours and say a lot. But the truth is that in the way you are working on one side you are unfairly unfair to yourself and, on the other hand, you are returning to a time when the rhetoric you have made, unfortunately, responded to a very small part of society. But you know, not having the vision is understandable. But returning to the age of illusions again - you had been in this phase before and in a previous year - I think it is also wrong for Greek society and for some reason they trusted you with their own vote. The answer will be given tomorrow by the government majority, which will confirm its confidence in both the Minister of Finance and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u379	Mr President, the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u380	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u381	Minister, excuse me. You mentioned in your position that it is the Government of Mr Mitsotakis who suspended first home auctions. As soon as Thursday was Thursday, the day the new bankruptcy code was discussed, the Piraeus Labour Center had invited a gathering outside a notary because the first home was auctioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u382	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u383	Mr Colleagues, I think that the efforts made by the government have been recorded in the consciousness of Greek citizens. Do not forget that the previous government had committed itself to a specific time-out of first home protection. Don't forget that twice this government managed to get an extension. Do not forget that during the pandemic period all the procedures relating to auctions were suspended under our legislation of the Ministry of Justice. But that is what you know from a previous year and it is not a responsibility or if you want a choice from the current government. I think that you should ask them in a very reasonable way and in a very specific way to those colleagues who sit on your side.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u384	We continue with Mr Bogdano from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u385	Why are we here today? Why are we talking? We are discussing, because the Chief of SYRIZA went to Stepma the day before yesterday, he made a motion of distrust with the Minister of Finance Christos Staikoura and together he did what he does best than anyone else - we must all admit it - sabotage, i.e. sabotage. How you make a three-day occupation. That's why we're here. And even you're making an occupation for the first residence, - very interesting! - Houses. So, let's talk about homes. Come up to the 1st of Athens, which you have reached culturally and economically. Do you really care about homes? Did you care about the thousands of apartments that were terrified of abandoning and divesting the families that built Athens itself, because for five years you have made the world capital hub of left-wing violence and illegal immigration? Do you care about houses where the Athenians were once sitting on Sunday around the table and where they are now stacked in the dirt and delivering dozens of misfortune from Central Asia and Africa? Do you care about semi-basement that once hosted student dreams and became hellcakes? Do you care about penthouses which were massively taken by investors from China and the Middle East? You care about the 1930s houses there in the fifth and sixth municipality apartments that were literally sold out to non-governmental organisations which, yes, you financed with 2.7 billion, to cooperate with domestic lawlessness, with Turkish slave traders and with the deep state of Erdogan, the same NGOs that we are now putting in order and when we have to refer them to justice. Do you want to be quiet? Unfortunately, we won't. Why? Why did you invite us to Stepma to do what? We need to talk about homes. The main representative of the JRC referred to Varnalis, he didn't say so, but I got the lyric. I'm going to refer to the Seferis. "The houses I had took them from me," says George Seferis. Those who forced the country to spend ten years in the Memorandum. Your fanatical trade unionists took them, who put their privileges above the survival of our rest. They were taken by the catastrophes you devastated and who on every question have the same answer, violence, and break. And they were taken by the leftists of the caviar who, in order to strike, allegedly targeted religion, nation and family as supposedly an expression of patriarchy and made my country, as Seferis says, "food for the gambles." But Seferis also says somewhere else: "You know", he says, "the houses easily stifle like nudities." And we have humiliated and - thank God - we are here and we are correcting, repairing, healing the evil you have done. But it really seems unbelievable to me. You're the radical left, not the refreshing. This has been cleared by Leonidas Kyrikos. And I'm sure you're not the honorable JRC. You have abandoned the idea of taking the economic field into your hands. You don't want to get the means of production anymore. You want to throw capitalism at what? Shaking the foundations of the nation - state. And in order to do so, you break up and dismantle, that is your policy, that is your desire, has Mr Tsakalots said, targeting the middle class - that is what? - the family cell. So aim at the bad tenants in cooperation, unfortunately, with atypical raids of red fascism that you have consistently imparted, taking homes from the inhabitants to entire parts of Athens. I'm a congressman for Athens, I know. Residents are buying funds, MEPs buy them, and you have devastated them. And you're coming today to talk about homes. You really are amazing, though, aren't you? And not only that, but you are coming to do so now that Turkey is testing the strengths of our Armed Forces, now that we are fighting COVID - nine hundred and thirty-five cases today - at its most critical turning point. It is not enough that you became suddenly in a night Turkish-eater, it is not enough for you to close your eye on occupants and well against the mask, but also at any kind of meeting - revolutionary exercise regardless of health measures. Do you now come with a motion of censure to attempt and what? Parliamentary sabotage. And you're choosing to target who? The Minister of Finance, Christos Stakoura. Colleagues, by applying government policies Christos Stakaras managed in a few months' time after the elections to stabilise the economy, bring new investments, reduce the country's borrowing interest rates and almost all the tax rates. And in the pandemic the government with this Minister of Finance has provided funds, boosts jobs, social groups and prepares the recovery without leaving anyone out. You did not vote in favour of the 'January' measures. Neither does the spaghetti with the new bankruptcy code convince anyone. The Greeks do not forget who were the ones who horizontally abolished the protection of the first home in 2019, they do not forget who was taking on how many cases of electronic auctions were made, nor do they forget the results, of course, of the proud negotiation of 2015. I'm closing, Mr. President. They don't forget who shamelessly went to buy votes with election poverty benefits. They are the same ones who are now deceiving. And all this, in conclusion, is not a motion of censure, Minister. Don't have the illusion that it's a motion of distrust to your face, Mr. Stakoura, Minister, who are in the pretext of attacking you. It's just the roll of a catastrophe that's lost control of the general assembly. In any case, I am proud of it - and I am proud of it - of the New Democracy. For three days now, citizens see and judge that the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the only power of national unity and salvation. With this government, therefore, with this captain at the wheel Greece resists, Greece fights, Greece insists, Greece wins and over its national effort you come and make sabotage. I'm afraid it's in your politics and your ideological DNA, but it's in our own not to let you do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Apostle Panos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today the country is faced with a threefold situation as well as the health crisis, which has constantly exacerbated in particular in recent days, there is a huge problem in the economy, but also unbearable foreign policy pressures with its neighbour. The development of the coronary causes insecurity among the citizens and, on the other hand, the government is engaged in a continuous communication management of the issue by effectively managing donations instead of the real and substantial strengthening of the health system. Eight months after the beginning of the pandemic in Greece, the coronary test remains very expensive, the ICMs have not been completed while we are still awaiting recruitment for health personnel. Because of the problematic production model followed by the country, the consequences of the health crisis are unbearable for almost all sectors of the economy. According to the Bank of Greece, a dramatic reduction in revenues from incoming tourism was found during the seven months of January-July 2020 with this fall exceeding 85% by associating the entire current account balance. As a result, thousands of people were working shorter periods, but many did not manage to work at all closer to the poverty line. The government has handled the issue with several omissions, while the aid channelled to affected businesses and workers has been much longer than the announcements. In fact, at the same time in other European countries, facilities and loans are provided to businesses on particularly favourable terms so that they can survive and continue to operate. At the moment, therefore, where the economy is faced with an unprecedented recession, the government has brought about a new bankruptcy framework focusing on the sale of assets for both businesses and natural persons, without even having been a real dialogue. With Law 3869/2010 that the government of Giorgos Papandreou had voted for the first time in Greece the institution of individual bankruptcy. This enabled the overdated consumers to settle their debts in the light of the real possibilities available, while the protection of the first home was also important. Indeed, there was also a rejection of the proposal of the Change Movement for a Intergroup Committee to further protect the first residence and further modernise the bankruptcy law of natural persons. So households are now also affected by the coronary crisis which has the effect of drastically limiting their incomes. They need to find viable solutions to resolve their debts so that they continue to do so without delay. It should be noted here that the Change Movement as early as 2019 in L.4605/2019 pointed out that the provisions on the protection of first residence could not replace the deficit resulting from the repeal of Article 9 of Law 3869/2010. All of this should add to the time-consuming problem that we have been dealing with with Turkey lately, where, as a result, the Turkish vessels are now roaming the Aegean. The Greek Government has shown an atmosphere in the management of the issue, and the European Union, despite the discussions, has so far not done anything essential to the normalization of the situation. As if that were not enough, in front of us for five years we have had the immigration problem that has been exacerbated. In all of this, by making a global criticism, we should also talk about the agricultural sector, which is our area of responsibility, where, despite the constant announcements of the government, little has been done about the essential support for farmers and farmers, so that today they are faced with difficulties which they are putting into question even the efforts they have made over this period. I would mention, in particular, a problem involving areas such as Halkidiki and many areas throughout Greece, where there was a huge blow in olive oil, and we expect to see how much support this will be, which will be in the table olive, according to the Minister. In conclusion, I would like to say that the country needs more immediate action on all open fronts, and beyond the management of the situation there should be a productive redeployment and optimum use of the resources available from the Recovery Fund. There is no room again for micro-political purposes or errors. The citizens have no other tolerance, after more than ten years of uncertainty and insecurity for their incomes, to be continuously restricted. There need to be targeted interventions. The country must adapt to the new data prevailing and create new wealth for the benefit of its citizens, limiting inequalities and confronting chronic structural problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u388	As you've always been in time. The Minister for Tourism now has the floor, Mr Theocharis. Then, after Mr. Theocharis, Mr. Economou will speak from New Democracy and Mr. Flabouraris from SYRIZA. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics it is of course important to read behind lines and behind actions. It is clear today that we are not discussing any motion of censure on Mr Stavoura. I do not know if we are discussing a motion of censure to hurt Mr Tsipras, as Adonis Georgiadis has already said. But it is certain that we are discussing a motion of censure against the government as a whole, a proposal which Mr Tsipras did not have the courage to do, and that is why he is hiding behind the Banking Code and behind Mr Stavoura. I know, because in the field of which my Ministry is headed, criticism is bad, blurred, monotonous monolithic. We also hear it in this debate. I will present you with an abstraction of the statements made by Mr Tsipras, Mrs Notopoulou all these months. I sum up: 'You do not support workers and businesses. You don't have a plan, you won't open the tourism. You opened up with decisions of surprise and forward - back. You risked our health by opening up. You do not bring enough revenue, only 3 billion received". It is high time, then, that they were answered here today by the Step of the House. Didn't we support the industry? Only SYRIZA has listened to the unprecedented support programme planned, mainly by Christos Stakouras, thanks to which tourism and the focus have endured, but also those sectors that have been affected. You alone did not hear about the repayable advance, about the 'COMPAN - WORK' programme, the public guarantee loans, the reduction of 40% rent and so many other measures. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, from the budget table with all the interventions of EUR 21.5 billion this year and EUR 2.6 billion for 2021. Didn't we open up with a plan? We're the only country with such an extensive plan. We worked with the health workers, with the help of the Ministry of Health, and we made protocols for every activity. In fact, the cruise protocols were made here by Greek professors and are valid throughout Europe and around the world. We have produced certifications and training in cooperation with chambers, regions, professional associations. hundreds of thousands of tourist workers were trained in the new protocols. We worked with the private sector that exemplarily implemented the protocols without deductions. We worked with the Ministry of Health to strengthen each island, each destination according to the needs, beds and all the needs that existed. We have created a network of quarantine hotels to keep tourists, employees, citizens safe. This has happened throughout Greece, a feat that allowed us to open up tourism and was organized in record time. We worked with the Civil Protection Policy and the EGE to shield borders and destinations. Their help allowed Greek tourism to be shielded so effectively. We worked with the EVA group, a system for which I will speak more, an innovative system for the distribution of control tests. Finally, we worked with all the ministries, such as shipping or transport, wherever and when we had to deal with a problem. Did we open up with surprises, forwards, backs or without security? We have opened up, as I said before, with the innovative 'EVA' system, a system which enabled us to do the following: firstly, to improve the effectiveness of controls up to four times, but on an average, two and a half times. Here is a graph showing how effective our own checks are in relation to random checks, if we did, at our borders. I mean, if we control 15% of tourists at the border, it's like we control about 40%. It allowed us to get signals about the situation of a country up to two weeks ago, so that we could close our borders earlier than the country's public data were told. Here I have another graph, in which we see that a country was uploading it to our own data two weeks before it started showing it with public data, so we were closing down sooner and sometimes surprisingly. And because they couldn't understand what data we had and some difficult conversations all this summer. It has allowed us to see where we have the strongest hot spot at our borders, so that we can signal the EGE mobile units daily to do locally to keep the local population safer than usual. I will also submit this information to the Minutes. At the same time, we were active promoters with advertising: "Greece From Home", "Destination Greece Health First", "Endless Greek Summer". We worked with the cruise and opened from the first countries. We expanded the season and continue to fight for this goal. We work with governments by providing data to keep the country open and with fewer restrictions, as much as possible. We are taking international initiatives within the framework of the World Tourism Organisation. We have also strengthened domestic tourism with unprecedented funds and multiple programmes and with travel agencies for the first time within these programmes, even though the fear of the pandemic has not allowed all these programmes to be used to the fullest extent this year. That is why I am announcing that new programmes will also be created in order to strengthen winter destinations, but that we will also extend the existing programmes over time. And we are already in discussions positively with the Ministry of Finance with the intention of implementing private sector voucher programmes and time. The result was overwhelmingly positive for the image of our country, which has been greatly improved at this time. I speed up results: over four thousand checks have been carried out on hotel employees and there have only been two positive cases, namely 0,2 positive ones, when the country's internal positivity is more than multiple, more than ten times. The health authorities, to give you an example, of Great Britain, accepted that the cases that they had from Zakynthos did not get stuck by the community, by the Greeks, only by other British people, who were also congratulated on not going through the community. The result is that they were delayed for four weeks to get us into orange and when they first did so, because we had so substantial data at local level, they only did so on the basis of geographical criteria and not on the whole country. For the first time, Great Britain has not ruled out a whole country in the case of our country. Large colosses such as 'TUI', 'DER', 'JET2', 'FTI' extend their programme deep in November for the first time and possibly in December depending on health developments. A timeless bet of Greek tourism is won this year and we will strive to keep track of the time. The Canary Islands. We speak with great tour operator, whoever had disagreed at the beginning of the year with our own control system and our strategy, which we insisted on and proposed that the tour operator copy Greece as the best country with which he has cooperated. Spain's last proposal on the Canary and Balearic Islands in the European Union has precisely this logic. He's copying us. The European Union is discussing the introduction of a single PLF to the model of our country. There'll be next week - I want to believe - announcements. CLIA, the international connection of the cruise, thanks us by letter for this year's support. I've got it here, and I'm filing it in the Minutes. The president of CLIA, Adam Goldstein, does the same at two meetings of the World Tourism Organization, and the cruise is progressing smoothly for now despite the Cassandras. For now, though. I'm stressing it. Multiple reports on the safety and attractiveness of our country as a destination. See, for example, some I'm filing. Credit to Greece for the management of foreign visitors by the CEO of the "TRIP ADVISOR". "Why don't the other countries do what Greece does?" In an interview. British press, by "INDEPENDENT": "I was told not to go to Greece because of the coronary, but I was safer when I went, I felt safer than in Manchester." Twenty better areas to travel this year. Inside our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u390	Please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u391	I shall conclude, Mr President, but every two or three speakers speak of tourism. You know it's an important matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u392	You have one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u393	Our country ranks first - and I have another HANDELSBLATT - on the preferences of European travellers. Characteristics of the 'TUI': Last year, Spain had almost three times more tourists than our country. This year has 80% of tourists who came to our country. There was only one argument left in the Qualified Opposition. This year we won't catch three billion. We don't have to hurry first. We never set quantitative targets, only qualitative. And we succeeded them all, while those who opened this year's move, which was the one they were, but wherever you ask - in Rhodes, Kos, in Crete, in Corfu - will tell you that the move was inappropriate. They weren't expecting her at first. We'll see. You have invested in the bankruptcy of Greek tourism. You failed once more. You played with the agony and the future of thousands of workers and businesses in the sector. You were disproved once again. Follow the opposition of the 'burned land'. You do not express anxiety, demands, policies. You bet on unemployment, economic destruction, human suffering, and you've been miserable. And thankfully, because I even now have the hope that you have learned. Even now I hope that the major initiative, to open up the barriers to the rapid tests we take at international level, will even be supported at the very last moment by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u394	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u395	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure has no basis. The legislative work of Christos Stakouras is very important. The normalization of borrowing unprecedented, achieving even negative interest rates. The completion of all ratings in an immediate and positive way, while the new bankruptcy code at last recognizes the right to mistake, the right to failure, the right to start without burdens and without stress. In addition, your alternative proposal is nonexistent. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not belong to those who believe that you should not make a motion of censure. On the contrary. Mr. Tsipras is too late. He had to start the motions of censure from 2015. Where was the motion of censure against Varoufakis when he spent tens of billions of dollars in the country? Where was the motion of censure against Mr Tsakalotou when he made electronic auctions, which were both socially and developmentally beneficial? Where was the motion of censure when you didn't take down HISBIA? Where was the motion of censure when you brought the Criminal Code to help the Golden Dawn? Where was the motion of censure, when Paulis attacked Kymbouropoulos? Do you know why you didn't make a motion of censure? Because you're Dorian Grey politicians. You do not believe in anything, as comrade Kontonis has shown, but as every citizen has experienced for the last four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u396	Minister, you have exceeded your time by four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u397	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u398	Finish, but finish for four minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u399	I'm done, Mr. President. So now that the country needs a responsible opposition, you are absent. Now that it needs a responsible opposition, now that the country needs balance, you do not exist anywhere. And the only balance comes from this New Democracy Parliamentary Group, from this Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, a moderate Prime Minister. So you cannot accomplish your work. This motion of censure proves it, because you are a political scarecrow, without a heart, a soul or an ideology. And like all the scarecrows, you don't convince any human beings, no civilians, thankfully. Fortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u400	Aren't you embarrassed? Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u401	So we're going on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u402	Is that what you're talking Aren't you embarrassed? You're laughing. Is that where you arrived? Is that a vocabulary? Is that a political designation?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u403	Let go. I presiding, I think we're doing a good job, doing the checks, etc. Sit down, Mr. Flambury, because there has been an internal change. No one's turn changes. Mr. Economou's seat will go Mr. Loading. And if there is time, in the place of Mr. Load, which is last, Mr. Tsigris will speak. It's an internal change, it's no change in order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u404	In the time available to you to cut him off by the Ministers and not by the Members, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u405	Time will be observed. What can I do, Mr. Kegeroglu, you've all violated him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u406	Cut him off from the other ministers, not the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u407	Are the ministers others, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u408	He's one more minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u409	In the time available to you to cut him off by the Ministers and not by the Members, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u410	You've all violated him, Mr. Kegeroglu, a year since yesterday. Okay, we know. Poor thing. It's at the expense of colleagues. But there is a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u411	Cut him off, Mr. President, from the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Flamouraris has gone to Stepma, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u413	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sadly succeeding in the step by a speaker who is really putting down the level of the parliamentary procedure too much. I believe that his political culture has reached below zero. I do not want to continue my reference to what, unfortunately, the speaker who, as far as I can see, also sits at ministerial level. I now come to my speech. They really wonder why we tabled this proposal. We respond: The motion of censure is our only parliamentary weapon to a piece of legislation that is not simple. It is a memorial against the citizens, it is a mechanism to protect the property of the Greeks. So we do not want him to go to the shower, we do not want a law to go into hiding, but we want it to be discussed. And, unfortunately, so far we cannot say that there has been or has been a substantial intervention on this bill. The only thing that the vast majority of the speakers of the Coupling are to transfer responsibility to SYRIZA's realities by its well-known method, a method that distorts reality, is lies and constantly refers to virtual reality and, indeed, to a society that is struggling for its health and survival. That is why I would ask you to stop this kind of behaviour and attack on SYRIZA officials, such as Euclid Tsakalotos, but also on the overall government of SYRIZA, who have often been in the difficult position to implement what you have caused with your choices before and during the memorials. I would also like to ask you to stop tears for the lost opportunity of the first residence, that there was no such protection in SYRIZA. It is known to everyone - but it does not let you believe it, think about it and mention it - that in the government of SYRIZA no first popular residence has been auctioned. At the same time, I would like to remind you - because much is said - that we were always talking about protecting the people's and the middle homes. That is why we put EUR 250,000 as an objective value in housing as a limit. On this basis, Mr.4605/2020 was tabled and voted on and it started to apply from 1 July, that is, six days before the elections. You have received him as a government and according to our appreciation, in cooperation with the banks and the funds, you have undermined him. Please stop disinforming with make news. We have never claimed that all of this is our policy. We never considered our property. As far as government work is concerned, I would like to point out that all the financial measures mentioned by Mr Stagioras in his first speech with the five axes - about fourteen proposals for tax relief - if they were genuine measures that they had done, unemployment would not reach those levels which have reached it, the recession would be limited, the shops would not close one behind the other, nor would the households suffer. And all that I mention for the period before the pandemic measures, until the first quarter of 2020. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have, for 15 months with your policy, despite the fact that, apart from memorialities, you are removing workers' rights, strangling small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, sacrificing the property of the Greeks together and their residence, not strengthening the public health system, rejecting public education, targeting young people, ignoring culture and art and destroying the ancients of Thessaloniki. This is the political account of a government, which for 15 months has taken over the fates of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like one more minute, Mr President, please. Let's go to bankruptcy now. I'm a little interested in whether the Greek citizen will be called poor or indebted, though that's what matters. Of course, as I do not want my country to be a prisoner of debt, I do not want any of my fellow citizens trapped in the debts and in the endless courts. The issue is the decay mechanism. Well, let's get to know each other. If the numbers are correct, we have six hundred thousand households locked in and a large part of the businesses, 80% of the small and medium sized, trapped. Therefore, declaring, in order to be tolerated, must comply with the principles of the State-law and the welfare state. This is the only way it acts for the benefit of society and the economy. You don't show the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Flambury, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u415	...from a last resort to a basic option.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u416	Time is relentless. Please. You've been over your time for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u417	I think that analgesia, which goes beyond this bill, is the crucial issue we need to address. Because, in my assessment, a law that is "finishing" billions and brings out the debtor of 100,000 is a legislature of anti-democratic, anti-social, culminating in injustice and analgesia. And that's the proposed bill. I call on the Minister to freeze, in a move of political courage, the debate on this abomination and withdraw it, because he is sure - and I am sure - that the Greek people, the democratic progressive Greece, will not allow this disastrous bill to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u418	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, we will also speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u420	The program will, however, stick to it even if we exceed 23:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u421	Everyone spoke a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u422	Everyone must respect the time for all other colleagues. Mr Loading has the floor, which is always brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u423	You know, I'm gonna talk to you for eight minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u424	Listen, don't put it like this blackmail. I imagine you did so with pleasure and joking. Here, Mr. Loading, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u425	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to previous speakers, but in particular to the latter, I think that SYRIZA, unfortunately, is still in a political verding situation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you are unable to understand why your Greek people have removed you from power. Since you've been on the counterpopulation benches, you're unable to develop a dynamic alternative and you're stuck in various horses of impression games. The whole debate, which was provoked by the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Christos Staikos, has already changed from yesterday to a de facto occasion for the government in order to present in detail everything that the country has achieved in the field of the economy - and not just - over the last fifteen months. This is an inappropriate gift, as a result of the ever-increasing political deadlock of the Officerial Resistance, but also of its Chief personally. This reproach has even come, on the occasion of taking the legislative initiative, which regulates a major, chronic and even thorny economic and social issue, which directly employs the first home for about thirty thousand household borrowers, where they are not currently covered by the provisions of the law of your own - of 4605 - on the Government of Tsipras and who succeeded the few and ineffective but also multiplely problematic law, the famous Katseli law. So the aim is clear that SYRIZA, as well as you personally, will prove to your frustrated fans that, at last, you are upsetting the waters already ponding, your own political waters. This bill for the first time sets out a programme of valid legalisation for households, but also for businesses, to the right of extrajudicial regulation of their debts. A new procedure is now in place in an easy and immediate way for applications to be made without the party's compulsory presence in the various judicial chambers. They also acquire bankruptcy capacity for the first time, and the households, which are bankrupt. In other words, all natural persons can apply for bankruptcy by means of a specific platform. Moreover, it is based on vulnerable households, which can stay in their homes for twelve years by paying a very low rent, and the state itself is subsidising the monthly instalment of these loans for five years. Finally, a debt-free procedure is being set up for everyone regardless of their status in a short period of time from one to three years. This is a regulation, which even a member of the Executive Committee of the Financial Stability Fund, your representative, but also a member of your institutions in the past and of course a proposal from Mr Tsakalotou, Mrs Marika Frankakis adopted as a good legislative initiative, calling for coordination between public-private bodies in order to implement the law and all other provisions and for systematic monitoring of the implementation of the law. One thing is certain, that you like, ladies and gentlemen of the Great Response, the micro-policy of dealing with all things, and of course the disorientation of society, a society that is suffering from many problems and, above all, the major theme is running it and is burning and very important. And your tactics are friendly, as with great ease you change positions, but also proposals in fact by rejecting too easily and at once. This is why, as SYRIZA was fabulously voted against by the Greek people in the July 2019 elections, this motion of censure against Christos Stakoura from the Parliament will be banned. The country can't wait. The problems that we have to face, but also to fight at this difficult juncture, are too much and this government can, must and must go ahead. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr Loading, for keeping time. Mr. Dermenzopoulou Christos has the floor from New Democracy, then Mr. Delis from the Communist Party of Greece and then Minister Zavvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when our country is being called upon to face up to a number of challenges, manage the economic crisis and its economic consequences and increase Turkish aggression in the Aegean Sea, the Civic Opposition with its Chief decides to table a motion of censure against the Minister of Finance. It is clearly a movement of political despair and extremism, as we have been accustomed to, of course, by turbulence, which clearly demonstrates the fact that the Party of Officers will never become a party of responsibility. Because of this political amoralism that characterises its leadership, SYRIZA continues today to pursue a policy that primarily serves the narrow micro-party interest. As a result of this attitude, it is also the aim of the Finance Minister through the motion of censure. Mr Tsipras, noting that he has been put on the political margin and with serious internal problems, attempts to achieve the temporary coexistence of his MPs through cheap and deadly political and communication tactics. Unfortunately for you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this will be a pitiful failure, as it is the same reality that is most clearly disputing your positions and opinions. Our government's economic policy has gained the confidence of Greek society, the recognition of our European partners and international markets. Proof of the correctness of the choices of our government's financial staff is the fact that our country is being borrowed from the markets at the lowest loan cost in its history. So, with liberal ideology, we implemented a policy that, as its main aim, had the creation of an extremist and competitive economy that would be able to attract significant foreign investments and create new jobs. That is what we have committed in the run-up to the election, and that is what we are doing. In this direction, therefore, we have moved towards a generous divergence in the tax rates for both companies and individuals. At the same time, we reduced employers' contributions by 24%, while we also exempted the inhabitants of the small islands of our country from payment. At the same time, in order to address the country-critical demographic problem, we have, among other things, proceeded with the grant of a child's allowance, while we have increased the tax on every child. At the same time, we have designed, implemented targeted interventions to strengthen the social state by strengthening social tourism programmes for the first time in Evros and effectively protecting the first residence of vulnerable households. In addition, with a structured design we re-established our shipbuilding industry, we gave a development perspective to a number of problematic state-owned enterprises, such as ‘ELVO’, ‘LARCO’, ‘EAB’, we ensured the start of the Greek emblematic investment, while we also created a more friendly, more favourable environment to attract foreign investment strategies in infrastructure, such as the port in the area of Alexandroupolis and new technologies with the data centers of ‘MICROSOT’. On this, too, you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a special reference to the reimbursement of 12% of the labour costs for Thrace, a measure proposed by the Ministry of Finance together with the Ministry of Labour, was a breath for the operations of Evros, while its vote brought an end to the four-year imprisonment suffered by the SYRIZA Government by the operators and enterprises of eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy implemented by the government in the economy brings tangible results and that is why it enjoys the confidence of Greek society, as does all the polling. This trend is naturally also reinforced by the fact that the memory of SYRIZA's governance is still fresh in the memory of Greek citizens. The imposition for ideological reasons of exotic taxation against the middle class, the misappropriation of promises and actions, as well as the use of an extreme divisive rhetoric made SYRIZA politically toxic in the eyes of Greek society and society, gentlemen, has overtaken you. The above fact, however, apparently, has not been understood by the leadership of the Officerial Response. That is why using yesterday's populist methods, SYRIZA is trying in vain to claim a role and change its political balance today. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, our prolongation should leave the Qualified Opposition to its political deadlock. In rejecting the proposal of distrust to the person of the Minister of Finance, we allow the Government to turn its attention to the future and the great challenges facing us. I invite you all to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much, Mr Dermenjopoulou, for keeping time. Mr Yiannis Delis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. Please, if you can, make your time five minutes, like the two previous speakers, so that everyone can make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u429	What else will our ears hear, ladies and gentlemen, in here? That New Democracy is setting up "LARCO" while she's closing it? Go tell these workers, the next rally they have for their lives and their right to work. Now, not only do we deplore and vote against this House, but we also oppose, in terms of a movement, the government policy as a whole, as we condemn all those parties like SYRIZA, who also went ahead with the retreat of anti-grass policy as governments, and now also from the opposition, despite their krone, do not question the targeting of today's policy, a policy that first sprinkles with the bag of poverty into the people and then brings new bankrupt codes to the House to manage it. All your policy is ultimately an endless bankruptcy code for the people's families and their current needs, not only in their wages, wages, wages, pensions and labour rights, not only in the health rights of the people, who are sacrificed on the altar of profits of business groups writing in their old shoes the health protocols of the pandemic, but also in the wider area of education. Because the educational policy of all governments is nothing but an impotent bankruptcy code for the cultural rights of children of the people's families from kindergarten to university. Remember what? That children are exhausted in useless knowledge, often stuck in front of a screen from primary or preschool yet, are they disciplined in atomicism and competition? That even before they conquer their mother tongue, are you turning them into foreign languages, to that where they are of course only useful for tourist services and for their migration, perhaps later? That you're teaching them the language through cooking recipes and party invitations? As if the beautiful texts were missing from Greek literature. Seferis you keep reminding him here and displaying poetic knowledge, but from the school books, the great Greek poets made them! That you're teaching them about his mathematics in the top science of accuracy? That you're teaching them sciences without labs and experiments? That parents are often forced to become teachers because of difficult books? That the aesthetic treatment is only meant for a few talents? So what should the rest of them feed? With the well-known telescopes? That sport is given only to those who have the opportunity to pay? That the entire education will only last for a few and a half? That for the rest, the many, the future you're preparing for them is an endless uncertainty in life and work? So you only give them crumbs from the necessary knowledge. That is why you are extinguing them with the topic banks, which turn schools into permanent inquiries centres. That's why you're turning university degrees into unemployment passports or, at most, to one of the many simple formal qualifications that most of them are expensively sold in the educational market, such as postgraduate. And all that, you know, it's not a single government job. All governments served this anti - education work well. And as much as the current government tried to convince it of the normality it supposedly returned to education, the question came from where it did not expect it: from adolescent students, young people and young people who, with their struggle, their demands and the social resonance of this struggle, ignored all government propaganda. You have resorted to threats to the extortion of the students. You've been recruiting prosecutors, outraged civilians, willing school directors who have come to testify - listen to me! - their own students, calling even the police in schools, while the Ministry of Education itself - yes - of education! - took out circular blockades, please, from the education of students fighting, to end up in the wild crackdown with chemicals and wood outside the door of the Ministry of Education and the detention of fourteen-year-old students in the GDR for days. You see that state of capital shows a great deal of ability to wrap in a glue of four-year-old children, but another such inability to arrest fugitive Nazi criminals like Golden Pappa. SYRIZA is here all of a sudden, and while at the beginning of the pandemic through the newspaper "AGEY" was destroying students, he wore after the student friend's face. Except here too, "my enemies have been dressed up many times" because we do not forget your works and your days. October 2016, SYRIZA government sends police prosecutors and cages to Lamia high school. May 2017, the Court of Minors sentences three students of the 1st High School Rethymnon to social work - why? - because they participated in a school occupation. November 2018, SYRIZA government responds with wood and chemicals to a student protest at the 2nd General High School. So it goes a long way for SYRIZA to appear as a friend of the students. But what are they really asking for now - and I close, Mr President - are the students and are under attack like this? The safe operation of their schools in pandemic conditions, with all the necessary teachers and all the necessary cleaning staff, that is to say, the logical, the necessary, and that is why they have the support of society, and that is why this struggle is being ravaged by the government. Because, among other things, these demands need money, money in the state, that is, these children, Mr. Finance Minister, question the very core of your policy, which is to give NATO and business groups billions and leave education and health to unclaimed. Fighting students show the way and the people don't give up their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u430	The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Zavvos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u431	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current motion of censure by SYRIZA is really acidifying, especially if you consider what has been achieved by the government's financial staff and the Minister of Finance, Christos Stakoras, within 15 months, and especially by comparison with the five-year-old governance of SYRIZA. The motion of censure is under way at an untimely political juncture, which the country faces three relapsing crises: health, national and economic. While we are struggling with all our powers, together with our partners, to deal with an unprecedented situation, right now SYRIZA is choosing to object by giving his or her lessons of social banking and sensitivity. Who is that? Those who proved unable to handle the crisis when they were in the government. Those who, as experimenting magicians, played the country in the dice, loaded this generation and the next generations with huge and unnecessarily debts and sent for a job abroad what's best for this country. However, if this proposal of distrust against the Minister of Finance shows that there is an identity crisis in the SYRIZA and that there is a lack of real political proposals. To be clear, the New Democracy does not give anyone the privilege of social sensitivity. On the contrary, this government has made numerous reforms in the economy, in investment, in labour, in digitisation of the state, aimed precisely at alleviating the most vulnerable sections of income and these reforms are accepted by the majority of society. In relation to the Bankruptcy Code, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are overlooking for rather reasons of a sterile opposition the innovative nature of a bill that you as a government committed to bringing to Parliament. It is a bill that aims to decapitate debtors from previous laws that have led to their being excluded from the country's economic life. The draft law on the regulation of debts and on the provision of a second chance tackles the problem of private debt as a whole and enables debts to be regulated for natural and legal persons, individuals, professionals and businesses. It really gives the second chance in the event of bankruptcy so that legal and natural persons do not follow them indefinitely. It also provides a realistic solution to the issue of first residence. The motion of censure is directed against a minister who implements a policy in a sector that needs radical consolidation so that the Greek economy can be dismantled after a long time. I would very briefly like to refer to four reforms made by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of New Democracy in the financial sector. Firstly, what have we done about non-performing loans, red loans? When the Government in July 2019 took the strong folk mandate, one of the most acute problems facing it was the huge volume of red loans that corresponded to the biggest indicator that one has ever seen in the Eurozone. Approximately 50% of existing loans were red. These were a tight nipple in the economy and reflected the cumulative failures of the previous five years of SYRIZA. In other words, after the recapitalisations with the Greek taxpayer's money, which the economic crisis and the projects of SYRIZA's governance had kneeled, the previous government chose to passively monitor red loans to increase, without substantial intervention, without a plan, with no prospect of exiting from the vicious cycle. Therefore, the top political choice of our government was the immediate implementation of the program "HRAKLIS". In time, a record that rarely met reform in this country, we planned, negotiated, legislated and implemented the "HRAKLE". And these through huge adversities and reactions at first, because we were "knowledging" interests which this toxic apnea and inappropriateness caused. And all that on the back of the Greek taxpayer. We now have to apply by the government a systemic solution that reduces by 40% or EUR 30 billion the volume of red loans in the first phase, and that is, in fact, very small. It is a project adopted and supported by the European institutions and the international investment community. Today one bank gives the baton to the next and the four systemic banks finally harmonize exactly the same wavelength. Within 15 months of the takeover of the government three of the four systemic banks have already joined the programme "HRAKLIS" and the fourth one comes from its announcements. The HERAKLIS programme is a solution which does not deprive the Greek taxpayer of even the minimum. On the contrary, it draws funding from investors. And let me say here that this is a critical political observation. This is the great success of the government's policy with rapid efficiency and without the slightest cost to the Greek taxpayer. It is also a solution based on market confidence, that is, on the international confidence in the political and financial management of the present government. With the reduction of red loans, banks will get rid of the worst burden and focus on the only work they have to do properly, namely providing liquidity to the real economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and households. So who's more socially sensitive? The person watching red loans eject, kneeling the citizen from the lack of elementary access to liquidity and banking, or the one who reduces them without burdening the Greek taxpayer and opening up new prospects for financing and development? But the reforms do not stop here. I go through the micro-finances that we have voted on here, in the legislation brought by the Greek Government on the framework for micro-finance, which is an innovative tool for providing liquidity to all those who are excluded from bank lending, students, small and medium-sized enterprises, free professionals, start-ups. The appropriations will be up to EUR 25 000, without borrowers being obliged to provide collateral. We have also voted for the Corporate Governance Act, with which we are strengthening transparency and aiming to protect micro-enterprises. We restore the credibility of the Greek capital market in order to attract investors. We encourage listed companies to form a corporate culture. We have an institutional shield on the capital market. We are vigilating sanctions both for listed companies and for sworn auditors. We place foundations for the upgrading of the Greek Capital Market and Stock Exchange. We also passed, passed the bill to combat money laundering, a bill that enhances transparency, so that the phenomena of "washing" can be identified and dealt with in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u432	Minister, in ten minutes we have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u433	Mr President, we are in a crisis that the Ministry of Finance is facing with constant reforms the issues that touch citizens and facilitate entrepreneurship. In this area, tax arrangements have been made, but also in the field of financial transactions, we have arranged for the non-inclusion of cheques in the “TECSIA”, thereby giving a breath to the entrepreneurs who were directly affected by lockdown and the restrictions imposed. At the same time, in the Ministry of Finance, we are speeding up the compensation to those affected by the recent natural disasters, for the first time providing for the possibility of paying part of the compensation before the damages are recorded. Mr President, we also have the Recovery Fund that we believe provides a unique opportunity for substantial transformation of the country's productive fabric, but also of the banking system, huge and necessary, so that we can be the winners of the next day, to those who can compete equally in the new economy that is deleted from the digital transition and green growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u434	Minister, please, please, conclude because we have the time when the officials have to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u435	I shall conclude, Mr President. To conclude, I would like to say that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance Christos Stagiras has an ambitious and coherent plan - which we are constantly adapting in line with the rapid developments - and which aims to make Greece a strong regional power with a leading role in the European institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u436	Well, thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore call on you to vote against SYRIZA's motion of distrust against the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagira. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u438	Thank you. Our problem is not to keep the Bureau for you. But the measures begin at 0.30 p.m. It takes a half hour to get to their homes. I would therefore say that Mr Lazarides and Mrs Auger will now speak and perhaps one more. So the list will continue tomorrow morning. Please keep the time in five minutes to talk more. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u439	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is once again clear that panic is a bad consultant. Mr. Tsipras prisoner in panic, who is causing him his inner-party problems and the abstraction of society, has once again stepped on him. So let's say 'lines', which we say in Kavala. Our country is currently facing two very serious and critical challenges for the future of the exogenous challenge, as from their outcome we will be judged on our way in the next few years. On the one hand, they are Turkey's one-off challenges, from Cyprus to Crete and from Crete to Evros, challenges that we all want to be united and vigilant. On the other hand, it is the relapse of the coronary which imposes additional measures for its recovery and causes side effects on the economy, businesses, workers and the unemployed. And all this, the Civic Opposition ignores them, turns them back, shows how far he stands from the most critical issues that concern all Greeks. In her attempt to cover inner-party frictions, she resorts to hypocritical, sterile, counterproductive tactics and comes in direct contrast to her institutional obligation, displays political hypocrisy. They claim that the government puts an end to the protection of first residence. And who do they say that? Those who, with the third inappropriate memorandum, committed to putting an end to its protection. Those who by successive laws ended in the context that existed. Those from the "no house in the hands of a banker" and "broken" did more than five thousand electronic auctions. Those who imposed a self-sufficient procedure for those who blocked auctions and carried their distanced companions to the GDR. All of these are now turning against a bankruptcy code that does wrongly correct texts of decades in a realistic, fair and socially sensitive manner. How? With provision for prevention, early warning and a new start either by adjusting in favourable terms the debts or providing a second chance for those who lost the first, with social sensitivity as the first residence is protected as a permanent social protection policy for vulnerable households, with justice through checks to avoid the use of the arrangements by strategic poor payers, with arrangements providing for repayment of up to two hundred instalments for debts to banks, loan managers and public authorities, with State grant of loans for the first residence of vulnerable households for five years in order to meet a debtor in the total debt arrangement and to save the entire property. We are bringing a much more equitable and socially sensitive framework which is a definitive solution to the problem and does not just throw it under the rug as you, Mr SYRIZA, have done in so many cases. And you, instead of a responsible glimpse, are astonishing and supposedly rebellious. If they're not glaring samples of political hypocrisy, then what is it? If these are not samples of contradictions and unreliability, then what is it? If these do not show a lack of responsibility and in critical times, what do they show? Ladies and gentlemen, there is today a Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and a government, the Government of New Democracy, which applies methodically to increased reflexibility, a strategic safety net above the Greek economy and the entire society. This is a government that had produced a realistic and effective package of fifty-nine meters, totalling more than EUR 24 billion. This is a government which, despite the negative juncture, transforms the tax landscape by reducing taxes and contributions, while at the same time having important reforms. This is, of course, the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. It is a government which, in its political responsibility and the language of truth, inspires and will continue to inspire the Greeks. On the one hand, there is seriousness and responsibility, and on the other hand, irresponsibility and political opportunism. On the one hand, there is real concern for Greece and society, and on the other hand, attempting to deception and fireworks, of course, to cover the Disabled Opposition of nakedness and poverty in political positions and arguments. This is and we will be in the biennials our warning difference and this difference will turn the motion of censure into a boomerang for its inspirations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mr Lazarides, for keeping time. In view of the time being, as I have told you, there is a problem with the officials, but also with everyone, because you must move on and you will speak first, Mrs Augerre, Mr Spiriticos, Mr Nicholas Papapas, Mr Markopoulos, Mr Frangidis, Mr Bizios and Mr Tsigris, Mr Tsigris, Mr Tsigris, Mr Tsigris, Mr Tsigris and Mr Tsigris. The rest of you will speak tomorrow morning with Mr. Janakopoulos first, after Mr. Foyla, Mrs. Canelle and Mr. Muzala. Mrs. Aegiris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last Thursday the New Democracy Government attempted to commit the maximum possible amount of its mandate to date. He attempted to pass into the mosquito laws with which he effectively abolishes the protection of the first home. It was attempted to pass into the mosquito laws by which private banks can grab the homes of the fighting people. At the same time, while attempting this, with the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group being tuned to say that the government gives a second chance to tens of thousands of honest debtors, the Prime Minister planned to appear with a new television proclamation as the white leader, to enter the homes that the New Democracy Government is now threatening to take out in the hammer and to announce new measures to protect health from the coronary. In other words, Mr Mitsotakis had designed to make his MPs and the Ministerial Council and you, Mr Staikora, the dirty work of Parliament and Mr Mitsotakis himself artificially abstain, as if he were not the principal in charge. Mr. Mitsotakis was once again planning to get on TV as the protector, the savior. The motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Alexis Tsipras, announced, was based on another stage of communication management and concealing the property and health of the citizens. And suddenly the neo-democratic structure was shaken, surprised, not anticipated. It is a sign of the arrogance caused by your almightyness, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Self-powered, yes, you are. With the media on your side, yes, you are. But you are not almighty, because the Greek people are beginning to understand that you have deceived him. And you deceived him, not because you fought a hard European battle with all your powers for the right of those who trusted you, a battle that didn't come out of you. And I shall peace in this side, you shall not be fought wherever you stand and wherever you are. You deceived the Greek people because you are not fighting. You bring bills yourself, you bring me small memos. So the New Democracy is shocked by its motion of censure and its first reaction in this Chamber was that we as a Qualified Opposition do not use the means of parliamentary control properly, that this situation is not right in the midst of a pandemic. And I'm sorry, is the juncture right for the New Democracy Government in the middle of a pandemic when he tells people to stay at home, she planning on how banks take home to him? In the first phase of the pandemic, Mr. Mitsotakis said to the world "we wait at home to close the coronary outside". Now what are you telling us in phase two? In the second phase of the pandemic, without any shame, Mr. Mitsotakis brings the new bankruptcy code that opens the door to the first home auctions, giving the slogan to the predators: we take you home. And at the same time some other predators are challenging the Aegean. And at the same time, in this Chamber, from the government-led member of the Greek government, he calls the 12 nautical miles nationalism. How many wounds can you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, challenge the dignity of the Greek people? And because scriptta manent, I have the Minutes in front of me from the Minister's speech, Mr Chrysochide, although they do not need practically because as far as I remember - I was present - Mr Chrysochoidis did not speak what we call 'by heart'. Read. Writing was his answer. So I think he can also self-concept what he wrote or wrote to him. Mr Chrysochides said to us: 'You are attacking dangerous weapons to survive: nationalism with the twelve nautical miles'. I put it in the Minutes in case the Minister forgot his notes here. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora (Group) Augeris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Chrysochoidis - and I conclude, Mr President - if he wanted to button the word 'nationalism' in a photograph rather than in the twelve nautical miles, he would have been given the opportunity to search for photos through the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. He is absent from the speaker who an hour ago made the most nationalist speech and intervention that could be a Member of the Greek Parliament. And I imagine the New Democracy is not proud of it. Hybris is incomprehensible and is not only represented by the Finance Minister, who is also the main comedist of the Banking Code Act. It comes from the entire government and the power system, at the top of which is Mr Mitsotakis. And as much as they try some media and right-wing states to blame young people, when in children, when in old people, when in one professional group and when in the other, you either tell them it's their fault that they're stuck or you tell them it's their fault they're bankrupt, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will be here. We'll be here to put the Prime Minister back in the curiosity of the responsibilities he's trying to get out of until he falls out of his glass depth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, too. Mr Spyros Spiritis has the floor from New Democracy and then he is about to speak Nicholas Papapas, and then Dimitris Markopoulos. Mr. Spiritual, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly amazed at the time when the Chief of Official Representation has chosen to raise such a matter, the proposal of distrust with the Minister of Finance of our country, Mr Christos Stakosras, amidst the major crises that our country is currently experiencing, both by the outbreak of the Koronovius pandemic and the Greek-Turkish relations, which are at a very critical point at this time. Honestly I wonder what the real reason is, but also what benefit SYRIZA thinks it will get from this debate. Is this all done to balance the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation with his party's internal issues, with a view to the lost crowding of his world or simply for reasons of communication policy? We'll see. But let me get through to the point. The bill that our government proposes and has put it to the vote comes to give one more chance to those people who have debts to the public, the funds and the banks and who have not fulfilled their obligations. It introduces a realistic framework for dealing with private debt, which is a real threat to our country and to Greek society. This private debt is about EUR 234 billion. As a result, the productive economy, the State's revenues and, of course, the hostage of the obligated debtors, which is also passed on to the next generations, is being perpetuated. The government's proposal therefore focuses on three aspects: the prevention, treatment and re-launching and the provision of a second opportunity. All this, of course, separating strategic malpractices from those who have just been in a difficult position because of the circumstances. We have heard many objections from the Opposition, such as a bill on mosquitoes, about an organised plan to guard the homes of the citizens, but we have not yet heard of a counter-proposal. Unless what SYRIZA wants is for no one to keep any citizen's financial obligations for any reason and without any consistency. The common sense says that when a loan is received, it must do so as far as possible, that is to say, as far as possible, to guarantee that it can pay up to the end of its instalments. Of course they are. But that always remains the general rule, a reference point. It is unacceptable to perpetuate the phenomenon of people who have received disproportionate loans in relation to their financial potential. They are given choices and opportunities in this bill too early to help households and businesses get away from the vicious debt cycle. So don't get lost at home. Nobody wants that. However, we must also think about what message we want to give to all those who throughout the last decade's economic crisis have remained consistent with their obligations, with great personal sacrifices. One of the reasons why our country's economy is able to stand up is the contribution of all those who were and remained consistent. And if we really want to continue, we must push them in the right direction rather than push them backwards and in the opposite direction. As for the first permanent residence, it is also permanently protected, without deadlines and expiry dates as before. But let us remind you here that the horizontal protection of first residence has been abolished since February 2019 by the previous government. It's not going down now. He's already abolished by signature SYRIZA. There was therefore a programme which was limited to duration and implementation, but leaving thousands of debtors uncovered. Proof that only a thousand sixty-eight applications had been submitted by the end. The Government of New Democracy has managed to extend this programme and strengthen the protection of debtors by means of the “GEOFERA” programme. It is obvious from the above that the government's purpose is not to bankruptcies and liquidation, as has been mentioned in the motion of censure, but to avoid them. SYRIZA for five years has pushed the issue to the bells, as he did with citizens' debts. The New Democracy Government does not have that logic. The private debt problem is major, pressing and requires solutions immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and its staff headed by Minister Christos Stakoura in an extremely unfavourable and unpredictable context have implemented a comprehensive, prudent and costly plan to support the economy towards the coronary pandemic. Faced with these natural disasters, a new management model was launched, with immediate activation of all available financial support measures, as was done in Evia and Karditsa. It has made a series of interventions to alleviate households and businesses, reduce HPAI by 22%, and abolish it to small and remote islands, abolish the solidarity levy for 2021, reduce tax rates and insurance contributions, suspend VAT on new buildings, and more that our Minister mentioned in his speech yesterday. We trust the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Minister of Finance and the Government as a whole, that thankfully for the Greek citizens they will continue to implement their economic policy programme by ensuring a new path for the country. I urge you all to vote against the motion of censure to the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and respect for time. Mr. Nikolaos Papapas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u445	Thank you very much, Mr President. So a motion of censure, Mr Stakoura, because you are bringing the most inhumane bill from the legislative initiatives taken by this government and you have brought it in seeking to vote hidden. And a motion of censure to you personally because you are the implementation of the targeted inertia of the Greek Government in relation to the support measures in the Greek economy. And you even bring it to a time when we see your triple failure gigantic: Failed to national issues. Let us inform you that what is now apparent from Rhodes is not Zach Yv Kusthos' "Causus" which makes a new documentary on the bottom. It's "Oruts Race", which is accompanied by Turkish warfare. We thought it was an extreme statement by Mr. Gerapetritis that said the red line was six miles. But - oh of the miracle and we have not heard him correct - Mr Chrysochoidis said that more than six miles is nationalism. We sincerely hope that this declaration will be corrected, because you have to understand that the statements by government officials are also being followed on the other side. Consider what precedent is being shaped at the moment. So here I think the whole world is waiting for a clarification, an apology, a change of attitude, and I would even say to you from a parade that defended this sport during the attempt of our own to pass on the very positive agreement on national interests. It is a failure, of course, to pandemic, because we have reached almost a thousand cases, and it is 'the young people in the squares'! It is obviously not the government that has done nothing to strengthen the health system, it is obviously not the government that has canceled and the competition for the seven hundred and fifty supermodern buses, which we would have received, to come to rent inappropriately and at high price buses! The world is conspiring to go to work, and a number of people are on TV and tell him to walk. That's your policy! And, of course, reproach because in the economy you are the ones who chose to let the recession happen. You do not object to different arguments as if there were no data in the file. You've received the country in development. You turned it into a recession before the coronary. And to tell you some other elements that are relevant. We have had a reduction in private debt with our own government from 140% to 120% of GDP and a reduction in red loans from 100 to 75 billion. And now what are you doing in this recession? You are bringing a framework that will speed it up. Why and how? Because it facilitates bankruptcies and their liquidation, household and individuals' bankruptcies. Do you not understand that when an enterprise is liquidated and closed, replacement of jobs is a very difficult matter? So your choice will speed up the recession and it is clear that it is the catalyst to implement the Pissaridis project, which tells small and medium-sized 'zombies' and of course ends the protection of first residence. Stop talking about auctions in general from this one at Step here. It's tiring and underestimating the intelligence of all of us. Now, a while ago, I entered the e-actions webpage. Do you know how many auctions we have invented right now, gentlemen, that you are complaining about the auctions that took place on our own government that were not first home, but would they be about whether this monstrosity was a state law? Eighty thousand auctions are posted right now. Get on the site.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u446	You created it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u447	Eighty thousand auctions! The auctions that took place in our own governance were not the first home. Stop lying, you'll get real in the head, because you brought a monstrous feather that doesn't separate the natural person from the company. When the natural person goes bankrupt, he will be able to reboot. When the company goes bankrupt to satisfy the creditors. This is the principle of bankruptcy law that applies to the Western world, but not to Greece. You don't do that. You make a choice - and I conclude, Mr President - which seeks to bankrupt society, and this is why various centres with fanatical support from the Mitsotakis Government see it and see the signs of your destabilisation. Invite the polls. Do you realize that in all these polls, which you refer to, negative opinions about the management of the problems of the Greek people are more than positive? Have you seen that? Do you miss that element? And watch out for something else. Does it not surprise you that scripts that support you with fanaticism recycle alternative government and election scenarios? What do they say? That your command will be exhausted. And don't look at me, because you know that the next elections are just proportional and no 50 of you will be in here. That is your main problem. So, gentlemen, you know that this bill will not be the catalyst of society's bankruptcy, it will be the detonator of your own political bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u448	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Dimitris Markopoulos please come to Stepma and then Mr. Georgios Fragidis will speak from the Change Movement. Mr. Marcopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Papapas obviously forgot a small detail, that e-actions are one of the achievements of the SYRIZA, because they organized it to move quickly - quickly - the auctions, as he forgot the twenty-five thousand auctions, as he forgot the fact that they left the popular residence unprotected, as they have forgotten their former partner - because they are, so they sell their former companions - Panagiotis Lafazanis when they were slamming him to the courts. Everything forgets. As they have forgotten - and because it has always been flexible in the national approaches SYRIZA, a discussion on the nationalities, so remind you of them - that on 15-12-2017 the Turkish navy patrol performs fire on Pharmaconis in your own governance, that on 29 January 2017 there are in Imperial Turkish interventions, that on 15-2-2018 there is an inoculation of Greek port from Turkish immature. You forget all this because, of course, the years were supposed not to dare Alexis Tsipras, obviously the Turks were afraid and did not do that! So to make it clear - because Mr Papapas and Mr Ragus said so - and Mrs Auger - nationalism is the populist tooling of our country's issues. That's what Alexis Tsipras did. Do you seriously believe that the Greek people think that SYRIZA is a champion of the twelve-mile extension, Mr Ragosi? Do you really believe it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u450	Twelve miles is nationalism!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u451	Don't interrupt. None of you interrupted!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u452	Mr. Valdeen, Mr. Friend, did you hear what they said? Mr. Valdeen, who you surrounded us like a trophy of enlargement in the centre-left, said it was an irresponsible demagogue. Mr. Valdeen. That's what they said. These are your comrades. To make it clear, then, that nationalism is not the inalienable right to extend Greece to twelve miles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u453	What Chrysohoid said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u454	Personally this line was drawn by Kyriakos Mitsotakis. No one is entitled to deviate from this line. The neo-democrats are all united in what the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said. Anything else is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u455	You're emptying Mr. Chrysochoids!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u456	Also, because today we have seen some action from the French Republic, perhaps such action will inspire us and we will also see such action as regards the withdrawal of our ambassador from Turkey. These are things that are being examined. Ladies and gentlemen, in my short time, I will say that today is not a motion of censure against the excellent, prosperous and absolutely effective Minister of Finance Christos Staikoura. It's an attempt to analyze SYRIZA. Your psychodrama here we're dealing with. I won't get into what you've done, that's what I said. The e-applications you created it. Twenty-five thousand auctions were made by you. We know you, we know you. In Nice, Mr. Ragosi, Mr. Ragosi, in the second Piraeus, which we both do, there was an auction. In the folk Nice, not in Katali, you said that "we will go to the hosts, to those who have hidden offshore companies and have a home in Katali, Kolonaki, the Psychic". You've been auctioning the people's Nice. Are you also telling us about New Democracy's privileged relations with the banking area, when Christos Stagiras quite rightly said that there were signs of his bill? Let's see who had privileged relationships with the banks. Did your canalarchs have any warranties to claim television licenses? Did Mr. Paul Paulakis benefit from the Bank of Attica to get a loan - listen - 100,000 euros, when the small and medium-sized enterprises, the simple Greeks were tested because of your own capital controls? You tell me in your districts a citizen who has taken such a large personal consumer loan. May I remind you of your former Undersecretary who, despite the fact that she receives parliamentary compensation, which we all know her height during your administration to join the Katseli Act? Are these serious things? And you're acknowledging Christos Stakoura for co-operation and co-operation with the banks? You were the ones who failed to reduce HNVY, Stakoras and the Mitsotakis government reduced him. You failed to increase duty-free, Stariras and the Mitsotakis government increased it. You have failed to reduce the taxation of natural persons, the taxation of distributed profits. You failed the Greek, failed the investments, failed everywhere. Stavros brought a loan interest rate - and the government and Mr.Mitsotakis - at 1% when you and Tsakalotos were in 4%. We are the government that brought 'MICROSOT', whether you like it or not! So your failure and your psychoanalysis will not be loaded by us. That's what we didn't expect. Such an avanta was unexpected and we really thank you! And I'm closing, Mr. President. Society, ladies and gentlemen, requires us to move forward. A new period of moderation rather than polarization, as you pursue it, is evolving. Society and citizens, not us majority MPs, are going to vote against an extreme, mistaken, out-of-place and time-consuming motion of censure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u457	Thank you, Mr Marcopoulou, for keeping time. Mr. George Frangidis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, under the pretext of the government's bankruptcy bill Mr. Tsipras tabled a motion of censure with the Minister of Finance. He may try to overcome internal problems and his opposition weakness. Unfortunately, however, it gives an outlet even temporary to the government, which already receives the displeasure of the electorate, but also of its officials, for its policy on health, economic and national matters. The motion of censure against the Minister of Finance is a political hypocrisy, as in these cases, in fact, it turns into a vote of confidence in the government. I would also like to remind you that SYRIZA who uses as the opposition top the first home, since it did not vote for the 2010 PASOK law, then "forgot" to ensure its protection in the four and a half years of its governance. On the contrary, he opened the way to auctions, introduced the protests as a peculiar offence. Equally hypocritical is to table a motion of censure against a minister. The decisions on the economy are the responsibility of the government and not just the Minister. Today, if we ask a worker, an unemployed patient, will he tell us that a minister or government of Mitsotakis has responsibility? All the other Ministers are doing their job perfectly and the failed one is only Mr. Staruras? The fact is that the bankruptcy bill is revealing the social sensitivity of the New Democracy Government's conservative policy. He treats natural faces as if they were corporations. It prioritises bankruptcy, instead of supporting honest entrepreneurs who have been in difficulty. He doesn't actually give a second chance. It leaves thousands of citizens at the mercy of the banks, plunges them into existential uncertainty. All this while the pandemic creates new red loans, new armies of unemployed, newly incapacitated, leaves vulnerable groups unprotected. Gentlemen of the government, since the beginning, we have been beating you the alarm of pandemic in relation to the economy and society. We cannot in the name of initial success give you forgiveness of sins for mismanagement of phase two. How can one justify the fact that in the first eight months of 2020, 85,000 euros were given less to hospitals than the corresponding eight months of 2019 that did not exist? Coronary tests continue to be carried out without cost control and without control by the administrators in private laboratories. I mention a hospital in Thessaloniki that already gave EUR 425,000 to individuals. You have not changed the unjustified decision not to perform the AHEPA, "Papanikolaou" and "Papageorgiou" the TAVI interventions, resulting in two private clinics at a cost of EUR 15,000 or one, which means we exclude all non-existent. So, is there any seriousness? Now that the health system is in need, do you have less financial resources and do you not strengthen the structures that are being called upon to bear the greatest burden of pandemic? You opened tourism without safety. You've embedded slackness signals. You have not implemented early prevention measures, such as 'the mask everywhere'. You have a great responsibility for double messages, for the lack of information for citizens, for the absence of prevention. You did not involve all health, primary care, medical clubs, pharmacists, "Help at Home", all structures - public and private - in the fight against information, prevention and treatment of pandemic. It's not enough Mr. Chardalia's daily monologue. In tourism, which supports the Greek economy, the problems are huge: small tourist season, low levels of detail, poor revenues, tourist businesses that have closed or are failing, thousands of workers in unemployment, seasonally uncovered workers. The lack of liquidity ‘strangles’ business and the risk of leaving the hotels in place of a lentil is now visible. You also apply the doctrine 'half the job, half the wage.' Promote the few in each of your legislatures, level the middle class. Suffice first-time allowances and do not create conditions of recovery in the market. You are counting everything on the recovery fund's money without a medium-term plan. You have presented no plan and no mechanism for making use of this money. Your policy is unrelenting, ignorant, with amateur improvisations. Finally, this is also evident in the way you handle national issues. There is no national line to deal with Turkish provocativeness. Exercise secret diplomacy, secretly from all domestic political forces. The European sanctions against Turkey have been referred to the bells. You've delayed the equipment. You don't have a serious plan for the defence industry. The Change Movement has made a series of targeted and timely interventions and proposals to support tourism, work, business and the use of the Recovery Fund. Unfortunately, you ignore them. For all this, therefore, we are not just the Minister of Finance but the entire government as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr. Francis. Mrs Stergianis Biziou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, Mr Tsipras' inability to rally his party has been visible. With this in mind, it was expected to launch a fireworks as the motion of censure in order to change the agenda. With top executives of the Officerial Anti-Civilization now turning openly against him, with society boiling down that, with their own legislative initiatives, criminal organisations fall into the soft, with the internal dead ends of his party becoming a riot over his presidential chair, chose at this time when the coronary pandemic peaks and the challenges from the east front escalate, to turn against our Government. But we thank you. Thank you for giving the Greek people the opportunity once again to compare our policy and your policy. It is obvious, perhaps understandable, that the SYRIZA Chief's attempt to preserve his name from the accusations he has been made by former and current associates. The incomprehensibility is that he chose this bill to testify to the motion of distrust. In my village we say: "In the house of the hanged man they do not speak of rope". Let us remember some of your policies. Over twenty - five thousand auctions have been held in your day. In 2017 the auctions increased by 64% compared to 2016, while in 2018 they increased by 185% compared to 2017. Most of the houses that came out in the hammer were mainly first homes, several of which are located in the people's districts of Athens, such as Nice and Moschato. You have been the protector of the poor, true Robin Hood! The world felt on what "no house in the hands of a banker" means! Your days were institutionalized to prosecute those who prevented auctioning. In your day it was agreed to sell red loans to funds. Since February 2019 you left the first residence unprotected. Let us now look at our own policies. Our programme "GEOFYRA" has restored substantial protection and this is demonstrated by the number of applications submitted. One hundred and thirty - one thousand fifty - five applications within fifty eight days. We practically show our support for those who are truly vulnerable, giving dignity and not charity. How? With the grant of the first home loan, we are able to save the home, but we are also encouraging the debtor to be consistent with his obligations. This is at the level of settlement of debts. For the liquidity stage and when auctioning is inevitable, we enable the debtor to remain in his residence for a period of 12 years, paying a rent, but being subsidised by the state, while at the same time maintaining the right to buy his home. From the previous government, we inherited a regime that left the first residence unprotected. We are bringing in a programme of support that differs from all previous ones, because it is now a permanent social welfare programme, with effective and practical protection of the first home and not an extraordinary and fragmentary programme. What, though, is the private debt situation we are trying to order today and where have you inherited us, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? According to official data from the Bank of Greece, the High Authority of Public Income and EKKA, the total private debt amounts to EUR 234 billion and while in the last decade to deal with private debt and protect the first residence a number of instruments, laws and regulations were established, a viable and definitive solution was not given to a large part of the debtors outside of any regulation or cover that could serve his safe and smooth service. These arrhythmias are coming to heal the bill you're fighting for. It is a bill that is systematic and coherent, which universally settles the question of private debt, putting an end to the confusion between the diffuse provisions and the abstractions. Tools are introduced to reduce private debt in a rational manner, achieving a balance between economic and social parameters. It gives the possibility of prudential restructuring of debts and where this is not possible, the debtor may resort to the bankruptcy procedure. I've been listening over the last few days to all the SYRIZA officials saying the bill is bankrupt. No matter what you lie, the truth will appear in practice. This bill offers the choice of a bankruptcy which relieves the debtor definitively from his debts. What bothers you is that we offer a bankruptcy procedure different from the one we have known to date, because it is geared to the second opportunity, to the opportunity of reintegration into economic life. We are not punishing failure, we do not keep the bankrupt bonding of his debts for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, the Code of Debt Settlement and the Provision of Second Opportunities is a piece of legislation that treats debtors with justice and equality, a reform legislation that manages the problem of the country's private debt overall and coherently, focusing on the most important of all goods, the dignity of the debtor. And that is exactly what explains the rabies reactions to this bill, because it gives a real way out to the armour of private debt. But you want the citizen to be a hostage of your charity, demanding your benefits. This bill is the "floorstone" of your policies and you cannot take it. We are voting in favour of the bill and we support the Minister of Finance Christos Stakoura. We are voting against SYRIZA's motion of censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mrs. Bisew. The last speaker for today is Mr Angelos Tsigris from New Democracy. Please, tomorrow the Parliamentary Representatives will help to keep the five-minute period, because how many more people will speak depends on the five-minute period. There are too many speakers left. Here, Mr. Cigri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been 15 months since the New Democracy was elected government and we have a rich account. This government majority has voted for more than a hundred bills and has done the ratification of dozens of international agreements. At the same time, however, more than one hundred bills deal with growth, new jobs, the strengthening of social cohesion. At the same time, we voted for a generous package of fifty-nine measures of support for households and businesses, so that Greek citizens can stand up, but also for the Greek economy, of more than 24 billion euros. These measures are economic measures, which are mainly tax relief, which was unreasonablely burdened by the shoulders of the Greek taxpayer. The list has no end. Where should I start? From a 22% reduction in the tax exemption for each child, from the fall in corporate taxation to 24%, from the reduction in the taxation of natural persons? To go through strengthening the homeless and the abused women - as if we had not had so far abused women and homeless in the country - and extending the heating allowance? It's winter coming. I should like to talk about the reduction of insurance contributions to the private sector, about the relaunching of the building, since there is a suspension of VAT and the payment of a birth allowance to a old Greece, which in 2050 will have less than eight million Greeks, when we are being put from the east and not just our borders. In this juncture, all polls show a government that the vast majority of Greek citizens trusted, and if 40% would vote on it next Sunday, a balance of 25% with 30% - impressive and unprecedented for Greece of postmopulation - trusts it for the governance of the country. At this juncture we chose to take our eyes off. And tell you what they say in our villages. At this juncture we have chosen to divide and come into conflict, to oppose. Ladies and gentlemen, I am mistrusted by the motion of censure because it is impeccable. Because today Greece is threatened and we must be united as ever. Because today the world is testing an unprecedented health crisis, and we are living days, which sometimes seem to us to be living in a dream and we should be more wise with the head and the mood for work, but also with the understanding. I stand up for the motion of censure, because it is bad, because you are not hitting the Minister of Finance. If you want, hit the Prime Minister. But where to strike a Prime Minister who has never been such a popularity 15 months after the election, not only in Greek data but also in the wider European and international. And you're targeting the Minister of Finance. It's splitting, because it divides the Greeks. But it is inconsistent with the European and international example. Since the pandemic has erupted, there has been no motion of censure against a minister or against a government beyond a state. We're the second one. We're dinging that in the crisis we're being eaten between us. But they are also contrary to the Greek public opinion, because Greek citizens trust the Minister of Finance and economic policy. Not because they love him or because they know him, because he's from Lamia. We know him, of course, because he is half of Achaia, because he has married a woman from Patras. We also know the man beyond the politician. But do you know why they trust him? Because they trust the Government of New Democracy. They trust the Prime Minister who chose him for this post. They trust the data we get from the statistics every day and trust the smile that has bloomed before on the lips of the Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr. Cigri. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-24-S1-commons.u464	With the consent of the House at 23:38, the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Sunday, October 25, 2020 at 9:00, on the subject of the House's work: the continuation of the debate and the roll-call vote on the motion of censure against the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, submitted by the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance Alexis Tsipras and eighty five Members of the Parliamentary Group, in accordance with articles 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
