ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 29-5-2020 mandate, the PN's minutes of Friday 29 May 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PN's minutes on Friday, 29 May 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Structure (a) of 13.4.2020 P.N. "Measures to address the ongoing consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and other emergency provisions" (A'84) and (b) of 1.5.2020 P.M.P. ‘Reader measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic and the return to social and economic normality’ and other provisions’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that in his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed today are as follows: The Questions Nos 728-25/2020 and 729-25/20 will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos. The Questions Nos 719-22/5/2020, 725-24/5/202020, 726-24/5/2020 and 742-25/5/20 will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. The question under number 738-25/2020 and Question 5583-7/20 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Theodoros Dollakis. Before we begin, I would ask you to be consistent in your time with regard to questions - the time of the question is two minutes with a small tolerance - but also with regard to the answers so that we can finish quickly because there are too many questions. So we begin with our second question under number 728/25-5-2020, first question from the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The change in the criteria and the increase in the total amount of repayable advance payments available to enterprises". The Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, will answer. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, according to the HSY and GSEE almost eight out of ten companies are completely excluded from the liquidity tools that the government has so far announced. I am mainly talking about TEIX II and the Guarantee Fund. You said on Friday that 800 million have been disbursed through TEPIX II without anyone knowing who has gone and what criteria. At the same time, the government says it will build an ex-post liquidity observatory to see where the money went. As you know, in TPIX II, banks were asked either collateralists or even 100% cash collectives to forbid any request made by a small and medium-sized businessman. The criteria for banking information, insurance information and tax information shall be the result of unwitting obstacles to the majority of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. Unfortunately, the New Democracy has forgotten that entrepreneurship and the professionals have lived five years in tax latitude, unfortunately making it a reality to leave some unfulfilled obligations. Since, therefore, in the repayable advance of any of these, tax, insurance and banking information, it is not a prerequisite and all enterprises and non-sufficient ones can join, as the conditions for low-interest repayment are favourable, it is a measure that could really help and is in practice the only way of supporting the small and medium-sized enterprise today from the state to avoid ‘luket’. Of course, in the first phase, as you said, 580 million was allocated to some fifty thousand five hundred businesses. About a hundred thousand operations have been blocked. Individual enterprises with no staff could not participate. The returnee in the first phase was given 50 days after the vote and almost two weeks after the market had been opened, and it was necessary as a working capital to enable the professionals to pay off the undeclared goods and to obtain goods for the new season and the relaunch of the market. Because you understand that stores without merchandise are closed shops. So I ask you, Minister: will you include individual businesses without staff with the aid beneficiaries by reducing the minimum rates of reduction in revenue and taking into account both April and May in the time when this is going to be a factor of comparison? Secondly, given that the aid to be directed to small and medium-sized enterprises is covered by NSRP resources for the repayable advance by ERAEC, will you increase to at least EUR 3 billion the total amount available, but prioritising those who have not received any aid, either from the first phase of a repayable advance or from liquidity instruments through banks? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, the government has shown that it is dealing with the consequences of the coronary pandemic with responsibility and effectiveness. It is shown that it has a comprehensive plan to support the economy, a coherent and dynamic project. A plan unfolding methodically and efficiently and decisively, with significant forward actions in four phases, with key objectives of strengthening public health, strengthening business liquidity, strengthening employees' available income and social cohesion. A key pillar of support for enterprises in the current phase of the crisis was indeed the measure of the repayable advance. I will speak in my protology about returnable deposit 1 and then on repayable advance 2, giving much more information. This measure, which was directly adopted by the European Commission, mainly addressed small and medium-sized enterprises and concerned all sectors of the economy affected. It was basically aimed at supporting businesses that, as you quite rightly said, do not have access to bank lending so that they can keep jobs. It protected workers, since the recipient companies are obliged to maintain the same number of staff for seven months. It provides a grace period until the end of 2021 and then forty equal instalments at very low interest rates. And funding is inconsistent, tax-free and unreasonable. That's the data. The crucial question is: did the measure succeed? And the answer is: yes, the measure has succeeded. In more than fifty thousand businesses, as you quite rightly said, substantial sums of money amounted to EUR 580 million, i.e. on average around EUR 11 000 per company. Now listen to the statistics, which we are presenting for the first time. Of these, seven thousand four hundred thirty-seven businesses have no workers, twenty-nine thousand sixty-four companies have from one to five employees and eleven thousand two hundred eleven businesses have six to twenty employees. In other words, to say it at percentage levels, 58% of all the aided enterprises have one to five employees. So we just touched the little entrepreneurship. 94% has up to 20 workers, proving that we have also helped small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, companies from one to fifty employees, which accounted for 84% of the beneficiaries, shared 80% of the total amount. Thus, small and medium-sized enterprises have received very large amounts as a whole. You know that the fact that some undertakings did not state, while they were rightful, is not a matter for the Greek Government. This is a question of any commitments he wants to take on any business. As far as we could reach the seventy thousand businesses. The other companies that they had reported were profitable companies, because the figures were in March. Because, as you quite rightly said, we had to run quickly to disbursement as soon as possible, because there is a whole process, a mechanism and two stages in which companies should declare their wish to participate in this programme. In addition, as you rightly said, in the Capital Aid Programme, despite any problems, they have today been approved - this is the verb that I used - and not disbursed, allocations of EUR 800 million in twenty days' time when 200 million in ten months had been approved in TEPIX I. It's a big difference. All of this is essential support for the company's liquidity, but to the extent of the country's budgetary and, above all, the country's cash potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you are very experienced and you know that several times where the numbers prosper. In this case, professionals and entrepreneurs are probably unhappy. I remember very well that when you presented the government's relief measures, you were talking about a grid of protection covering seven hundred thousand businesses and professionals and to the extent of the return of an advance that is without tax, insurance and banking information, we have fifty-one thousand businesses. So this should probably concern us. I would like to believe that in the second phase - and I look forward to your reply - the maintenance clause will remain and the weight of the wage cost factor will be increased for the sums paid by businesses. Therefore, companies that did not suspend contracts of employment will also be rewarded. And here it is worth wondering, because the Guarantee Fund with its 7 billion global leverage goes on to 80 % guaranteed loans from the public inhibition of the employment conservation clause. You should see the incentive, which has probably acted as a stimulus, for tax control, and you should clarify exactly what you mean when you talk about control. Do you mean regular checks or evidence that they do work and have not reduced their staff? You know very well that according to GATT, one out of seven companies will be in danger of closing the next period. In other words, we are talking about two hundred and fifty thousand jobs which are currently 'in the air'. We also call for TEIX II, as far as it is concerned, and for the Guarantee Fund to be redefined. But why are we asking for this? Because on the basis of the report of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, in 2019, 2/3 of the loans disbursed in the country are linked to the European Investment Bank Group's financial instruments in similar procedures. We had a positive rate of credit expansion, but, above all, the big companies and the positive net bank financing flow came entirely from that to the large companies, EUR 1.5 billion, while the flow toward small and medium-sized enterprises was negative by EUR 213 million. Of course, the disbursements of new loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, which we are debating today, are unfortunately falling short of the repayments of their existing debts to the public. In real terms the loan rate is from 3.38% to 3.99%, the largest in the Eurozone, based on the data of the Governor of the Bank of Greece a month and a half ago as notified to us. In the same report, in the SAFE survey, 15% of enterprises have not applied for a fear that they will be rejected, the main problem is that 21% of access to external financing for Greek enterprises is prioritised and the percentage of requests for companies to meet loans from banks in Greece is 45%, compared with 72% in the Eurozone. So we have an obvious liquidity shortage and we have a risk of losing jobs with a recession in the economy. So, Minister, it is a purely political decision of your own, if you will give further resources to the repayable advance that, based on everything I mentioned before, is objectively the only tool that the Greek state has today to support small and medium-sized enterprises, if it really wants to give them the very critical phase of a rescue plan, recognising their far-reaching titanic struggle in the crisis and in SYRIZA's five-year tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u8	Mr Colleague, we are both parliamentarians in the province and in fact in our law we have small and medium-sized enterprises. I am sure that you, too, have walked in the streets of your prefecture and you have found that several small businesses have received substantial sums of money from the repayable advance. The measure therefore worked. So large, directly and in this way public money has never been allocated to Greece. They were never granted by the State of EUR 600 million in about one month. However, in order to be disbursed quickly, the information available was only available in March, so it was not possible for many other companies to enter the perimeter of the first repayable advance. The procedures for the second phase of the repayable advance amounting to approximately EUR 1.4 billion are now under way. So it's more than twice the first phase. The aim is that the programme should be put into effect in the first quarter of June, i.e. this month, and that the amounts should be paid to the beneficiaries until the beginning of July. The new programme will, in fact, involve a much larger number of firms, because it will incorporate the figures in March and the figures in April and May which have been much larger in many more companies. Furthermore, as you rightly say, the periphery of enterprises that have the right to participate in the support scheme will also be extended to include companies that had not entered the first phase. All companies will be able to participate, regardless of legal form. In this context, the inclusion of specific cases of individual undertakings which do not employ staff but are active in need of support will also be considered. We're looking to figure out how to do this. I appreciate that by next week this will be announced. The companies that received a loan during the first phase of the repayable advance will also be able to participate, provided that new data for the months April and May confirm this reduction in turnover. However, the amount that they are entitled to receive will be deducted from the amount they have already received so that there are no two measures and two weights with the new companies that will enter and have not received funding in the first phase. At the same time, as you mentioned, because you have also covered all the liquidity of the companies that are of major importance to pass on with the least possible economic impact on the health crisis - the tools of interest subsidy, capital movement, guarantee mechanisms, forming and logically by the end of the week or at the beginning of the next week will come a bill to the House of a new institutional framework for credits to small enterprises, and also will be generously reduced, as we have already said, and the advance payment of tax to the firms affected. In your prototype, you said we forgot about entrepreneurship. You cannot tell a government which reduced the tax on businesses to 24% before the coronary crisis. So we hadn't forgotten about entrepreneurship at all. As far as the banking system as a whole is concerned, there is an estimate that there will be a net credit extension of EUR 15 billion, as the Governor of the Bank of Greece said last week in the House. All of this constitutes substantial support, strengthening business liquidity. We're here to keep supporting. We are, however, looking forward to - and I stress this - that companies, too, will make good use of government support with responsibility and will take their own share of responsibility so that we can all manage it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u9	We continue with our second question under No 729/25-5-2020 on the second question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vasilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Declaration industry'. This timely question will also be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stagios. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, first of all I would like to return to you the reproach you made from the Step of the House - to the extent that we were concerned - that we are not dealing with the EAB for which you have brought regulation and dealt with the FRAPORT and I do not know what else you have said. I must inform you that in the past few days the Change Movement with a set of officials, both from the Defence Sector and from the Parliamentary Group, visited the facilities of both the Greek Air Industry and the Greek Defence Systems. We talked with the administrations, with the employees' representatives, with the executives of the company, we saw the implementation of the programs closely, and I must tell you that, in fact, OAW - and I am starting with the OAW - is doing a very important job involving both the Greek Armed Forces, the Hellenic Air Force and the programs it implements on behalf of other countries. It is an advanced penitentiary of our high-tech industry, which needs support and liberation, I would say from the hard, tight embrace of the Ministry of Finance. In particular, because publicity must also be combined with the possibility of competitiveness, these companies - both - must, of course, have those guarantees relating to public control, and if you want me to say so in particular, and the single wage as established, but as a basis. In addition to this, there should be the possibility that the administrations and thus the Ministry of Finance may conclude collective agreements with workers for the additives required, both in terms of wages and in terms of non-wage labour. It has recently happened that a major problem has to do with the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work involving both companies. The regulation gives you a new framework for a medium-term one, it is not a definitive solution and, Minister, I have discussed it closely and created more problems. We have tabled an amendment to you, which simply said that the administrations are, of course, covered for the reimbursement of benefits up to now, both to the OSH and to the OSH, and that these benefits continue to be paid, including the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy labour, until the issue of the OSH. The CSR may be issued within a month, in two months, in three months - it depends on the government's intention - so that the transitional stage is terminated. What are you doing now? You're putting in an intermediate stage. Poor thing. You are creating, in our view, a problem where there is no problem. So I want you to tell us in your answer what you intend to do in relation to both NSAs and the problem that exists in ODA. You should tell us, if there is an operational plan for NDA and NSA and we have not met in our discussions so far and, of course, what you will do about a problem specific to NSAs with eleven fired from the previous government for purely political and party reasons. This government must keep its word, which has given it an election, to re-enter them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u11	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, thank you very much for your question. This is an opportunity, because you are referring to other assets, to allow me to give my prototype a little bit, to refer to the other assets in general, and to focus on EAB in my dentistry. Your question, however, is a good opportunity to become a brief but substantial, documented and realistic one - I stress it - a dialogue on the wider issue of the defence industry in our country. And the current health crisis may have us all in some way, but the debate on such a matter is neither vague nor unreasonable. This is because the defence industry, apart from its self-evident public interest, is also a key pillar of the national economy. We therefore have a duty specifically to the defence industry as a state to support it. The current government does not close its eyes in front of the problems, nor does it kick them down or hide them under the carpet. He chooses the difficult way to solve them. The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the relevant ministries for 11 months, has been working methodically and seriously in order to correct existing overtime distortions and to support businesses. However, it is simply support for sound foundations not only does not bring about the slightest positive result, but, on the contrary, valuable public resources are lost, which are not unlimited. That is why our plan aims at both the short-term strengthening of the defence industry and its development. Let us speak specifically on the basis of your entire question. When we took over the Treasury, we found an ELVO in a weather situation. You didn't mention it, but it's in your question, and I have to tell you where we are. We met all the fair demands of her staff trying to create a safety net above the employees given the company's situation. At the same time, the competitive process, which has two important conditions, which were not in the past: the right of the public to participate in the new ELVO up to 21% and the obligation of candidates to submit business plans for the company, what you requested of other companies. Unfortunately, as I said before, they were neither self-evident nor were they in previous procedures. The health crisis has necessarily been blocked in the tender procedure only in procedural terms as a result of failure to operate the courts. However, strong foundations and clear terms have been laid, and this gives prestige and credibility to the whole process, which will proceed as soon as possible, in accordance with the legal possibilities available. Second asset you mentioned are the Scaramaga shipyards. For the Skaramaga shipyards it is the government's sincere decision to ensure that the national defence is shielded and to address both the complex problem of the operation of the shipyards and the existing loose ends vis-à-vis the European Commission. Despite the advent of the unprecedented pandemic and the restrictive measures taken in our country, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the relevant Ministry of Environment and Energy, Citizens' Protection, Development and Investment, continues to work towards the implementation of the law procedures adopted by this government, under Law 4664/2020, taking initiatives at political and administrative level. Finally, two words about NSAs. Although the Ministry of Finance does not supervise, as you know, the NSAs are in constant communication and monitor the company's overall course, providing financial support when required and justified. On staff issues, you know that when there is a case-law or justice, the principle of separation of powers, but also respect for justice, do not allow legislative or administrative intervention. I'll talk about the NSA in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u13	Me, too. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I was going to do what you said in your first talk. You reversed the order of debate. It is, however, within the wider context of the country's needs to support and develop the National Defence Industry. Of course, within the general national defence industry it is both state-owned and private companies, which are active at the same time, but in this case, we are talking about state. Minister, there's an anti-corruption in relation to NSAs and NSAs. You said that. The shares of both companies I think they're in the Treasury. But, for NSAs, it's the Department of Defence and the DAC policy you, the Ministry of Finance, have it. I think we need to see, within a single framework, the operational plans of the state-owned industries. There can be no different centres for the same object. So I think that we should start from there. Is there a development plan for ODA? The ODA is currently implementing important programmes, but of course, it needs support, in order to be able to complete them in time, in the timetables, in order to be able to take on others. In particular, we must remind ourselves and say proudly that the P-3B programme, maritime cooperation planes, implements the F-16 upgrade programme, based on the last agreement, maintains all the means of flight, C-130, helicopters. But, Minister, it cannot open its wings with 2,5-3 euros overtime. You can't do that. It is not possible with the single payroll that the official who sits at the office takes the qualified electronic person, who was now - he was in front of us, we saw - making the F-16 standard, which is going to the United States at the end of the year to be certified in order to upgrade the rest. You can't do that. We need to take care of the workers' wages, on a real basis. There should be the possibility of recruiting staff. Unfortunately, staff cannot be recruited. Now there has been a notice and 40% or 60% - I am not sure - of those who are already employed are already working in ODA, but on other programmes based on five-year contracts, that is, the notice paid about half. If there is no second shift, the C-130 will not be maintained. We have to say there's a problem with C-130. The previous period had left the matter to his luck. Now, at the moment, they have also stated a failure to serve the EAW. That's what you're looking at. I don't want to have any more public debate about this. There is a huge problem of transport operations and there should be a direct possibility and recruitment of staff and a second shift to implement the programmes in a timely manner and to undertake additional work. So did the NSAs. What are the NSAs doing? They have the know-how for all classic ammunition, so to speak. Nuclear wars and everything else, chemicals, etc. to give and take to other countries, however, the production of this material from NSAs and demand has for the whole world, but also for Greece. I will tell you this: they must be facilitated, so that what is required, namely the strengthening of the country's defence deterrent capacity, is done in a short time, through national means, not to address other countries. We do not have to address other countries, since we have these possibilities before us. I must tell you that the workers are disappointed, because for many years now they have not visited any political leadership in the facilities of neither the OSH nor the OSH. If you had gone, you would have had a different picture of both production capacity and executives themselves and of how the government should support these two defence industries. Look at the detail I'm telling you, which is not a detail. It's very serious. At the same time, with publicity, there must also be growth on the basis of competitiveness, which means collective agreements, wages and flexible procedures in relation to programmes, so that they can be implemented. For the shipyards you mentioned, we have given a temporary solution in the past few days to pay the workers. The programmes are not complete and we should, above all, see where there is interest in investors, how we facilitate the procedures. They're investors' decisions. That is where we must not interfere. But to make it easier for the investors' procedures to proceed with the agreements and to have a different development situation over the shipyards. In particular, there has been a lot of discussion about the Elefsina shipyard, there have been specific problems. Everything in the power of the government - because it is not all in its power - to do so, in order to move on to the next day, always with the guarantee of workers who have the expertise, and of course, they have the right to success, regardless of who gets the company. For ELVO, this is an important issue in progress. I believe, because this is the last chance, that this opportunity for ELVO will not end up fruitless, because it will be very difficult. In this case too, however, I think there are always solutions. I want to tell you that on Wednesday I will have the same conversation with the Minister of Defence. I also asked the Minister for Defence, because I really want to have a complete picture of both ministries. You have to stay in the budgets, budgets and the rest, and the Ministry of Defence will have to take care of them, not to make a ball of every issue between the two ministries. To have a single centre for operational planning, for the Defence Industry and, of course, for the financial rules from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u16	Mr Colleague, thank you again very much for your question. I want at regular intervals, as I have done and chose to do it myself, without question, to inform you about the Defence Industry, because I believe too much in the need for its development. I told you about ELVO. I believe that the procedure would have been completed if we had not had the coronary pandemic. You know that there were final dates that were made public, that were also invited to newspapers, but with closed courts it could not be completed. For the Scaramaga Shipyards, I think I've answered you. Despite the pandemic of the Koronioi, we are working with the other Ministries in order to move forward on the basis of the provisions that have already been passed by the Greek Parliament. As far as ODA is concerned, I would like to tell you that I am personally communicating with the workers while no previous Minister has contacted them. Getting out of here, I'm going to my office where I have the employees' representatives. In the tenth month, I think we've done a lot of things, and we've backed up a lot of the business. The company was, in principle, excluded from the obligation to produce evidence of tax information. We have come out of a very big problem, which was the collector's bucket, seeking the company to step on its own feet. We prevented financial strangulation, providing valuable time to settle customs loose ends of the past. You know we got all this. We have legislated on an expeditious and worthwhile recruitment process. Indeed, in these days, what the Greek Government voted at the end of the year is being completed. The choices of expertise were made by the management of the company, the previous management of the company we found and the recruitments made by the company, that is, management and employees, to know what we're talking about. We have stirred up chronic bleeding in personnel by excluding staff from mobility and we have decided that legality and transparency in labour relations are strictly respected. I would stress: legality and transparency. There is no tolerance or tolerance in gray zones that honor neither of us nor the company nor the workers. The rightful money must be received by the workers so that there is no indebtedness constantly with public operating and control mechanisms, which are doing their job properly and operate on the basis of the principle of legality. The introduction of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work is the practical proof of the Ministry of Finance that the Ministry not only takes the initiative to provide solutions and to restore fair demands, but also that the incorporation and respect of the law, rules and order are major issues for the state. But at the same time, from the outset, we have tabled a plan which does not lose a single euro from the total amount that the workers receive today in a blurred landscape. At the same time, however, EAW should proceed with the collective negotiations that you mentioned since 2018, when the previous collective agreement ended. Really, where's the collective agreement for two years? Today, therefore, because I have a meeting, I have received a text from the Hellenic Air Industry Association of Workers dated 1-6-2020 and says that following a message from the Ministry of Finance to the employees at the EAA, the Ministry of Finance is coming to be the expeditor on a matter that they should have been the same, on non-wage benefits. Workers accept as a basis for discussion the collective bargaining, which is the choice number three. It's a series of choices made by the state and the Treasury and not the vice versa. So we are here to work on the company's uploading next to the overwhelming many employees who do not participate in toys, in reasonable and fair conditions. Support for the Defence Industry and its employees by the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance is proven. In that spirit we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the first with number 719/25-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charalambos (Haris) Mamoulaki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aid for the absorption of Public Gas (DEP) International by the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company (EEA). Mr Constantine Hatzidakis will reply to the timely question by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Minister, as you know, the separation of PPAs into PPAs for Trading and Networks was envisaged by Law 4643/2019, with a view, of course, to making an optimal adjustment to European directives and, essentially, to the harmonisation of European directives to distinguish the activities of energy companies - the unbundling - and the entry of the strategic investor on the trading side. The design of the previous government was twofold, on the one hand, to maintain public control in the PPA and the commercial side, but, on the other, to be able to finance difficult research projects, such as EastMed, for example, which requires resources, takes time and painful effort to get to a stage in the realization of this great project, but it is quite difficult to achieve and mature it. So the current government comes and privatises the Networks' PCP and actually raises a serious issue in relation to the maturation I mentioned earlier. In Law No 4685-2020 and more specifically in Article 131, there is actually an attempt to overcome the deadlock. I imagine that in your attempt to overcome this difficulty and dystomia, you have moved on to the transfer of the publicly owned participation of the IPCC of Internationals to the EDN. I would stress that the EDPS is an independent body supervising the supervision of hydrocarbons, mining and, in general, the presence of the deposits. The question therefore also arises that the legislator, namely you, anticipate the acquisition of the shares of the Greek State by the Greek State, without any specific provision for the timetable and valuation - I am standing in the valuation - of the fair value of these assets. So my question, Minister, is based on two strands: firstly, what do you intend to do to avoid cases of conflicts of interest - conflict of interest - between the EDPS and the companies that are currently involved or in the future in research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons through their joint participation in projects such as EastMed? Secondly and equally importantly, what procedure does the Greek State intend to proceed with the acquisition of the share of ELPE to the company DEPA International? What is the timetable and what is the process of valuing the fair value of these assets by the Greek State, so of course no damage arises, so also liability for the public interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for having been time-consuming. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u20	In the government's programming statements, we had made it clear, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's aim is to privatise the PPA at 100% and then proceeded with a law that passed here last November on privatisation in two packages of the PPA and the PPA. Of course, since then, it had been cleared up - and this was then acted - that the International Criminal Tribunal would have had a different luck. It was obviously not to be privatised and decided in the last law, Law No 4685, that it was part of the ERC as an original subsidiary. It is a distinct government policy that differs from SYRIZA's policy, which predicted the 14% privatisation of the IPCC. In this context, what I have explained here and when the law was passed, i.e. the public will buy the share of the ELPEs in a short time and then obviously the IPTO of Internationals will be public by 100%. What is this different from SYRIZA's policy? SYRIZA would have kept the infrastructures. There would have been a private person, who would have 14%, who would have 35% of ELPEs, from this 35% private person, who is currently in ELPE, would have about half, i.e. 14% plus 16% of the private at the International Investment Fund in SYRIZA, would have 30%. SYRIZA, therefore, - and this is a little strange - who, for the International Bank of Infrastructure, would have the International Bank of Greece foresaw that 30% of individuals would be involved, forever, in the control of us who, for a transitional period, would have the same individual, namely the ELPEs, to have 35%, of whom less than half. That's what this is about. It will be regulated in the next period, but from your point of view, I really have to say, Mr Mamulaki, that I am surprised. What do you want to do? Review of the New Democracy? What's the point of view? From the point of view of safeguarding public interests and public participation, our solution is clearer than yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u22	First of all, Minister, I do not know whether you understood the content and substance of the question, because I said that it is of a dual nature. I will return to that, because the question today is to give answers. As you well know, the NSA is a body of the Greek State that has supervisory provision and supervision for the development of projects and not only. The fact that you have recently taken a piece of legislation, Mr.4685, as I have told you, that you should link the EDPS to the ELPE itself, where the Greek State has of course, but there are also private individuals, you realize that it creates a conflict of interest, and that is what I come back and I put it back to you on the table. I understand the need to solve a problem, but with this legislative intervention you do not just solve it, but there is a risk - and here I want to stand - of insulting the public interest. You know, I heard you mention the time majority of your position once again on the issue of the SYRIZA government's plan in the past or your plan. Minister, today you are not calling on to answer whether the New Democracy or SYRIZA plan to expand the use of natural gas for the exploitation of hydrocarbons is better. Today, you are asked to answer whether you as Minister have taken the necessary steps to shield the public interest. You are here today to answer as Minister that you have anticipated - in the context of your capabilities and responsibilities - the implementation of your own plan, and if you have really been able to understand that, in order to maintain its independence, the EDAS cannot be a'shipper' of other companies and in particular private companies. Publicity must be retained, in particular, non-connection, because that is the big problem with DEPA, that is, the trade part with the EES. They are two distinct entities and in the way in which you legislated, we consider that there is a problem and that is why we are asking you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u24	Indeed, what surprises me, Mr Mamulaki, is how you claim there is a conflict of interest, a conflict of interest, as you said, in our case where the ELPEs remain within the ICCM for a few months, while there was no connection of interest in your case where the ELPEs would remain forever. How do you judge things like that? It really amazes me! I repeat once again that in the next few months there will be an valuation, there will be a reasonable price in the ordinary procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u25	When? Tell us a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u26	Obviously, I cannot tell you that it will take place on 5 July at 8 p.m., but the two sides have already been consulted and will proceed to the next few months, taking into account many different circumstances. All this will be done transparently, with legality, based on all the principles of the rule of law. This action will be done, the public will have 100% of the shares in the EDN, which will also be a purely public undertaking. That is what I can tell you, and I hope that you will come to the authority to think again about privatising it. What else can I tell you, if you want to have some individuals?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u27	I don't want private. Answers I want to have.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u28	I've answered your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fourth under No 725/24-05-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Environmental destruction on the beach of Koukounaries by tourist business". Mr Constantine Hatzidakis will reply to the timely question by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, when TIADED sold "XENIA" to the Koukounaries of Skiathos in 2014, it said that this process of divestment of public land would lead to the upgrading of the country's tourism product by the emergence of luxurious hotel units. What happened in practice? We have a businessman who has closed off access to the beaches - has accepted the city's lawsuit - cuts the pine cones in Strofy, the protected species in the Red Book of the European Union and replaces them with olives, ploughs on the beaches, has a pipeline that empties effluent on the beaches and prohibits access to public land, which he stalks and so on. That was the growth model that this divestment brought. The questions of the municipality, Minister, are very simple. The municipality shall request an environmental inspection throughout the hotel complex as a whole in respect of compliance with the required environmental conditions, control of the distances from the cavalry zone, control of compliance with the necessary protection measures and enhancement of the natural wealth of the ecosystem in the area and control of any environmental damage caused by part of the protected forest of Kokounaria, energising the responsible SIGAP and taking into account that the forest referred to is considered to be a natural resource of the highest environmental value at national and European level. The question is - because this letter has been sent to you for over a month and a half - what has been done, what have you done with the Ministry's services in what changes have they made? What are you going to do against those operators who take the public land and use it exclusively in terms that have arisen through your own environmental bill, exclusively for the same and to the detriment of the public?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u32	Mr Arsenis, the government is obviously in favour of investment, but under no circumstances is it in favour of environmentally damaging investments. The case is quite complicated, in that the information collected by the Ministry by the various co-authorities at local level is contradictory, i.e. at another wavelength is the reply of the Port Authorities, at another wavelength, to the reply of the Forest and another wavelength of the HYDOM, to the building service. But I would like to say how the matter is so that we can try to get a little more light on this case. Our aim is obviously to shed light on the case until the end and to resolve the issue on the basis of the principles imposed by both Union and national legislation. At the heart of this specific question is an important investment, we must say, a few years ago in the Skiathos Koukounaries with a renovation of the former "XENIA" hotel coming from TIADE. In fact, there was an ESRBA, a special spatial development project of public property, which was approved by a presidential decree in January 2015. Both in the Presidential Decree approving the ECHR and in the relevant joint ministerial decision approving the urban study have laid down specific conditions for managing neighbouring forest areas and the use of the sanctuary - beach, which ensures the protection of the forest environment and ensure free access to the coastal front. Obviously these conditions must be respected and we must ensure that they are complied with. The total area of the property in which the investment was carried out is about sixty-five thousand square metres, and use of land and conditions for construction by zones were determined. The area to be built is Zone 1, while Zone 2 is defined as an area of protection and enhancement of the environment and the natural landscape and consists of areas of a forest character where forest character and natural embodiment are maintained and any building is prohibited. For Zone 2, the joint ministerial decision laid down specific environmental conditions for the protection of the extent of the forest, fire protection of forest land, etc. Furthermore, in order to ensure free access to the beach in the same Ministerial Decision, specific conditions are laid down to ensure the protection of the Agialou zone and to limit the interventions allowed to the upgrading of the port facility. All I say is that there is a framework, which we as a ministry, decentralised, port authorities, all involved, must respect. As far as the complaints you refer to are concerned, within the competence of our Ministry, we have indeed asked the Inspection Body of Northern Greece for information. This information gives rise to the following. Whatever I can't do in time, I'll tell my dentistry. Complaints about non-compliance with building and environmental conditions have been filed in the Northern Greece Inspectors' House since September 2019, including interventions in the Agialou zone, etc. On environmental issues, the College of Inspectors forwarded these complaints to the Decentralised Administration of Thessaly in order to have the necessary investigation within the framework of its powers. With regard to town planning issues, the Board of Inspectors forwarded these complaints to the Skiathos Building Agency, asking for information, relevant audits, etc. Based on the information from the Skiathos Building Agency, the Department of Inspectors had planned a visit to Skiathos to carry out on-the-spot checks, which were not carried out due to COVID -19, but will be carried out. In other words, the mandate we have given is for these checks to be carried out in the next few years, of course, because we too are interested in clarifying the matter. We do not want these reactions and doubts to be dragged. Let me continue - I don't know if you want later - to tell you what I said before, that the thing is a little complicated in the sense that others say about her issues of one service and others. But I've already reached four and a half minutes. Perhaps I should interrupt and go on giving and food for thought to Mr Arsenis about a question in the meantime.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u33	As you wish, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u34	Minister, it's in the dome scenery and on the bulwark. It's the wolf's pleasure. What we have at the moment is, obviously, we have one municipality and three agencies you mentioned that may mention different infringements, but each one brings something from this mosaic of infringements. It is obvious that we have a businessman here who does not care or feels that it is not about either Greek or European legislation. And to be honest, coming here and telling us that the landscape is unclear does not create the best picture, not because you do not have full knowledge, but because you are actually leaving a great window of justice to this businessman, for whom there are already convicted decisions. I'll be very specific. On 28 April is the decision on sanctions from the Port to this operation and obliges the various facilities to leave within one month. The month has passed. Are the facilities gone? And why do we ask all this? Because we have the case of Io, where there are people now, who estimate that the law sanctions are so light, so low the fines, so unlikely they will have to pay for them that they continue and carry out various activities, rather than environmental inspectors, which is really widening, because this hotel with your environmentally acceptable law will also have exclusive access to the beach, which is closed by bars. You are creating a dystopia with what you are legislating, what you are letting be done, which does not only raise the tourist product, not only does it not allow dignity to be denied to citizens, but it cuts off access to public and municipal land, public goods and clearly degrades the product. Because in an absolute protection environment at European level, when this hotelier, with the tolerance of services, apparently cut off the pine cones and planted olives when he opened a thorn in the beaches and moved the sewage to the cavalry, it means that he really feels he has strong backs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u35	Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u36	First of all, I would like to tell you that the businessman, the company, have a duty to respect the law and apply it. They can't do anything else. They'll apply him. They will also be subjected to sanctions if they have to be punished. That is why I do not want there to be any doubt. I would also like you to have no doubt about the accuracy of the information I give you. I have so far referred to the building service, which has been placed in the way you have been placed in many places, saying that there is a behaviour incompatible with the law. There is the port police for what it is concerned with, which says on 24 April 2020 that issues were identified with constructions, which are not compatible with those provided for in the urban study, which has been approved and whose removal has indeed been requested. And obviously the businessman is obliged to do the right thing. However, we must give the whole picture. The port police department Skiathos stated in the same document that no pollution has been detected since the start of operation in the sea, beach and sea from sewage or the existence of illegal facilities. Also, the port police report that at the entrance of the installation, at a point off-season beach bars have been placed, which should not be, while on the other hand there is a free space that allows for the passage of pedestrians to the beach. That is to say, it is partially adopting complaints, partly rejecting them. And the Forestry - I have everything it says here - is actually rejecting complaints about what concerns it. You're not a forest neither am I. And you're counting on information, and I'm counting on information. The difference is that I'm counting on the office information. It tells the Forestry that on October 8, 2019, the services were autopsied in the investment area. Following the autopsy the Forestry issued a document entitled 'Take of plant protection measures for forest protection'. In short, because time has passed again, he says damage has been detected in various pine cones and he says more details. In any case, he considers that it is probably because of a pathological or entomological cause. That is why, after the end of the anti-nuclear period and in consultation with the forest office, all the dead trees must be grounded, burned and covered. That is why all this work is obviously being done. There is this aspect too. And he also says: "Dead trees are found in their vast majority in landmarks characterized by acts of characterisation of the Skopelos Forestry as non-forestry". On the posted forest map of the island of Skiathos, they appear as PA. Cologne, why am I saying this, Mr Arseny? I'm telling you to show that other things the office says, but the port says somewhere in the middle, and more says the building service. And that's why we're looking into this matter thoroughly, calmly, seriously. The inspectors will go there, make their report, and we are obviously interested in moving with the letter and the spirit of the law, without extremism towards the company, but also with respect obviously to the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister. We are now moving on to the first with number 742-25-2020, a topical question for the second-cycle question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The government has agreed on a new NOME until the lignite plants are closed'. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for being here. I say this because, unfortunately, we have six months to see you answer questions, and so far we have tabled twenty-eight written questions by the end of April, from which I see 12 were answered as time-limits, because they were not answered in writing, ten answered late and three others are waiting for them to be answered. In all this, which you do not say satisfactoryly about our country's Ministry of the Environment, I see that there are still many requests for documents on recycling, water supply and the business plan of PPC. The fact is that something needs to be changed, as far as parliamentary control and the presence of the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, since that is not all. We saw that the Ministry of the Environment was absent from the discussion on the tragic tourism law, where he tried with three articles to change the important elements of forestry policy. And if the Opposition didn't understand, it wouldn't have taken over the Ministry of the Environment. Eventually, half of them were withdrawn. I must also tell you, Minister, that tomorrow there is an article in the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development, which refers to the bodies of protected areas that you have abolished. It's Article 4. Could you be careful about what you sign before giving your approval to bills of other ministries that abduct environmental policy? But I come to the issues that I ask you about. It is true that, being very consistent in your logic that communication is more important than substance, which is also served by the Prime Minister, you had a top communication show of destruction from the beginning of your term, about the period of governance of SYRIZA with extreme statements about our responsibilities, about NOMEs with an obvious goal, to hide your irritation, because we canceled "little" PPC, we made PPC with less borrowing, we did not put increases in tariffs, we saved IPTO, the PPA and too many bodies, which are now sold out and to cover the fact that you are coming to implement the 2014 memorandum without a justification for bankruptcy, to sell gas, to sell the energy transmission network and to provide unfair increases to all Greek producers, professionals and citizens. In September 2019, however, with very hard statements within the House, you told us that we serve interests in a shameless way, that we are a lie industry. In "KATHMERINI" you stated with a melodramatic emotional style, which you are using it very much, that SYRIZA had made an agreement with the Commission in 2015 on NOMEs, that we wanted to reduce PPC to 50% of production even though we reduced it, which was false, that your conscience did not allow you to impose NOME. But you didn't say anything about the elephant in the room, even though we asked you. I, too, asked you personally in the then PPC - PPC law and the rest of the modernisation of "purpose", if you are discussing with the institutions to impose new NOME and revised treatment measures. You did not answer, Minister. We returned to another surveillance report in February 2020, which is the only way to finally inform the Greek society and not you, the repetition by the Commission that you are discussing this. Again, you didn't say anything. Finally, Madam President, on 20 May we find in the revised report that Greece is discussing options with the Commission that will enable PPC's competitors to compete with and gain access to existing lignite production. So you're talking about new NOME, Mr. Hatzidakis. The question is: If we were to serve interests bound by your second Memorandum of Understanding - why NOME is a work of the New Democracy and Mr Manatis - you now what interests are you serving? We would, however, prefer, first of all, to tell us if you are negotiating a new NOME with the Commission and what impact this will have on PPC. This is of interest to Greek citizens. And since you did not seek to inform us, we took the initiative to inform the House. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u40	I do not want to be tempted about comparisons, about parliamentary control over SYRIZA and parliamentary control over New Democracy. At least, as far as our Ministry is concerned, I remember very well as a Member of the opposition that half of the questions, topical and oral questions have not been answered here. And then, Mr Mitsotakis, as Head of the New Democracy, had raised the issue to the then President of the Parliament, Mr Voutsi. This issue has been raised on several occasions. So you shouldn't remember, I think, Mr. Famele, because you're just digging the memory of all of us. We remember what happened then. Our ministry is systematically present. When I can't be here because of other obligations, it's always the Undersecretaries. Questions are answered, according to the spirit and letter of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. From there on, in relation to this matter, I would like to thank you for the question, because it enables me to recall SYRIZA's agreement again in the summer of 2015 on NOMEs. SYRIZA agreed in the third memorandum to limit PPC's share of 95%, which was then around 50% compared to 0 euros for PPC. It was against EUR 0 at first sight, because if you look at it further, you will see that it was not just a free privatisation. It was a privatization with damage to PPC, which is estimated at EUR 600 million. You'll say I say that. It's the financial evidence. This has been said by Mr. Panayotakis, PPC's CEO on SYRIZA. These are very specific events and they do not change. And the things about SYRIZA, who is again trying to get the prosecution post, are even worse. In addition to the damage caused by the restriction of PPC's share of NOMEs and for the benefit of competitors, which are the great interests of SYRIZA, SYRIZA agreed to sell two lignite units on Florina and Megalopolis at the same time. These lignite plants were attempted to sell in two rounds. The first round failed. In the second round there was an attempt to sell, to privatize, without a threshold. In other words, in theory, someone with a euro could come and get them. That was the privatisation in SYRIZA. SYRIZA is coming today to criticise us who took PPC into a tragic situation and managed to obtain a certificate of viability, which was not and was not given last September, when we managed to raise her credit position. We have also managed, despite the difficulties and turbulences of the stock exchange due to the coronary to almost triple the price of its share over the past few months. PPC's going forward. PPC is modernising. And in relation to your question, Mr Famele, the answer is very simple: No, there will be no new NOME. There will be no new NOME. There will be an agreement with the European Commission. The negotiations are continuing. The government is not prepared to accept NOME. This government is the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. It is not the Government of Alexis Tsipras, who signed NOMEs and made this unique attempt to privatise PPC for the benefit of its competitors. We're moving forward. We'll find a solution with a horizon in 2023 that ends and degreeisation. We will find a solution which, when presented, will not harm the country's largest energy company at all. And that's our difference. You are words, words, words. You reached PPC on the lip of destruction, while we rescued PPC. We continue the effort to modernise it. And what you do is reflected in the consciences of the citizens and their own employees, who do not listen to SYRIZA's screams and actually trust the government's efforts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Minister, I have to tell you that it is too tiring for a government of about ten months to always use the tactical 'opposition to opposition' instead of presenting its work. So you told us you didn't answer the questions, why did SYRIZA do it? And you're happy about that? Are you infringing the Rules of Procedure of the House and looking for excuses in the past? Didn't you say you'd come to the government to be better than SYRIZA? You're worse. You have not answered a single question in time, Minister. If you want, let's make a comparison. Bring the questions about the Ministry of the Environment, which I was responsible for, and compare. Please, Minister, do not hide behind the weaknesses of others. For your own weaknesses, will you tell us something about your own policy? I was sure, Minister, that you would try again to lay the burdens on SYRIZA and on NOME. And I was looking to find out exactly what happened to the Samara - Venizelos Government, which you are obligating me to submit to the House. It is absolutely false of your argument that the government of Alexis Tsipras introduced NOTAMs and the agreement on them. For this reason, Madam President, I am presenting in the Minutes the letter of the Secretary of State for the Environment and Climate Change, Maki Papageorgiou, on 22 January 2014, asking the RAE to initiate legislative procedures for the implementation in September 2014 of NOMEs. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also present page 60 of the second memorandum, the fourth evaluation - I think it is April 2014 - that the institutions are also saying that you are committed to selling "little" PPC and imposing NOME. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So that's what I'd say, please, Minister, to stop them. They don't match us. We have nothing to do with this debate. Your agreement was the NOMEs, as was the "little" PPC and the sale of IPTO and PPC, and we stopped at least 80% of your commitments while leaving Greece bankrupt, Minister. So don't give me that. So we'll talk a little bit more specifically. Did SYRIZA agree to sell lignite units because SYRIZA wanted it? No, because a European court has been lost that your government was responsible for, why did it not provide a proper documentation, nor did it compete properly, with Greece, so that it could enter the new environment of Europe's energy model? No, Mr. Hatzidakis. This case was closed in the European Court of Justice before the SYRIZA government. We were forced by the institutions to apply this, because you had been bankrupt home and you had not put PPC in renewable energy sources, you had not made any other steps to reorganise production and you had never made the rehabilitation of lignite. Because the first defoliation project was made by SYRIZA with the National Energy and Climate Plan. All this is clear and we are now asking you to inform us why you have not done so so far, Minister. And if you manage to do so by our own pressure, we will be proud that we are now pressing you not to make laws as you did in 2013-2014 and you committed our country. We ask you this question, because we are sure that, with the catastrophe you continue, you want to deceive PPC further and sell PPC's share of production, as Mr Stassis admits. Madam President, we have an interview which says on the one hand that PPC will have profits and even speak of something strange 700 million euros, while it says that Mr Hatzidakis' aim is to reduce the share of production in PPC to 30%, while you received it more than 75%. So who reduces PPC's share - by losing it already - and at the same time negotiates for NOME? You. And you do it as you did with the IPPC, with IPTO, without the country having any responsibility and without any care for Greek production, for the citizens. As cynically admitted in the "BILD" Mr.Mitsotakis, they need to find some work for the inhabitants of western Macedonia and Megalopolis, and they promised only the gifts for the German companies. For Greece, for the Greeks, for Greeks, for Greek production, for Greek entrepreneurship, will you do something? Or is it only pointless increases of EUR 500 million that you made in September, so that now you get to sell at twice the cost of production, without benefiting the Greek citizen, while cutting off the current on the business people who are denouncing that you are washing your hands as Pontius Pilate? That is why we ask you, Mr Hatzidakis. That's why you've done nothing. And unfortunately you only have contradictory statements. And, Madam President, let me say that. In a debate we held here, you promised us that you would testify to the business plan of PPC, which the president and CEO mentioned to the shareholders, but did not even give it to them. So where is PPC's business plan? Is there a plan for PPC? Or is the only project, as Mr. Stassis says, which I will table in the Minutes, to reduce PPC's share of energy and ultimately denounce our country's energy pillar? Because we're sure that's all you're doing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unless our question, which you have also not answered, is that all you do to PPC and DEDDI is to create manager positions to help you with "blue children" with high pay, much more than the positions of PPC's organogram so far, without any business plan. That is what we see, Mr Hatzidakis, and we are afraid of what you are negotiating. And we ask you again: Are you preparing a plan, such as the increases, which made PPC's good and consistent customers go and rub their hands in private? What interests do you serve, Mr. Hatzidakis? The interests of Greece or German companies, as promised by the ‘BILD’ by Mr Mitsotakis? Because that is the only thing Mr Mitsotakis has said, which was the most environmentally friendly Prime Minister in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u43	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u44	It's really nice, and I'm jealous of you, Mr. Famele, so when the reality doesn't suit you to make your own reality and live in it or pretend there's something different than what really exists. Honestly you didn't tell us anything right, nothing accurate and it's not the first time. You claimed we made the NOMEs. But it passed a law in the summer of 2015. You are supposed to have mentioned a number of texts in which it is not the first time you are talking about, you have also referred to a debate on the law we have done. They are text papers, which the NOMEs state at the same time as the "little" PPC. Those who know of energy and economics understand that they cannot go either way. Either one goes ahead or the other, because one conflicts with the other. The Community was completely covered by the "little" PPC that you erroneously abolished. Secondly, you say about the lignite plants that we did. Nah, were we government in 2017 and 2018? You brought them and voted against them and did them in a way like what I described, which did not work at all. But you also had the nerve to do a second round - world originality! - the sale of lignite plants without a threshold. Privatisation of the 1 euro you planned to do and come with courage today to move the finger. You mentioned in my so-called statements or Mr. Stassis, that we want PPC's share to be 30%. These are only in your mind and in your own papers, which I don't know who wrote them and where you found them, but whoever said they should be for a bond that claims that the Minister of Energy or another who runs PPC, that PPC will go to 30%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u45	I filed it. It's in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u46	I told you that you were meant to take her to 50%, and that I will tell you no matter how bothering you. And I told you that thank you very much for asking these questions to repeat to each Greek citizen what exactly SYRIZA did to PPC and how it led to the lip of destruction. Now, from there on, your estimates for PPC can be done whatever you want. But we know very well that last February the report by the sworn auditor came out, which said that PPC is on the verge of bankruptcy and that it has a question of sustainability. We also know that following the extraordinary speeches of the summer that we made just as soon as we took over the country's governance, the report by the sworn auditor was backed up, which said that this is no longer the issue. We know that the "STANDARD & POOR'S" last October gave PPC credit and we know that the Stock Exchange, i.e. the market, positively sees the government's moves and the law on the abolition of the perpetuality and the "injection" of executives from the market we are doing. Yes, we do so that PPC can better stand in competition and PPC gets up that way. We also see foreign companies - 'RWE', 'MASDAR', the Portuguese company - coming and making partnerships with PPC in renewable energy sources, which you left in 3% of the country's largest energy company in the market. We see a series of modernisation moves for PPC. The whole world sees them, the market sees them, the workers see them, everyone sees them. Only SYRIZA can't see them. We're leaving you in your world. You're happy in your world. We don't want to ruin your happiness. But obviously we can't buy the asynchronous lies you're repeating.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the third topical question with the number 726/24-5-20 second cycle of MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The waste incineration plant in Volos in breach of European directives". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, something's wrong with Volos. There is now a organized effort by Mr. Beu to turn Volos into a capital of burning in Greece. Mr. Beos who reacts, swears him and threatens him. Last week your Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, was here and told me - not much - that Mr Beos is not a member of the New Democracy. I note that Mr. Lulis, Secretary General of Tourism, is Mr. Beau's first elected municipal councillor, while on July 2, 2019, Mr. Mitsotakis, visiting Volos in an election campaign said of Mr. Beo: "I respect the choices of local communities. That's why we've avoided a hard anointing. We chose to give a loose anointing to Volos," closing the eye to Mr. Beo. At the moment, Mr Beos brings a SRF plant to give the product produced for combustion, that is, the garbage at the SGER plant. That's what he says in his statements. We call on you to withdraw and intervene throughout this process, so that the health of the citizens in Volos is no longer burdened. I will submit to you the following documents: the Metsovian Polytechnics Document on the formation of dioxins during the combustion of alternative fuel RDF at the premises of the cement industry, the text of the Medical Association of Magnesia on the burning of garbage in "AGET" and the message to the prosecutor, what Mr Beos says will sue "AGET", what your MP Mr Maraveyas says there are many questions about the SRF, what your Parliamentary Representative Mr.Boukoros says, that he prefers a model like Epirus with bioenergy production and, of course, the negative opinion of the Technical Chamber of Magnesia on the project. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u49	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u50	First of all, you will forgive me, Madam President, because I would like to say something that I owe myself and my family first because, apart from politicians, we have a route. Previously, it was said that we are not answering questions, that we are not coming and that the Ministry of the Environment has written the House about the oldest of his shoes. So I respond with the information I have requested - and I have it - and I would ask Mr Famello to the world, the fantasy he is in, to question them. Sixty-four questions have been submitted here for the Ministry. The file entered seven, fifty-seven were programmed, fifty-six were discussed. The Minister answered eighteen, Mr. Thomas in ten, Mr. Economou in twenty-eight. Minister's coma for a workload, committed obligations, zero. Minister's coma for government missions or other tasks, etc., zero. In any case, Mr Famello's criticisms are also made, and he should ask for an apology which he will never ask for. I go further and reply to Mr Arseni. Mr Arseni, you referred to the mayor, to other factors, etc. I want to talk about this. Let us finally make it clear if we want this technology for the energy use of waste or we do not want it. The question title speaks of a garbage burning plant in Volos. However, the text of the question focuses on the project entitled 'Completed Volos waste management facility', which concerns something very different. This project concerns the construction of a waste treatment plant and a plant for the treatment of predetermined organic materials in the area where the Volos CYTA has been operating since 1982. The municipality has chosen the location of today's HYTA to create the new plant, with the aim of recovering recyclable materials and producing secondary solid fuel, the SRF, which was previously mentioned. The project is designed to serve the urban waste management needs of Volos, Almyros, Ferraios King, etc. At the same location, the CYYY space will work for the residues. It is therefore an integrated waste treatment plant designed to be carried out in Volos, as in many other areas in the country, which, in addition to the treatment of waste and the recovery of recyclable materials, will produce secondary fuel, the SRF will produce. So you can explain on what basis you as a party - and I do not know who else here in Parliament - you are against the SRF. The SRF is foreseen by the existing National Waste Management Plan and by regional planning, which were voted on by the previous government. In the matter of environmental licensing, the environmental impact study dossier has been transmitted from 18 March 2020 to the Regional Council of Thessaly for carrying out the consultation legislation. It has been sent to the legislators for all the relevant studies. There is full access to all interested citizens and, as we have heard from the Decentralised Administration, there are already positive opinions from the Directorate-General of the General Staff and the Antiquities of Magnesia - they are positive - while the dossier continues to be in the consultation process. In this context, the Municipality of Volos, who gave a favourable opinion, was invited to deliver their views and opinions and institutions, as indeed the Technical Chamber of Magnesia and the Medical Association. There is therefore a broad consultation. You have found two opinions that are against, to refer to. From there on, everything will be taken into account. But I say again that I want an answer from you and all the Members of the Greek Parliament. Are we against this technology? Because if we are, I have a lot to answer then, Mr Arsenis, because you are representing your party as the honourer in this matter, and I am well aware that we are fully following the forecasts of both European and national legislation. But I reserve to tell you about these in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u51	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, you will obviously tell me in your dentext, because I will not be able to answer any more, as there is no tritology of my own. But let us talk about the essence. First of all, I would like to disagree with the colleague. You do come to the timeliness as a government. You're mostly sending Mr. Economou, sometimes you come yourself. But you are absent, Minister, from critical bills of your authority. In other words, the Ministry of Tourism brought us a bill that mainly had your own issues and Mrs Mendoni and you didn't come for a moment to defend those disgusting things that were happening in there. These continued in other bills. We would like you to be present in these too. Now, you say they are in line with planning and European directives. Is it planned anywhere in the context of the hierarchy of sustainable waste management to be burning without, in practice, substantial recycling? With the mechanical sorting you're going to do, what will be your recovery rate? How much is it under European objectives? How far below national targets is it? These are burning questions. Without sorting at the source, you give the waste shells to the private. What was your Ministry's opinion on this environmental impact study? Because so far you have told us about the two bodies that reacted and the body that is doing the work, which agreed to the Municipality of Volos. That's not dialogue. Obviously, the Municipality of Volos wanted to promote the project. But you're talking about burning too. I'll read to you what the Medical Association of Magnesia says. So he says, "There are some who have selective odour..." - they talk about the smell of burnt plastic that exists in the city of Volos almost every night - "...and try to convince the majority of citizens that it smells nothing. I would say to them if a doctor were to consider the subject of odors, because they might be in trouble." He's talking about those who close their eyes, ears and mouths. We are not in them, Minister. Obviously, we are asking you to stop burning with the effects it has on the health of the citizens of Volos. Obviously that's what we're asking. Do not extend it to the Gender, do not extend it to TITANA, do not extend it anywhere else. We want this story to be stopped. Do you know what the study of Metsovian Polytechnic says? It says that the dioxins produced from combustion have no limit, because they cannot have a limit. They function cumulatively for people's health and must be excluded by a zero limit. That's what you produce. This is what you give to the health of the citizens. This is what you share in the atmosphere of Volos and "TITANA" in Thessaloniki slowly. And you prepare it for both the Race and Shhisto and for the entire West Athens. Obviously, we're against it. Tell us what your Ministry's opinion was and why this process is going on. Will you stop her? We invite you to stop her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u53	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u54	Mr Arseni, I really wanted to ask you - whenever we come back to this issue, as it has received great publicity - on the basis of what law, European or national, one can stop this whole process. Previously, you told me that the law of businessman in Skiathos should not apply. That's right. The law of the State should be applied. And I want to talk to you just about the law of the state that you and we all have to respect in this particular case. According to the Environmental Effects Study submitted for this Volos plant, it is planned to set up a plant for the mechanical biological treatment of incoming solid waste to produce the SRF. Secondly, with regard to the SRF, which, as you say in your question, is contrary to the hierarchy of sustainable waste management - source sorting, etc. - and so you say that it violates European and national legislation on waste management, I want to tell you the following. First, under Law 4042/2012 on Waste in Article 29, on the hierarchy of waste management actions, the recovery of waste for energy production is hierarchically higher than burial. That's the first. Secondly, the existing SYRIZA National Waste Management Plan, adopted on the Ministerial Council on 15 December 2015, mentions the priority use of the energyborn domestic industry - cement industry, ceramics and so forth - for the absorption of alternative fuels and exploring possibilities in co-incineration infrastructure. Thirdly, in the strategy for the circular economy published in December 2018 - on SYRIZA - the promotion of the use of waste as secondary fuels is typically referred to as an action! - in industry which can contribute substantially to the savings of non-renewable fuels, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and the reduction in production costs, particularly in highly energy-intensive industries. The SYRIZA's current SRF design, that's national legislation, that's what you're asking me to breach in reality. This is to add the voluntary cooperation agreement of the Ministry of Energy - made by Mr Famelos - and of the Greek Cement Industry Association signed on 3 July 2019 for the same reason. Furthermore - not to tell you about the EU's 'TAXONOMIC' system and everything else, the action plan for the cyclical economy as a whole of the European Union - I would just like to say something to you - and I am closing down with that - the response given by the Commissioner responsible at the time - the European Union - on 30 April 2018 to Mr Houdi, then a Member of the European Parliament. It says on the same subject: ‘The solid recovered fuel produced from non-recyclable waste can be an appropriate waste management treatment to produce raw materials for waste conversion processes in energy, such as co-incineration in combustion plants and cement kilns. Their use replaces the combustion of fossil fuels. According to the waste hierarchy, this treatment contributes to reducing the excessive landfill rate in Greece and recovering the energy contained in non-recyclable waste. The competent authorities are responsible for ensuring that only non-recyclable waste is subject to the treatment of solid recovered fuels.’ That is what the European Commissioner says, and that is what European legislation says, national legislation, which was by the way passed on to SYRIZA. What legislation should I apply? Yours, Mr. Arseny? So, if you were in my place and had all these laws in front of you, would you choose a law of your head and apply it because you don't like legislation? I do not apply my own legislation, I apply existing Union and national legislation and it will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. We are now moving now, ladies and gentlemen, on the third with number 738/25-5-2020, a top-level question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Finance, on "Inadmissible and unjustly discreet wage treatment against employees of businesses referred to in Article 40 of Law 4440/2016." The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. In time, Minister, the governments that alter - New Democracy, PASOK, Change Movement, SYRIZA - by implementing the common Euro-Union defence policy lead the country's defence industries to shrink and close, with disastrous results for the country's defence and for its workers. Under Law 4440/2016 on the single mobility system in these enterprises - "MELECTROVICE DESCRIPTION", "ELECTRONIC KYMIS", Greek Defence Systems, Greek Vehicle Industry - the option - for employees to be transferred to public sector entities - legal persons governed by public and private law, independent authorities and others - has not been guaranteed the wage rights of those companies. The ministerial decision of the then Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Gerovasili, decided that the transporters are to grades of their training grade on the basis of the total service time that has been passed on to the operators of origin. This is an unfair and anti-competitive decision, as it deprives the transferees of up to three payrolls and any personal difference between them, reducing their earnings due to the non-recognition of a pre-service recognised by the entity of origin outside the organisation. It should be noted that the practical result of this decision is additional losses for those workers who may have reached and 20% of their earnings, in addition to those who had been submitted with the implementation of the single wage and who had reached 40%. One understands what the sum means. Moreover, to host entities which have not been implemented by the authority will be retained retroactively from the date of the reception of workers to the host institution by eliminating their income in a pandemic period. Article 2(5) of Law 4440/2016 expressly states that in any case the transfer takes place with the same employment relationship, the transferees retain the same insurance and pension status, as well as any personal difference in their remuneration. As you can see, this is an unfair and discreet treatment against the workers of four companies who are effectively abolishing any concept of equality. We are asking, Minister, what the government intends to do, by correcting the injustice suffered by workers, in order to amend the Ministerial Decision, so that the time of service has been recognised as the service of the institution of origin - within and outside - as is the case for everyone in the single mobility system, to have retroactive effect from 22-9-2017 onwards, so that it does not produce unfair results on the payroll of employees under Article 40 of Law 4440/2016 and to stop any reduction of remuneration that has not already been imposed on workers and to restore the differences that have arisen and been retained by the hosting bodies for workers under Article 40 of Law 4440/2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u57	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, these transfers are actually carried out by bodies operating as private enterprises - not successfully, for a number of reasons, I am not going to enter this debate now, hence some are being wound up - and when they go through the public sector, these people go through the rules of the single wage, as is the case for any private worker who gets into an ADP competition and wins a post in the public sector, which is earning it after a whole process. So those who do not carry any personal differences go under the rules of the single wage and the same treatment for reasons of equality, as they are mentioned, also applies in the case of these workers. In the specific legal area you refer to the cases you say are applicable when the transfers are compulsory. Here the transfers are of a voluntary nature. Therefore, our view is that for reasons of equal treatment they have and will have the same treatment that someone who works in the private sector and through an APA is entering the public sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u60	I understand, Minister, that all the logic of defending this cut is based on the voluntary nature of the case and not on the compulsory nature. First of all, we must say that these workers have been subjected to the credential act that recognised their three-year recognition before the body from which they are transferred to the public. And while Article 2 of Law 4440/2016 recognizes all rights to the transferred - insurance, pensions - and without loss of personal difference, it has been welded - you will allow me to - below the harmful provision which distinguishly made the treatment unequal to those transferred by other public and wider sectors, without any other logic than dry towel rights for money savings, since the same does not apply to their rating. On the basis of your written reply, please refer to the equal treatment of those companies with those officials who are already serving in public bodies. It must be said that you understand equal treatment and especially when it helps cuts, because otherwise we have never experienced it. However, this is the policy of all of you we must say, the salamation in a thousand ways of income to exploit every turn of developments and cut it down. The law preceded final developments in the defence industries. You and SYRIZA "drive" them on the basis of the directions of the European Union and adapted the law to get wage rights. It must be said, however, that the worst smuggling towards workers is that the transfer was a voluntary process. That goes too far, Minister. You have led the strategic companies to suffocation with continuous sub-financing, to deceive them, to close or privatization, to leave unpaid workers for long periods and to wild insecurity, and now you are also asking for change. These workers, scientists, craftsmen, Minister, have built our country's defence very effectively, have developed the possibility of production in other sectors, transport and defence vehicles and much more. You have taken them through their hands, removed them from our people as a whole, so that we can be more specific, and you have given everything - building facilities, equipment, intellectual and industrial property rights, know-how, designs, IT licences and patents that have been guaranteed. The disastrous consequences for our country's defence are already tangible. You didn't even let bullets produce anymore. You led our country to a role of subcontractor. You sent her to an absolute dependence in this area too. You removed them from the hands of our people and where did you give them? To your friends, to the allies, as you call them, NATO and the European Union, namely those who equip Turkey's bourgeois order, those who mock her and push her and help her to push her forward, breaking sovereign rights and threatening our country and our people. SYRIZA had also reported on this orientation. Our ultimate goal, he said, is for Greece to be a industrial support centre for US weapons systems and our other allies in south-eastern Europe, as well as in the wider region of the Middle East and North Africa. This, you will allow us to say, Minister, has nothing to do with the interests and needs of our country and our people. On the basis of all this planning, you must be judged by the workers. In their hands is the possibility for another development path away from dependencies and impoverishment, a development that can solve all of their modern problems today and meet their needs as a whole. With this intervention you further break the lives of the workers, the individual, family and social life, which was built on specific possibilities. Reinstate their rights, return their losses, and not save money from such cuts for various CECs, mass media, banks, air and hotel groups and others. Workers, but also the Communist Party, demand the reintroduction of their rights, pension insurance and wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u62	I listen very interestingly to this whole theory. The reality is, however, that every one of these I sign large amounts from taxpayers to various public undertakings, including some of whom you are referring to. Big amounts. In your opinion, all these amounts come from somewhere from heaven, I do not know where, from some money tree, because the presence of the taxpayers in your process completely escapes you, that is to say, that there are people, workers and those who go and pay VAT and paying VAT when they buy a basic asset for them finance the whole operation of the state and the wages of everything. So the payers also have rights. It's not just those who get money that have rights in this society. They also have rights to pay. You'll have to understand that at some point. And the theory that the state can live only by taxing the profits of the great capital is a theory that is budgetaryly words of air, because, whatever we do, whatever we do, the reality is that the great part of the Greek people pays to have a state that operates efficiently and a basic principle to operate effectively is to have an elementary equality between those who serve it. When is there an elementary equality? When a person who follows a route and then comes and enters the public service via ASP is rewarded as everyone else is rewarded. There is no point in telling the person who followed the path of ASEP that "you are a second-class citizen". They are not second-class citizens, they are normal citizens who have worked, they have competed, they have tried, they have entered and they have no personal difference. So, when there are budgetary possibilities, we would certainly like to improve the remuneration, especially of new employees entering, who do not have the personal differences, but do not create new personal differences, which at the end of the day, because the money is specifically, by the people of the IAS who followed this route, they will be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u63	Me too, Minister. We are now moving on to the first with number 5583/74-2020 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Submit to support measures for small and micro-enterprises that are seasonally active in the tourist season, but their SARs are not included in the affected'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the consequences of pandemic are indeed unpredictable. But what is certain is that the level of the recession will depend on the effectiveness of measures and the planning of each government in each country and Europe as a whole. Europe has partly overcome the hesitation and problems and made important decisions. It will be at our disposal significant financial instruments from 2021 onwards in the next quarter, I assume, four months, that there will be a substantial job in Greece to see how we can make better use of these resources with transparency and integrity, and above all by investing in the future. But what's left is to see what we're doing by then. The Change Movement has proposed an interim programme to support work, businesses and, of course, initiatives to create an economic object for the operation of businesses. Tourism is a key pillar. Of course it also depends on the other countries. But it depends on us. The internal tourism programme, for example, could be the minimum basis for the operation of businesses. Unfortunately, the government has only adopted the title of our programme, as it does with others, but not the content. Our overall proposal created the conditions for the existence of a basis on which to build the activity in all regions of the country, and of course it also concerns other sectors. On the basis of my question I would like to know, as far as the businesses in the tourist areas that have not so far been supported are concerned, whether there will be a guarantee by means of the rules, in particular, of the advance payment that this second phase will enter and be supported, because they have been excluded from the EUR 800, the rest of the measures and from the first phase of the repayable advance. We are now focusing on the second phase and on the issue of TEPIX and the guarantee that is of course about all companies. According to the estimates by the small and medium-sized enterprises, eight out of ten enterprises will be excluded. That's a question. You'll have to see what you're doing. And on the occasion of the question, I repeat the proposal that we have tabled: first of all this year in a few days when taxpayers will be asked to pay an advance for 2020, it will be zero for the firms that have been affected and 50% for the other companies. And of course, you can seriously see how the institution of the unconsolidated business and rural account will be created so that the businesses can function without having the brunt of confiscation in their accounts at this difficult time. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much for the question. You raised a number of issues. I will try to answer first the substance of the question and then some other issues that you have raised. Let's start with the deposit. The first phase, in fact, could not catch the seasonal companies for the simple reason that the seasonals rarely operate in the first quarter and yet few are the ones that are going to start at the end of March. In principle, they did not exist in this procedure. The second phase of the returnee and in April and May includes a serious part of these businesses, because they usually start about Easter and certainly in May most of them work. For those who have not yet opened up and have not opened up or even last year's time, what damage will happen to tourism as well. We must take care there, see how we can help. In any case, the returnee in the first phase left some businesses, particularly those who did not have an employee outside. In the second phase, this will not be the case. Individual companies without employees engaged in commercial activity, as demonstrated by whether or not they have a cash machine - because you understand that someone who does not have a cash machine in practice does not engage in commercial activity - will be included. And because there is no code number of activity in the repayable advance - this does not exist - it enables us to meet the needs of at least April and May losses in a very satisfactory way. I think you should be told by the people who took a repayable deposit that those who took it for the March losses were very satisfying. As far as social tourism is concerned, we are making a programme, but this programme is one of the tools we are using - it will not be the main tool in this case - so that we can save money that will go more personalised. And I come to what you said about the advance income tax. I don't know if you've done the financial calculation. I have not yet made the financial calculation for a simple reason, because we have not yet been presented by the companies with the profits of 19 to know what the financial calculation is. However, the amount of the advance is very large. So we'll see how we can handle it. However, these companies that have been affected must be helped to a very significant extent through the advance payment of the income tax. So that's where we agree. I cannot tell you what we are collecting, because if I do not see what we are receiving, I cannot tell you the extent to which we can alleviate business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u67	Me, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I will present to you the document of the Federation of Trade Associations of Crete, which refers in detail to specific issues relating to businesses, particularly those involved in tourism, tourism and non-Tourist areas, I mean the identified ones. Of course, the whole economy is affected. It's not just tourist business. That is why the measures must be of a broader nature. On the subject of tax advance payments, farmers, professionals and businesses will be invited to pay in the next few days. On the same basis as yours, that you do not know what was the case in '19 to see what the tax is and therefore what an advance payment for '20 you will be able to deduct from 100%, the professional will tell you: 'I know that I have no revenue this year and you ask me for no advance income'. So for the first half of the year that has been closed down to zero in the companies affected, we can't talk about an advance. So I start with 50% right away. Someone who doesn't know will say that since they don't have any revenue, there's going to be a little advance. No, the deposit is coming out - I'm saying it more about the people who listen to us last year. So it's someplace unfair and broader doesn't match the philosophy that almost this year's activity will take place last year. No, it's found that they won't have the same activity. So for the advance payment, Minister, you need to see seriously what reduction you can make in all companies - we said that 50% can be done anyway - and, of course, in the companies affected, there is no advance. The second point I raised concerns the irresponsible account. It needs its establishment for this period, in order that insurance contributions, workers, operating expenses of undertakings may be paid by this account and that the operation of these enterprises should not be affected by other obligations such as loans or other cases. In this case we must see how they are, of course, regulated or served, but not from the money that workers have to take. Of course, the closure of the operation is not the solution. As far as the question of cheques is concerned, for a short period it can function by transferring the payment obligation, because the one who makes it take, okay to wait a month or two. But if it continues - which continues - the crisis will require an intermediate instrument. We have proposed to you, Minister, that a bank tool should be created with the guarantee of the State - if you want, we simply say it - which, if there are no guarantees, the whole amount, but on the basis of the order itself, can give a 75%, so that the debtor can also be served, but also the one who makes the money. Without an intermediate banking tool, the service of bank cheques can not continue. And I think you should go ahead with this regulation so that there can be results. I will conclude - because I have spent time - saying that the longer there is a firm policy on the creation of economic activities, the more money will then be needed to alleviate the effects of the crisis. In short, invest today in creating the economic conditions for jobs, having economic results, having jobs and jobs, so that we do not have to give them unemployment benefits and survival benefits. Because that is what every country that is favoured is forced to do. He can't do it at the end. However, for example, the programme entitled 'Internal tourism for all' must not be for two hundred and fifty thousand announced by Mr Theocharis, saying: 'But these have given me from the Ministry of Finance'. If it was three million instead of two hundred and fifty thousand, as we say, it means fifteen million stays with five days, seven million wages, less allowances, a larger turnover in the areas where the three million people will spend and spend these five days. I think you should do this not because it is a waste of money, but because it is about investing money that they are going to take to create jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u70	The options are about what you describe. We really need to help the government - and it helps the economy. However, it also has a second aspect that is important, which is to be able to do this in a measured way, so that we do not have surprises in the event of an unfavourable development. In other words, there must be cash reserves and there must be a more unfavourable development of what we anticipate. As far as social tourism is concerned, how much you are going to use this tool is something that is also dependent on the money you remove from the other tools. So, because we're talking about cash reserves this year, you put social tourism, you get it out of the repayable advance, you get it out of advance income tax. Indeed, the advance payment of the income tax to companies that have been damaged - and we can safely predict that they will be damaged this year - does not have the necessary economic logic. You can only do it if you're in a bad financial position or a bad cash position. And that is why there is a special legislation - I must tell you - which says that an undertaking that can predict damage can go to the regent with the existing legislation and reduce the advance considerably. On the other hand, the amounts relating to the income tax of legal persons are too large and we need to make a cash account to see the extent to which we are going to apply what you say. First of all, I have to say that I agree with you. We must first count and then talk. And to finish with a reference to the checks and how much we can use some sort of cheque-specific tool. The idea is interesting. I note that responsibility lies with the Ministry of Development. I cannot give you an answer on behalf of the Ministry of Development - here you are asking the Ministry of Finance - but at the end of the day you will find yourself or we will be across the glorious banking criteria. To the extent that you give a loan, even a piece of the loan comes from the bank - because if it doesn't come from the bank, you give it all yourself, it doesn't make sense - bank criteria have to be applied. The Ministry of Development has taken the view - and we have accepted it - that the large tool for the guarantee, 2 billion cash guarantee Cash Collateral, which is now coming out, will also be able to cover the checks. If this does not happen satisfactorily, I hope that we will be able to cover some of these difficulties in the small cases with the repayable advance, but part. We gave tourism two more months to get these tools running. You should know that those who are out of perimeter gave very strong inhibitions to some who stayed with the cheques and are out of tourist perimeter, so they could move. The difficulty is, however, the banking criteria, which are not ours. It is European and it is about the functioning of the banks. I hope that the guarantee is quite generous - and it is generous enough on our part - so that the banks make the overrun, take these checks and give money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u71	The checks are issued by the banks, so they know the situation of each businessman.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u72	What they're publishing is a block that has empty pages in it. They do not issue all the cheques.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u73	They don't give anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u74	They don't give each block. But they could not predict - to say the law of the unseen one - that there would be something that great tourist agencies - say - would leave them with fifty million voids in their programming. It's a very difficult matter. I know and understand and accept the concern they are putting forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u75	And the agony of businessmen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u76	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-01-S1-commons.u78	With the consent of this House at 20.15 minutes the sitting will be resolved tomorrow, Tuesday, June 2, 2020, at 10.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
