ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before the agenda for legislative work, a reference will be made to the National Remembrance Day of the Genocide of the Greeks of Asia Minor by the Turkish state and a minute of silence will be observed. According to a decision of the Conference of Presidents, the President-in-Office will make the historical reference for five minutes. Our army is starting to leave. They were knocking on our doors and asking for clothes to pull the knuckle off of them. There were soldiers of wood, naked, ragged, swollen, islanders. The Turks came down and slaughtered the Greeks. Everywhere there was fire and a knife you could hear and see. Others disgraceed them, others slaughtered them, and others hanged them and burned them. One of the countless authentic testimonies saved by the Centre for Asia Minor Studies remains alive to remind us of the sad landmark of September 1922. Ninety-eight years later, one century in but two, it is supplemented this year by the day that this bloody page was written in our history book. The accounts of the Greeks who experienced the disaster are shocking. We are in Izmir, flooding the stab wounds in the blood. The Turks set fire an hour away, in a quarter the fire had come to us. They had gas and they were on their way. We got out on the road, fire on the one hand, sea on the other. We were in the middle, and the Chets were in the middle and slaughtered and killed. At night the Chets attacked to grab, slaughter, dishonor, help the world was yelling! English ships were across the street. They were shooting the spotlights, stopping for a while. We met in a mop around - they were smearing bodies and inside they were full of heads. That was awesome! Those who saw it, they're crazy! But the madhouse was filled with crazy people like we came. There we lost my father, my brother was slaughtered in the village. They took off Italian and Greek ships and took us. How many? They didn't even get one 20%. Such a disaster, they never saw my eyes again. An eyewitness narrative from an eyewitness. The greatest national disaster in the history of modern Hellenism and the last act of the drama and vision of the Great Idea. It was the first time that the Greek world was limited to the south of the Balkan peninsula and Cyprus. Of course, the disaster did not suddenly occur, but it was based on a well-organised plan of the New Turks that had been studied very early. In the "TIMES" of London, as early as October 1911, the positions of the Soviet-society "Union and Progress" which held power had been published. Amongst other things, Ottomanization by force of all residents was the first priority and the means of enforcing it was the armed Muslims. The right to organisation and autonomy would be abolished for the rest of the nationalities. So slow and methodically headed by the First World War and with the support of the Germans, the first persecutions from Eastern Thrace began and were culminated in the genocide in the Asia Minor Point. Then the komaliists directed all their forces to the operation of totalitarian delinquency in Asia Minor, aspiring to transform the remaining Muslim element into national Turkish nationals, which Turkey still dreams of until today. "Kemal celebrated his triumph with the change of Smyrna to the ash and the huge slaughter of the Christian population there," wrote Winston Churchill in his memoirs. The time of a proclaimed crime and even more necro-saving souls who have tried the bitterness of refugee, carved bodies, wounded souls and memories that so far demand justice and cleansing. In 1925, in his first literary book the young man then and later Nobel Prizeist Ernest Heminway dedicated his first novel entitled "In the seabed of Smyrna". Earlier as a war correspondent he has experienced the horror of Asia Minor disaster. In one of his last responses he writes, - that was the title - "Don't forget Greeks". This phrase was meant to remain indelibly indelible in time, a phrase with multiple readings, an urge to revive our own historical memory, a call for resistance to what they devour us as a nation, a promise of endless struggle for the vindication of unforgettable homelands and their people. So, let's not forget Greeks, let's make our time-consuming message to the inhabited world, and let's do our own debt. Greeks and Greek women don't forget! I would ask that one minute's silence be observed. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Standard (a) of 10.8.2020 Act of Legislative Content “Environmental arrangements to address the emergency needs of the National Health System, to protect against the dispersion of the CIVID virus -19, to support the labour market and facilitate the educational process” (A'157) and (b) of 22.8.20 Act of Legislative content “Extended measures to strengthen urban transport, to provide personal protection and to recruit cleanlinesers of the school units, to support tourist enterprises and the labour market and to strengthen the General Secretariat for Civil Protection in order to address the consequences of the COVID -19 pandemic, as well as to support the floods in the floods of 8 and 9 August 2020” (A'161). The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 10 September 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. As far as I am concerned, it was decided unanimously at the Conference that a derogation should not be made, not by analogy but by a free registration of colleagues who would like to speak. Therefore, as soon as the first rapporteur goes up, the system will be opened, once the second rapporteur from the SYRIZA party comes down, and then we will see how many colleagues have been registered, and so we will have a picture about when this particular meeting will end. On one request because there is information - if it responds to the reality - that a opposition party intends to request a roll-call vote, that we should know about it in time - not just for the President-in-Office but, above all, for the services of the House - so that we can prepare and not waste time. Is there any objection to what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u4	I would like to read Article 44(1) of the Constitution: ‘In exceptional cases of exceptional urgency and unforeseen urgency, the President of the Republic may, on a proposal from the Ministerial Council, adopt acts of legislative content.’. I would like it to be made clear in this House that there are indeed provisions within the specific acts of legislation, which are currently to be ratified, which are urgently confronted with issues of urgency. Mr President, are you not telling me that a provision dealing with the bus market, a provision relating to cleaning in schools, which is an unpredictable and extraordinary need? This is a violation of the constitution. I now tell you on the part of the Change Movement as an observation of a misdemocratic legacy, a scumbag, a barbaric. Next time, we'll object to unconstitutionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Loverdo, my unfounded intervention has been recorded. We're moving on. These are, of course, issues that can also be discussed in the Conference of Presidents and that we take decisions in this House. Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis, Member of the New Democracy and the rapporteur General, has the floor, and please open the registration system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis had his plan for the recovery of the Greek economy, following the consequences of the coronary pandemic, as well as the plan for strengthening defence and the Armed Forces in the midst of a Greek-Turkish crisis, the country's aid to land, air and pelagic with the seal of the New Democracy. At the same time, therefore, when the country is strengthened to land, air and sea, SYRIZA follows exactly the opposite course. The last group, published yesterday, testifies that the solid soil is constantly losing under its feet, while at the same time aerating ideologically and pivoting politically in the deep waters of extreme populism. We do not follow him because SYRIZA fails to understand that Greece of confidence is looking at the present and future and is not spent in the past, because it is unable to understand that while the government ensures the country's development prospects with 72 billion. Euros, while motivating employment, prioritises the working middle-class and protects households and businesses, while the country is upgraded digitally, reformed institutionally and administratively, shielded defensively and strengthened diplomaticly, SYRIZA himself remains obsessed with a lot of rhetoric, humiliated and worn, which does not "fly" the Greek people any more, a rhetoric that aims to produce no real opposition and fertile proposals, but to blur water once again, mock the ears and like everyone else. This attitude of the Officerate-General has been clearly demonstrated at meetings of the committees responsible for the draft legislation we are debating today. The rapporteur of the Officerial Response pointed out that "we do not invest in destruction, but instead we continue to regard as a national bet the retreat of the pandemic as a back and we are also a part of the collective effort of the Greek people to defeat this invisible enemy". The same rapporteur, who is not supposed to invest in the disaster, continued his argument, accusing the government of allegedly trying to directly undermine the country, of panic that sows with its actions and omissions, of allegedly a systematic concealment of incidents in popular tourist destinations, of supposedly conscious indifference, in order to control homes and structures, of allegedly failure and tragedy with regard to the tourist season in many Aegean islands and of allegedly using pandemic as a tool for the government to bring counter-educational provisions and counter-education policies. Has the so-called responsible opposition of SYRIZA been exploited in this argument, which puts my back on the pandemic? Of course not. The back that they put on has been widened with other consensual views during a discussion of the bill, that the government is manipulating SMEs, that it is not the global recession and the unprecedented global health crisis, but Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis who does not cut money to share it with the Greek people, that we are vindicating and treating business and tourist agents for whatever measures we have taken for the pandemic, that we have left the National Health System and is unable to deal effectively with pandemic, that we do not protect the student youth in the midst of pandemic, even that he has used the disaster in Euvia to do a communication show by the Prime Minister. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, investing in destruction and not putting back what else you would say, how much longer you would drugize the national effort, how much longer you would get more information. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, opposition to cucumbers and logical leaps are no good for the place and finally understand it. In the debate on this bill you still have the opportunity to show that you have come to mind, that you have matured politically, that you have the will to escape from the age of unbearable populism and genographies, which have been the only legacy left by your own rule. You still have the opportunity to realize that in this bill, the bet is not how you will succeed in forming a opposition account to save the pretexts of your ideological poverty, but how the affected Greek society will be protected and how economic activity will be revived at the time of pandemic. The draft law that we are discussing today does exactly that. It relieves financially and reassurs the employees, the vulnerable social groups, the households of the country. How? Maintaining jobs, giving fair compensation to those who are on a job suspension, moving towards reductions in rent for those who work in a company affected by the pandemic or even student apartments of their children who study at universities away from home, ensuring healthy employment relationships and labour conquests, such as Christmas and Easter gifts despite the enormous economic crisis. It ensures the viability and adaptation of the affected enterprises in the new circumstances. How's that? By covering the State's social security contributions to those who are suspended and by providing for a voluntary reduction of at least 30% of the total rent in their professional leases, as long as these as tenants are affected by the cases of the health crisis. It applies umbrellas to the unemployed, preventing redundancies in the private sector and extending unemployment benefits, specifically limiting the year 2020 to 50 instead of the days required for the regular unemployment benefit to the OAED unemployment insurance and encouraging new recruitments. All of these are fine letters for you, of course, as fine letters are the efforts of the New Democracy to unravel the National Health System against the pandemic. Efforts which you are trying to despair, slander and even slander in discussing the relevant arrangements of the draft law in committees. Really, ladies and gentlemen, have you not heard anything about doubling the Syriza's Syriza's Syriza Syriza's Syriza Syri Lanka's Syriza Syri Lankan Syros? Didn't you hear anything about the amplification of MPAs and emergency departments? Didn't you read in the provisions of the draft law anything to solve urgent issues of the EKB regarding the recruitment of medical and nursing staff to hospitals, to add new skills required by private doctors who can be employed to address the emergency needs in public hospitals? Have you read anything about the emergency service with private doctors and health centres, as well as the extension of various health professionals' contracts in EGE throughout the country? How do you really stand to do the white one all the time? Aren't you concerned that you are constantly disgusting in the consciousness of society, which is at war with common sense and reality? Do you find it a serious opposition, while the government brings legislation - a health shield against pandemic, do you fly mud into the fan for supposedly serving private interests by the government in relation to diagnostic tests? Didn't you hear that the priority for the tests is given to the public hospitals and the National Center for Blood? Didn't you hear that the absolutely necessary launching of the detection tests throughout the territory where eight hundred and a half thousand of us arrived, forced us to channel them to the specialized laboratories of the Pasteur Institute and the university hospitals? Didn't you hear that the New Democracy Government managed to secure the lowest price for tests that more than EUR 60 per sample at the beginning of the pandemic have managed to reduce it to EUR 10? Why are you being exposed like this? The same and worse opposition distortion you are trying to do in the field of education, accusing the government of not ensuring, supposedly, that the opening up of educational institutions is safe. First of all, it is disgraceful that you criticize the government, which no one knows your positions on the matter. You started by saying no to the telephony that we import for emergencies, even though it did wonders in the quarantine period, while you said yes to the opening of schools. Then you said no in opening schools without free masks. And when the government announced free school masks, you changed your mind again and said "not to open the schools unless the halls are increased and students are not reduced". It's the deposition of the theater of irrationality. Jonesko would really be jealous of you. And while the government is responsible for covering the gaps of teachers with the recruitment of temporary substitutes with fixed-term employment contracts and with extra modulation, in order to respond to possible emergencies and circumstances due to the coronary, you continue to irrationality and impair that we are allegedly dismantling the rights and blackmailing teachers. And what do you want? In order to meet an emergency need, to hire teachers for a year, because you are obviously galantic with the money of taxpayers, so, without the time still having seen the necessity of such a regulation, you have learned to be plundered by plundering and playing game with the work anxiety of each business sector. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government will leave no one behind in this crisis. We will all spend it together and we will all go out wiser and more united than ever with a program, but with determination, with housekeeping, consistently and wisely. The few who invest in destructive and backwardness are the same people who have learned in the years of their own governance to oppose the excellent effort, to mock the design, to let the development trains pass, to hide in front of the responsibilities, to conduct themselves with his logic "give me a bar" and to "press a pie to eat you". They are the same ones that sieved by them without touching them in Mandra and Matti, they are the same ones who said that it is not necessary for the affected to get the EUR 2,000 compensation from the murderous fire after they are being wasted and are now chasing the government that supports the Evia floods through the granting of a substantial tax-free allowance of EUR 5 000 for the natural and 8,000 euros for legal persons. They are the same ones that are placed daily more and more emphatically on the margins of the Greek people, who can forgive mistakes and omissions but do not forgive conscious stifling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u7	And I, Mr. Tsavdaridis, in fact of time. "Mr. President, we inform you that during the 1st parliamentary term we appoint as Parliamentary Representatives for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group the following Members: (a) Tsakalotos Euklidis, (b) Skourletis Panagiotis and (c) Ragusis Ioannis. I am grateful to the President of the SYRIZA Tsipras Alexis Parliamentary Group." The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, rapporteur of the New Democracy, the Prime Minister with his announcements in Thessaloniki did something else. He was right to say - it is characteristic of his phrase - that the government's logic is to make work more flexible, to help growth, clearly showing that the government's objective is at every opportunity, even on the occasion of a pandemic, to establish similar provisions. It is unacceptable, Minister, that the Greek people who put their backs on the successful treatment of pandemic in the first phase should be set up the next day with the back wall. For the first time, provision is made for unpaid and undeclared work and the recruitment of alternates by a three-month contract. And that's not all. Cut the Christmas gift for thousands of workers who have been suspended employment contracts. Already the tenth third wage, Easter gift and leave allowance had been eaten, you are now reducing the fourteenth, since it will be calculated on the basis of the special-purpose allowance, i.e. EUR 534, and not their nominal salary. You are still delaying the increase in the minimum wage, at least until the end of March 2021, and it has already been cancelled for this year. Prolong the suspension of contracts of employment and conversion of full-time and rotating work, essentially sowing the fear of redundancies. We, ladies and gentlemen, insisted on our speeches and - I would say - all the opposition and the representatives of the bodies that we heard in the committee withdraw these regulations. You have not responded, because you want at every opportunity, even on a pandemic occasion, to adopt such provisions. Without support, however, the New Democracy and the professionals are left with its well-known liberal treatment, whether they are suspended or affected by the government's pandemic and economic policy. Continue, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your lonely road, a road full of insecurity for the whole society. The examples are many. You opened tourism without a plan and without a massively mandatory test. You've completely failed. The responsibility recital given by the relevant Minister, Mr. Theocharis at the BBC, shows the fiasco in tourism. So who can believe you, Minister, when you replied to me the day before yesterday that you are hiding systematic cases of popular tourist destinations and leaving out of control sensitive areas, when the relevant Minister is complaining that the tourists at the same time disappear from the islands and, of course, let the coronary reap essentially in the structures and in the nursing homes? For fourteen months, SYRIZA has been shouting that the choice of incarceration of refugees and migrants on the islands and especially on Moria would lead not only to the eruption of cases but also to the stacked souls. You opened the schools today. And we wanted to open up. We've been through it many times. But we disagreed, because it is without any preparation. You haven't changed or improved anything in connection with the opening of June. The mask and the ice cucumber are still as unique prevention measures, if they exist everywhere. Instead of finding more rooms to reduce the number of students in order, Mrs. Kerameos raised him by stacking twenty-five to twenty-seven children in a few square meters. You are modifying the provisions on modern distance learning by introducing cameras into schools - unacceptable regulation, there is no way it can walk - despite the disapproval of the educational community as a whole. There are proposals put forward by teachers. Don't ignore them, Minister! In the Committee's debate, we have also raised many questions relating to the management of the pandemic. You did not reply, Minister, to a question that we have persistently put to the committee both by our Parliamentary representative and myself, on the decision of the Ministry of Health to carry out the molecular tests ordered by public hospitals in a particular private diagnostic centre which is related to a member of the Pandemic Experts Committee. Will you finally answer? Do not play crowns - letters with the health and safety of the Greeks in front of a new health crisis. The situation tends to get out of control. Stop finally considering the management of the pandemic communication game and turn it into a personal triumph of Mr. Mitsotakis. We have said this and said it again: we will support the battle of the Greek people in the second phase. However, in the face of this unprecedented irresponsibility shown by the government and the orchestrated propaganda that loads responsibility on the citizens, we will not remain silent, ladies and gentlemen. And I come to the tragedy of Evia, my special homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, eight of our fellow men have been wrongly lost. Infrastructural and networks have disappeared, property and living waste have been buried in the mud. For all this, there are responsibilities identified in the full absence of projects to prevent and manage affected areas. You will tell me that at this time it is important to alleviate the injured and to restore the damage. I will agree with you, but I cannot accept a phrase that is convenient for many. When disasters like the ones that we have experienced in Evia occur, they cannot respond with the words that there are time-consuming responsibilities and that they are stopped there, which means the spread of responsibilities with the end of amnesty. I shall refer to specific cases, because they must once again be documented and the responsibilities that lead to tragedies. In December 2019, the Delta of Lelada river, the main receptor of the waters of Dirfi, was flooded. A hundred and fifty families were removed preventatively, but Leilas sent the message to the relevant Regional Government of Central Greece, that he would return if the necessary cleansing and restoration works were not carried out. The region had the opportunity to respond with a specific project, since at the beginning of 2019 its economic committee had approved a specific decision of EUR 2,56 million for the restoration of the Lelada irrigation system and had committed that the competitive process would be completed in the near future. I present in the minutes the relevant letter dated 9 April 2019 of the region to the Ministry of Interior. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, people drowned waiting, while the assignment of the project is still pending. It is therefore a huge responsibility for the former and the current regional authority. Why has he shown such indifference in a project that would really save lives? Another incident. On August 13, 2019, we had the biggest fire in our country, Dirfi, in twenty-five thousand acres. On 27 August the Minister for the Environment, Mr. Hadjidakis, announced the immediate construction of the necessary anti-corruption and anti-military works. On 16 September, four sub-project studies amounting to EUR 1.65 million, which were adopted on 18 November. Only one project, amounting to EUR 76,000, has been carried out, even if it has worked effectively. The remaining three projects, amounting to EUR 1.57 million, were approved after eight months, i.e. July 2020, despite the agonizing letter of Mayor Dirfyon - Messapion since 22 November 2019 for a visit. I would also like to make the letter in question. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Ministry of the Environment reacted with a statement that the three required counter-military works were not carried out, confirming our own findings. However, the question was not answered: Why was the approval of these sub-projects delayed so much, when the studies were submitted eight months ago and when the procedure, following the adoption of the competition procedure, started at the end of July? An appeal was filed against the invitation to the Independent Prosecutor of Prosecutors, which was accepted on 5 August, i.e. five days before the tragedy. Another question. Because the competitive process did not take into account the fact that the region had been declared in an emergency and even in successive decisions in force until now, which not only makes it compulsory to accelerate the work in question but also gives the possibility of direct awards, as provided for in the relevant Law 4412/2016. Was the original announcement of the immediate construction of the works finally a bubble? There is a huge responsibility for the management of the tragedy in the view that the use of ‘112’ would cause panic. The Meteorological Service for three to four days referred to the risk of extreme phenomena in the region concerned. No evaluation has been made. From the eight to ten hours that lasted, they could not send a single warning to the affected people. It is certainly not just evacuation. He could warn the citizens with a targeted briefing. Unfortunately, there was nothing like that. For the next day, I could say a lot. The inhabitants are rebellious. They've already set up local committees and are preparing for mobilizations. We support their struggle, especially because the implementation of the promises that concern even the survival allowance is delaying. Only a hundred ten wounded to this hour by thousands of individuals and businesses have been considered beneficiaries of the legislative act. We stress this, although the money is not enough, we at this time, even the slightest aid, we feel, should be given. But what is, in fact, outrageous until now, is that there was not a single word said about the immediate treatment of the causes that caused this disaster and their inhabitants "live" snakes. The money was supposed to exist, as I said before, for the projects that were not done. Why is there the delay? Even now, at this time, the specific projects should be given through relevant procedures, so that we do not have a repetition of phenomena. It's been a long time before us. So, for everything we have said, ladies and gentlemen, we say no to the bill on the work of the pandemic on the 'depopulation' of workers' rights, on safety in education, on the unprojected opening up of schools. From that point on, we will monitor all procedures for implementing legislative acts, because our main objective is to tackle pandemic and defend workers' rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u9	Please prepare the Step for the next speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the speaker system has been closed. The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to wish a good school year in safety and health for students, teachers and parents. This year will be a critical year and we really hope that we do not have bad results, that everything will go well, that everything will be well, and that we do not have cases. As far as this legislation is concerned, this comes to ratify emergency measures to deal with the pandemic taken by the government in August to deal with the health crisis. Unfortunately, and this is another bad example of poor legislation, of parliamentary surprise, in your regular manner. This practice conceals a deep anti-democratic, arrogant attitude, disrespect for the parliamentary institutions, but also for Parliament's carelessness, which confirms that you are going to the pandemic as well as to'seeing and doing'. After a year of the honeymoon Parliamentary month and the body of problems with which we are faced today, from national to immigration to everyday issues, it is clear that the margins are now over. Unfortunately, today we are seeing another missed opportunity for the regeneration of the ESS and for the practical recognition of the efforts of its staff, for the support of the national economy, the affected sectors, workers, for the timely organisation of the educational process, for the protection of pupils and teachers and for the use of funds for the implementation of modern distance learning, for the efficient functioning of the state and for the coordination of its bodies on the basis of a uniform and long-term planning, but also for the rational management of public money and donations. Instead, the pandemic has proved to lead us in the past by permanentising the provision of funds by way of derogation from the provisions of public procurement and procurement, by squandering any institution that ensures transparency, integrity, public control, by sloppy hiring "days" by bypassing the ADP, and by implementing your neoliberal agenda to privatise public hospitals. At this point I would like to point out that your management of the pandemic in the second phase is totally epidermal, sketchy and fragmented. Although you have had all the time to organise yourself, to locate shortcomings and to organise the system, the deficit in the central planning and political direction is clear. You continue to legislate committees, to make announcements and to give responsibility to the logic of not taking political responsibility, leaving the country in practice undisturbed health. And you're trying to hide your inadequacy with communal tricks, hiding data on critical issues that concern your handling in the treatment of pandemic. In particular, in the health management field of the pandemic, you have known from the outset the shortcomings in health material and tests. You had all the time since March to launch their supply in good time. If you were having difficulty in practice, you were able to amend the provisions on public accounting and speed up the process and the way that they would ensure transparency and legality. Instead, under the pretext of the coronary, you are to legislate quickly, by way of derogation from the Public Procurement and Supplies Act. You also come today six months after the outbreak of the pandemic, with an amendment to set up a stock monitoring committee on personal protective equipment. You have wasted valuable time, because this had to have happened since March, unless you had misunderstood the situation and thought the pandemic was something that would pass. You come to prolong private doctors' contracts in public hospitals with 2,000 euros wages and broaden the specialties with some that are not related to the treatment of pandemic - you see the gynecologists - by opening the door of the ESS to private individuals and without giving any information about how many private doctors have joined up to today on this article of the legislative act and how much overall the cost is. You are renewing the contracts of family doctors, without any account being taken of their work and, above all, without any legislative provision for organising primary care structures, where they belong. You are turning staff contracts into full-time and full-time workers only into full-time, without telling us what their future is, if you first wanted to incorporate it into primary health care structures, as we have repeatedly proposed. You establish fragmentary arrangements, such as the e-prescription of antibiotics, when there are medical specialities that are not part of the system - you see dentists - and the extension of the frequency when no evaluation of its pilot application has been made, no problems have been identified and no extensive operation has been ensured. Finally, you confirm our concerns that the EGE experts have not had all the cases available to them and now, seven months later, you define their full access to the COVID Patents Register -19. Are you happy with the administrative function of the EGE? The protests that are being made to serve him through the phone center and the directions he gives to potential cases have you taken into consideration? We have been telling you for months about the need to monitor the situation in the closed accommodation structures of the elderly, the CYTs, the private clinics, the Security Body. EHR became aware of the situation when it started to get away, and it seems that it literally runs behind developments. To date, we do not know how much staff it employs and where, nor if there is an overall central planning based on which it operates, nor have you attempted to make corrective moves. In the case of tests carried out by private laboratories on behalf of hospitals, it is planned to charge hospital budgets. This will inevitably cause economic suffocation in hospitals and will therefore work against patients. You have chosen not to control dispersal in the population by carrying out more possible tests, despite the WHO directives. We first pointed out that you should integrate into your design, beyond existing diagnostic centres and research centres with molecular analysts. Unfortunately, you didn't hear us. This led to the overloading of the CSR, which recently came to state in writing its inability to respond to the test volume. On the other hand, you urged people to go to private diagnostic centres, to carry out tests, at too high a cost. You have not dared to put brakes on the prices of private workshops that were honoring willingly. We've arrived seven months after the lockdown and we're still talking about new IFs and MFFs. We've lost the bill now. How many ICU beds do we finally have today, when we see that the needs for patient hospitalisation in our country's ICUs and MIDs are growing rapidly? We will be led, as in the first phase of pandemic, to stop surgery for severe heart surgery, vasodilators, chest surgery, neurosurgeons, oncology, and to convert the existing ITH beds into COVID-19 treatment beds. The delay in the creation of new ICUs in public hospitals shows what we fear: that until the pandemic erupted, you only made communication management of deficits. Seeing the number of cases daily to be three-digit, you come with the soul in the mouth to put in front of the machine to create new IFs, speeding up the urban processes. I hope that this does not involve derogations to the safety of buildings and reductions to their conditions that will jeopardise the safety of patients. Your sloppyness is seen by the way you manage donations. We have proposed a permanent mechanism for managing them with the participation of the House, ensuring the speed and transparency of procedures through accountability. We have asked you for data to be used to date for equipment and the creation of ICUs, for the provision of personal protective equipment and sanitary equipment for hospitals. You have given no evidence, although donations are a golden opportunity for the effective reinforcement of the ESS and brave funding of its rebirth. It's a drug accident, too. From the beginning of your governance, you have been talking about the need to rationalise clawback and about the chain distortions that this causes in the pharmaceutical market. The Vice-President of the EEAS itself spoke of the crucial reason for the organisation in this direction and about the role of high clawback and the delay in entering new innovative medicines into the Greek market. What's happened to this day? You continue the practice of the previous ones with ribbons and pretexts. Although the pharmaceutical industry has an important role to play in the health chain and in rationalising the pharmaceutical expenditure, which has once again escaped by 27% in 2020, and by the retention of EEA expenditure, you have done absolutely nothing. We have asked you for a cross-party committee on the matter with full information on all aspects of the matter, so that concrete action can be taken by codecision of the parties on the steps to be taken, but you refuse. You prefer to keep the pharmaceutical industry hostage and the EEAS charm in launching the pharmaceutical cost with aspirin measures. I remind you, in 2009, the PASOK came to collect the unleashed New Democracy. Then it was 6.9 billion pharmacological expenditure, its excess. It should also be noted that your only care for the functions of the giant EOPYY is to secure poster and independent office of the vice president. I hope now that his problems will be resolved. But when will we finally be serious as a country? In the field of education you have shown the same curiosity. Instead of planning the start of the school year as early as May, focusing on pandemic in school units and as uninterrupted as possible on the conduct of the educational process, you left the time to pass and to throw the responsibilities on to parents, students and with a unique measure of protection the use of a mask and a cucumber. No preventive planning for increasing rooms, for smaller classes in number of pupils, for plexiglass protection, for shifts where increased cases occur, to ensure funds for cleaning in the municipalities. No care is taken to ensure technological means for students who will be forced to enter the distance learning process nor natural financial support for the computer purchase. You have left public education for the ordinary citizen a ballast. Your pretext also differs from the measures to strengthen the economy. No substantial measure to reduce VAT on the focus. No measure for the development and substantial reduction of businesses and citizens who experience its consequences. Only labour costs are for you the way of alleviating and not reducing the extermination taxes imposed in the years of memoranda in businesses and free trade. Even the preventive rental reduction for the months September to December comes slowly and, indeed, without encouraging the consent of the leasers. In tourism in particular, the government's management was absolutely unsuccessful. You opened the border, succumbing to the pressures of travel agents, without mandatory tests at the gates of entry, anticipating revenue. Without wishing to reduce the importance of this revenue for our country's economy, however, we believe that the opening up of tourism in the way you did, created many health problems and filled the country with imported cases. You failed to preserve our tourism product and our population. In addition, you failed to manage and communicate the situation, so that our islands were included in the blacklist of countries with a worse record than us in the management of a pandemic. As far as the management of immigration is concerned, your policy seems to have no plan. While stressing Moria's need for decongestion, the problem put it under the rug, until unfortunately it broke out in the worst possible way. This picture we are watching in Lesvos is the shame of Greece and the European Union. You must take all the necessary initiatives at national and European level to stop the suffering of refugees, migrants and our fellow citizens from these regions. While you abolished the Ministry of Immigration, you re-established it for the purpose of managing the immigration, but it proved in practice that all you wanted was to manage funds with direct assignments and staff recruitment by opaque procedures. We have pointed out to you the risk of the virus spreading into these structures and the need for systematic monitoring of possible cases within them. You didn't do anything, and right now we're faced with a health bomb in Lesvos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I need another minute. Finally, in the area of work, you continue to legislate in the same pattern: the cost of pandemic to workers in every way. Workers are treated by your Government as a burden and not as a pillar of the company, while you are opening the way to legalising flexible forms of work, choosing with a purely class mark, anti-developmental direction and conservative logic. Minister, while pandemic is riding in its second phase, presenting a three-digit daily number of cases, the government proves awkward, cowardly and - I fear - to be fatal in intercepting it. You do small dispositions and "bumps", you take fragmentary measures and make simple management of a situation, without preventing it, with its logic by seeing and doing it. You are very much talking about national self-confidence, without being able to coordinate the ministries, institutions and state with each other. We'd love to make it happen, but your government's actions in the second phase of pandemic are disgusting to you. For these reasons, we will vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u11	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Greek Prime Minister's announcements from Thessaloniki are the "l want" of business groups. He has announced measures that already exist for our people. It is the workers and the people who have loaded the tragic consequences of the pandemic and the new capitalist crisis, and they have certainly made their lives worse. However, measures which, on the other hand, continue to dive into business groups with warm money paid by our workers and people with constant cuts and tax burdens and exempt them from taxes and levies. The recovery plan, the Pissaridis project, to which the Prime Minister referred, is a major capital project that further reduces the value of the labour force and speeds up the attack on workers, in particular, by strengthening the flexibility in labour relations and the privatisation of insurance, continuing from where SYRIZA stopped by the Katrugalo law. He claimed that it would favour young workers, as all previous governments claimed, elastic employment relationships, three hours, four hours, part-time work, employment opportunities, as they said, the reduction of the minimum wage and all anti-corruption measures would favour young people. That's what all governments have been telling them in the past few years. This policy of supporting the capital and its needs created the working jungle, and young people from a generation of 700 euros "supported" and became a generation of 400 euros, without working hours, without collective agreements, without structured labour and insurance rights, with the nightmare of unemployment breaking the dreams of the new generation. This is the task of all the governments of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, who meet the needs of the great capital. They incorporate any conquests of the labour movement, to strengthen social automation, to turn children towards parents, to create a climate of tolerance to anti-government policy. The Pissaridis project, the flexible labour relations, the capitalisation system, the completion of the Pinochet model are claims of business groups and must find against the new workers, the self-employed, the retired, the whole working class. Public health announcements show the government's determination to maintain the public health system intact, with enormous shortages in doctors and other health staff, with shortcomings in the necessary logistics infrastructure, to continue its commercialisation policy, to strengthen public-private partnerships, to support business groups in health. This policy with measures -'spirins' in the face of the spread of pandemic and the state of the health system is deadly for the people. The increase in cases, deaths, intacts, is precisely due to the policy of limiting costs for people's health, the adaptation of health protocols to the needs of business groups, and the so-called application of measures has as a criterion the logic of cost, resulting in reductions to the nullification of critical protocols, such as the most important and critical, as scientists say, for the non-supplier of the virus, the measure of distance. Workplaces, factories, hospitals, nursing homes, various structures of refugees and migrants without the necessary measures proved to be sanitary "bombs" as well as means of transport, aircraft ships, buses where one is on the other. You have even concealed the information of the inhabitants of the islands and regions, at the request of business groups, so that the regions are not targeted and the tourist groups are reduced. Even the tragic situation in schools with the stringing of pupils, up to twenty-seven per class - based on arrangements that you have voted for because you do not want to spend on new rooms and the recruitment of teachers and cleaners, with a lack of individual protection for pupils and teachers - confirms our claim that the most of all health, which you say, is for consumption. This bill serves this policy of limited expenditure for the protection of the people, is the specialization of the Prime Minister's announcements with measures for the public health system, work and education, which aggravate the situation, as well as the position of workers and people's classes. These are measures of a lasting nature which, in the face of the new crisis, make use of pandemic to load the consequences on workers and the people. The Government's choice, as shown in the draft ‘standardisation of legislative acts and other provisions’, was to strengthen health trade, public-private partnerships, to reverse the conditions of pay and work. Instead of recruiting permanent full-time and full-time staff, it provides for the extension of private doctors' employment to public hospitals, a regulation which does not solve the problem of subsistence, and which is another measure which is part of the policy of further trade in health. In addition to the tragedy examples we have with the molecular control equipment that goes from Syros to Attica, from Xanthi to Thessaloniki and elsewhere, you are also legislate on transferring special equipment for intensive care and care facilities, because we do not want to do the ICUs, as the World Health Organisation says, to three and a half thousand. By article, you bring the evaluation of hospitals. The aim is to privatise and configure the health system, its function based on European standards, i.e. the health systems that collapsed as paper towers in front of the pandemic, leaving thousands of patients with COVID -19 out of beds, apart from hospitals, with many of them dying in their homes or to choose whom the sanitaries will take the lead. Another gift is provided for the pharmaceutical industry by abolishing the entry amount for medicinal products applying for admission to the positive list. Another article provides for the amount of monthly pharmacy expenditure and confirms the maintenance of public pharmacy expenditure of approximately 2 billion. The huge reduction in public pharmacy expenditure is translated by a take-off of private spending on medicines for the people's family. The article on the introduction of a system of remuneration of hospitals on the basis of an integrated system of remuneration per incident and the codification of medical operations are arrangements so that the public health system can be adapted even better to the good operation. The absence of the necessary workers from the Ministry of Health is dealt with by the Government by suspending the examination of applications for personnel in the context of mobility and by refusing to satisfy the needs of the workers for their movement. And the coroner feeds the profits. Not a single measure was taken to pay the business groups. The consequences have been borne on the workers, on the people by legislative acts and measures added to all the previous memoranda and constantly exacerbating the lives of the workers and the people. Legislative acts in this draft law extend the "COMPANY - WORK" antique programme, which generalises flexibility and reduces wages by over 20%. It also extends the suspension of contracts of employment at least until the end of October, while continuing to exempt employers from obligations towards workers, even from pay, with the bill overturning eight hours and the calculation of gifts. The worker during the quarantine, unless telework is applied, will be obliged, on the basis of the forecasts, to make up half the working hours with unpaid overtime per day, beyond contractual hours. Instead of introducing special leave with full pay and contributions, when workers are forced to quarantine in order to protect public health, they come and punish them with unpaid overtime. With a new anti-government arrangement it changes the calculation of the Christmas gift, since it is planned to be based on the allowance of EUR 534 and not on the standard salary. It takes the first step towards the liberalisation of overtime, without a relevant ministerial approval decision, while unemployment breaks down and when massive contract suspensions and wage reductions are imposed. Instead of limiting the ability of businesses to impose overtime, the government solves their hands even more for workers' working hours. The minimum wage configuration is switched to the end of March of '21, prolonging the freezing to the levels of 2019. The demand for the minimum wage to be reinstated at EUR 751 is considered to be maximist by the Government of New Democracy, as is the case with SYRIZA by the law of Ahchioglou. We want to note, to hear them and the workers who are following us, that the minimum wage was EUR 751 11 years ago, in 2009! And you are saying today that this is a pillistic request. By regulation, you give the shipowners the signal to suspend the compulsory ten-month route of ships, to reduce even further the routes and to increase the intensification of seafarers with exhaust hourly hours, by ranking the shipowners of the ferry to companies affected by the coronary - we stress that during the summer there was 85% completeness - with the suspension of the seamen's contract and an allowance of EUR 534. Workers and islanders will suffer the consequences of this arrangement. The government baptises the work of the same cleaners and cleaners, who have been working daily in schools with all kinds of hostage relationships. The Government does not guarantee the staff necessary for cleaning and, together with other shortcomings in education staff and protection measures, puts pupils, teachers and parents at risk. It establishes new flexibilities in education with the recruitment of three-month contracts for all school staff, for teachers, special scientific and special assistant staff, subject to recruitment in the statement that they are healthy and do not belong to vulnerable groups. Those who do not accept recruitment under these conditions are punishable by exclusion from subsequent recruitment. The bill brings the unacceptable regulation of distance education which does not fall under any pedagogical criterion, violates the personal data of students and teachers and has the universal opposition of teachers and parents. The Government also implements its unacceptable decision not to award the restrained retrospectives for the 11th month of June 2015, as provided for in the Decision of the Council of State. Of the 4 billion retroactive masters, supplementary pensions and gifts provided for in the decision, the Government pays only retroactively major pensions of 900 million for private sector pensioners and 500 million for public sector pensioners, as provided for in Article 6. The government is hampering the millions of pensioners, especially those who have drawn up less than 1,000 euros. Food - tourism and culture workers were the biggest victims of this period. The government did not provide income for everyone, and for those who secured it, they were not decent. Many were left without any protection, and the lucky ones live at 9 euros a day! Instead of introducing the unemployment subsidy of EUR 600 without conditions, it reduces insurance for the grant of the unemployment benefit for food - tourism in 50 days. This regulation leaves thousands of workers out of food - tourism who do not have the prerequisites, and thousands in culture who, due to the restrictive measures, have no day of insurance. We said public transport was health bombs, since passengers are moving with great delays and on each other. Instead of directly squeeze on the roads, particularly in peak hours, instead of making the necessary recruitments, instead of directly renewing the fleet of vehicles and obtaining the spare parts necessary for repairs of vehicles, the Government comes and promotes further strengthening business activity in urban transport and the direct involvement of individuals by means of public-private partnerships. Finally, the situation in Evia remains explosive. The residents are still struggling with the mud and in despair. The EUR 600 announced by the government for the first needs is an unacceptable amount. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. The 5,000 euros do not respond to the disasters they have suffered. The residents are asking for the compensation to be 100% of the losses. They require immediate measures to restore, return the compensation and other requests that we have already submitted and we will now be tabling in the Minutes. The people of the region and the whole of the people need to overthrow this policy, which, apart from unemployment, poverty and impoverishment, burns us and drowns us, because the necessary anti-nuclear and anti-military works that will save lives, but will not bring profits, will not be eligible. This policy follows all governments. If we list the disasters from fire and floods throughout Greece only in the last decade, then we will find the responsibilities of all of you, Mr Apostle. Workers - self-employed need to break fear and stand against this policy pursued by governments in fulfilling the demands of major business groups, and organise their struggle to claim their own needs by opening the way for profound changes. As far as we are concerned, the JRC will take the lead in the fight for the protection of life and the rights of workers. We are voting against the draft law and we are making a request for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 10, 17 and 18. We are also tabling the documents that we have already submitted to committees concerning the demands of the people of Evia, the demands of workers in tourism - food, the demands of workers in culture and, of course, the framework of the trade unions' demands on the modern needs of workers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u13	Until the Step is cleared, I announce that forty fellow speakers have been registered. By counting time and now that there will also be a roll-call vote, which will be best calculated at 21.00' and the worst at 22.00', plus about an hour that the agency needs to complete the vote, the rest of the articles, we reach 23.00'. Parliamentary Control contains seventeen topical questions, four and a half hours. You are aware that parliamentary control cannot be done today. It is being transferred for the next Monday, along with the timely question that exists in the programme. We won't start this afternoon next Monday. We'll start at noon, and it'll all happen together. I say this now so that if some colleagues have a timely question at night, you will know that it is postponed until Monday. The reason is now the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is facing at least four major problems to an exaggerated degree, not compared to any other country in terms of their size. In our view, there would be no such problems or they would not have evolved so badly if it resolved the first one radically immediately after it appeared, i.e. the economic sector, where there were relatively easy solutions before the signature of the PSI and the third memorandum. These problems currently focus on the economy, national, health and education, having accumulated mainly over the last decade as a result of the crime of the memoranda. As far as the first, the economy is concerned, there is still a solution for Greece, which is no other than the increase in public investment, so that private investment will follow, as is usually the case. In this way, we would turn the coronary crisis into an opportunity, including the crisis with Turkey, which enables us to revive our defence industry and be supported by the European Union, of course, by changing our economic model and by significantly increasing the Public Investment Programme in the regular budget so that we can also make good use of the co-financed projects of the ESDP and the CFP. As far as the required funds are concerned, only an economic staff with accounting perceptions would maintain a pillow of 38.7 billion euros as a reserve, which at all means nothing, when Greece has such great investment needs, at a time when international capital is higher than ever, it is urging investment opportunities, while interest rates will remain negative for many more years. If investment is made with this money, public investment in the sectors that we need, our GDP will increase, so we will reduce our debt ratio in terms of GDP, of course, and our credit rating. In any case, it makes no sense to a country that loses the war to maintain military forces as a reserve. This is really the end of foolishness. On the other hand, the healthy growth that would be caused by public investment, as well as the private ones following it in law, buried, on the one hand, wages, without affecting the competitiveness of our economy, on the other hand, the prices of our private assets, such as real estate, shares, etc., of which has been lost over a trillion euros over the last ten years, almost six hundred billion euros from the low real estate prices on the basis of a previous report by CEDIT SUISSE. So, on the one hand, our private debt would be reduced as a percentage of our assets - this is the most important - on the other hand banks would be cleared, because the values of their guarantees would be increased, as well as their profitability, since they could once again lend the businesses and households that would have recovered their creditworthiness. The question of the banks will of course concern us much in the future, mainly because the stress tests, which have been carried out, have been carried out with much less recession. We'll see that in front of us. The bill, as we mentioned at the first meeting of the committee, includes the following. Firstly, the FPI from 10-8-2020 to 20 articles on the extension of the employee subsidy, in particular the tourism sector with the FAO programme, the costs and supplies of the Ministry of Health to deal with the pandemic, as well as individual regulations on antisemitics, distance education and the CSTs. Secondly, the PPP from 22-8-2020 to 13 articles, concerning the very important and quite delayed moves to improve urban transport, to protect schools against the pandemic, to reinvigorate facilities for the tourism sector - continuously the tourism sector - as well as civil protection issues. Thirdly, further provisions with fifty-four articles covering the extension of the rent reduction measure, additional measures in the 2020 budget, ODA matters, in addition to the extension of COVID-19 aid, the FINANCIAL WORK, the Christmas gift, the reinforcement of artists, the staffing of the Ministry of Education, the strengthening of the nursing system, transport issues, the reclassification of adolescences, the facilities of civil servants, as regards the pandemic, the reinforcement of seafarers and payments for social tourism. In other words, there are eighty-seven articles in total, together with those in the MDG, which are already in place, without any one questioning them. Today's debate, especially with regard to the MAGPs, is clearly a pretext. On the articles now, I will say: the first article of the MGP from 10-8-2020 extends the coverage of contracts on suspension, i.e. non-working allowances for two more months, for August and September, because it seems that the assessments at the celebrity opening of tourism, with the well-known Fiesta of Santorini, have been disproved. In any case, failure substantiates the problems of tourism and its dependence on the mass model, and it was the reason that the government was pressed for the uncontrolled opening of borders to the detriment of the health of the Greeks, to the detriment of the health of all of us. It was, of course, impossible for tourism to function, when everyone is terrified, and even domestic tourism has not been strengthened in time enough, despite the fact that we have proposed it from the outset. At first thirty million were given, then a hundred. The second article itself extends the programme 'COMMUNICATION - WORK' for two more months - in August and September - while the number of workers who can be subject to it is increasing due to the failure to provide tourism. In this respect, no cost is provided by the General Accounting Office of the State, while a subsequent arrangement in Article 13 is extended until the end of the year. In any case, as far as both of these articles are concerned, we have always supported the change in our economic and tourism model, so it should be estimated how many workers should remain in tourism, possibly with benefits and incentives to the other sectors, such as primary, manufacturing, defence industry and high technology, to increase their jobs and hire them. We have said many times that the economic model of Israel is the most suitable for our country. Continuing to the second MDG from 22-8-2020, Article 7 extends the grace period for cheques, recalling that this measure had just been tabled for the first time, we stressed that this is a semimeter because at some point the checks have to be paid. How will this happen, though, when businesses do not have a turnover? Our proposal, which has unfortunately not been heard, and now we have the problem again, was their mid-term financing. As regards Article 8 itself, it makes sense to increase distance work. Should we not, however, take measures on Internet connections, which are the most expensive in Europe, as we have in the Minutes in committee? We've stressed it too many times. We have very precise connections. It's unacceptable. Further to the other provisions, Article 3 extends social policy with the money of others by reducing occupational and household rents for those who suffer 40% by September, which means that the owners are being persecuted. Article 4 provides for the optional reduction of 30% of rent by the end of the year. We said that the idea of optional indirect taxation is really bizarre, and it seems that it is not understood that there is a conflict between the tenants and their owners. This conflict, caused by the government deliberately, is very serious. Such a reduction, however, amounts to 48% tax, which is essentially confiscation. Which owner will do so without a corresponding compensation from the state? Italy also subsidises rents, but with state money, not those of the owners. Furthermore, Article 5 gives some relief for lost rents. However, these reductions certainly do not cover the losses of the owners. With regard to Article 6, with the 2020 budget supplement, costs of EUR 6.1 billion are entered, of which EUR 4.7 billion are support measures, because of the pandemic, while EUR 1.4 billion are pension retroactives. On Saturday, however, the Prime Minister announced measures of EUR 6.8 billion, so they have already increased. The Finance Minister, of course, mentioned EUR 6.36 billion, along with the repayable advance, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Since it seems now that the government has lost the account with the measures it is announcing, we will submit an article in the Minutes with the enormous differences, which one has, on the other, incredibly big differences, nothing to do with each other. Unfortunately, the finance and development ministries expose the Prime Minister with their mistakes. As far as Article 10 is concerned, this is about ninety-six hours of quarantine that will take a long time to pay off, so we think it is right that these days should be handled in the same way as days of illness. Continuing with Article 13, what will happen after the extension of the 'Cooperation - WORK' by the end of the year? Will they be paid by the public zombie business until tourism returns to 2019 levels? Should we not be careful that the country does not go bankrupt in our attempts to ensure that tourism does not go bankrupt? Article 17 provides the possibility of giving the Christmas gift to workers who have been suspended. The cost paid by the General Accounting Office of the State is EUR 611,45 million, while, as we understood from the Prime Minister's statements, which we will present in the Minutes, included the EUR 460 million that will be granted to pensioners in addition, due to the new pension calculation. We would like here to ask if this really is the case, because it is our question. In Article 21 it is not fair for the individual to resign from his claims towards the public, so he finds us negative. Also, in Article 22, the terms of equality and dignity are being violated, and for Article 23 we wonder how many other committees are wanting the JTIs and at what cost. In particular, as far as the provisions of the Ministry of Development and Article 3 of the second part concerning the import of denatured alcohol are concerned, it is of course necessary to extend the power, and we are the first to ask for it. The last bill, before the House closed, this for the PPPY, was extended to produce antiseptics by 31-12-2020, so it makes sense that ethyl alcohol should be imported. It's just that the Minister hadn't predicted, as he should have, and he's doing it now. Has he really considered production in Greece, such as sugar, where the Greek sugar industry is in a curious situation, so that we import sugar from Germany? As regards the duration of the extension until 31/12-2020 is limited because it assumes that the pandemic will end, or is there going to be adequate domestic market? In relation to the Ministry of Health, Article 32 allows the Minister only to determine the reimbursements for private health service providers, which may be important. Does anyone really think it's right? We will not talk about the issues of the Ministry of Infrastructure, since there is no time. We have, however, analysed in committee the problems of his articles and our great objections. We will only say that in Article 44 of Part F we are positive about the pilot operation of electric buses to identify problems. Our proposal was to investigate the possibility of co-production by ELVO, which is unnecessarily inactivity, and is able to produce too many things. For example, the Chinese "YOTONG" bought the Serbian "IKARBUS" and will produce there with electric buses, so this can happen in Greece too. The rest of the articles now. As far as Article 25 of the Ministry of Education is concerned, we were impressed that the General Accounting Office refers to a cost of EUR 200 million for 2020-2021 for recruitment with coverage from a co-financed public investment programme. Is it possible to use the public investment programme, our unique capacity to invest and to develop our economy for staff payments? It is completely unacceptable. To close, in Part IV, concerning the Ministry of Migration and Asylum with Articles 18 and 19, money is given by the Greek State for contracts of employment in the Cyts and for speeding up asylum applications, but there are continuous inputs. We recall that Greece accepted seventy-five thousand asylum applications in 2019, when it is in the United States there is a maximum of eighteen thousand. Do we really think that makes sense? Should the government not ask how many people our bankrupt country can host from these unfortunate people, which Turkey sends us, let alone companies turn to the pandemic, tourism in Nadir, and unemployment, should go back to the scary levels of the past? The German parliament has, however, recently decided not to host anyone, as we will testify in the Minutes. On this occasion, we will raise the issue of military corrections, which Germany owes us over EUR 300 billion, which seems to have been forgotten. It is something that we will repeat all the time, since it is money, which belongs to us, and we must finally claim. For everything that we have analysed here and in the committees, we will vote against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u15	I would like to inform the House that a request for a roll-call vote was tabled by the SYRIZA parliamentary group, which is on the same articles, which the Communist Party of Greece had asked for, but not at the outset. It will be photocopied and distributed to the rapporteurs. We'll close the list of speakers with Ms. Maria Apatzides from Mera25. Here, Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a fundamental remark, which, however often repeated, never ceases to be of central importance. Once again, the country is governed by legislative acts. This practice was intensified during the memoranda and continues today, on the occasion of the COVID -19 pandemic. In fact, this is a strategic choice of the Memorandum governments. Under normal circumstances, the very exceptional measure of the act of legislation describes small and exceptionally urgent areas. Under the present circumstances, the invoicing of exceptional circumstances by a government is not convincing as the two acts of legislation contain a large number of provisions, which have little to do with the exceptional circumstances. In fact, we are facing a reset of the entire state by waves with the role reserved to Parliament and the legislative process to be the least possible. Needless to comment on whether this is good legal practice or whether it describes a real respect for the institutional process. It is worth noting, however, that we are being imposed by a government which is taking on its own purpose and institutional consciousness. This is a distortion that goes on. It needs to be stopped, because there is a risk to parliamentarianism and, ultimately, to democracy itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the country and society as a whole face a serious threefold crisis: health, social and economic. This bill does not present an integrated plan and is not an integrated crisis prevention and crisis response intervention. On the contrary, if something reveals the forecasts contained in this bill, it is the fact that the government, despite all the tension and the duration of the pandemic crisis, has not succeeded in overcoming its ideological preferences and sincerely dealing with the preservation and immunization of the national health system. It is not negligence, but it is an option to delay the necessary measures to strengthen the public health system with the necessary recruitment and to ensure the necessary logistical infrastructure. The constant shortages in doctors, nurses and any necessary staff are the subject of action which the government should have put into priority over the past few months. We, as a PARTA25, had already called in March for the immediate recruitment of seven thousand permanent nurses and doctors, but we were not heard. Even now, after August's experience, the government does not take the decisive step of mass free tests. It is trapped by its ideological strangles that the government cannot - most importantly - solve the problem, it leaves public health weakened and the people unprotected. For the dramatic conditions that have been created, it is not the responsibility of an invisible virus or some force of nature, but the very specific and absolutely visible in terms of the consequences and effects of the political crisis management on the part of the government. It is this manifestation of the political exercise of neoliberalism, which increases cases and is this policy, which does not guarantee the health of students who are stacked from today in school halls, with only a mask and your well-advertised porpoise. The mask is an essential measure, but it is complementary. The main prevention measures are non-cohesion, distance observance and reduction in the number of pupils per class, which requires the immediate appointment of teachers. Instead of reducing at least half the number of pupils per class, the government, however, increased them by two, even at the same time as reducing the number of people in supermarkets and in all enclosed areas by imposing fines of EUR 150. The government has a duty to listen to society's strong concern about the opening up of schools, to assume its responsibilities, and to do so self-evidently to protect the health and safety of pupils, teachers and their families. A similar culture characterised by delays and omissions is also observed in urban, public transport, which are a social asset and an integral part of the daily life of citizens. It is clear that restrictive measures require more and more frequent routes to serve citizens and ensure their health and safety. The lack of frequent routes resulted in the crowding of citizens on buses to an unauthorized extent. The government is now late to talk about increasing the frequency of existing routes, the rental of buses and the staffing of urban transport, after months of unauthorized its own negligence. It is the attitude itself, the ideological priorities themselves and the resulting political management, which increase unemployment and deepen the recession in the economy. Attributes are the elements of the half-yearly economic climate survey by the Institute of Small Enterprises of the General Confederation of Professionals, Crafts and Traders of Greece. Eight out of ten companies stated that their company's financial situation was deteriorating in the past six months. The economic climate index was shaped at 20.1 points by recording a fall of forty-six units in just a semester, which reflects the depth of the economic crisis. Eight out of ten companies said their turnover and liquidity decreased in the previous six months. One in five companies has arrears of debts to the banks. One in four companies is unable to meet its public and insurance obligations. One in three companies, which has rent, has late debts. One out of four companies has arrears of debts in energy accounts, and one out of five has arrears in other accounts, such as telephone and water. Deforestation of small enterprises is equivalent to deforestation of any medium-sized remains left out of the ten-year economic and Memorandum crisis, seriously jeopardising the maintenance of social cohesion. The expectations and forecasts for the next six months are just as bleak, specifying a future uncertain and colored with black colors. One in three small and micro-enterprises express fear of a possible interruption in their activity over the next period. One out of four companies stated that the next period would not be able to meet its credit obligations towards banks and all kinds of rent. One in five companies will not be able to meet tax and insurance obligations, as will the obligations of suppliers, energy bills and other accounts. In addition, more than 60% of enterprises have declared that they are little or not satisfied with the government's measures so far, of course, which is not surprising, as the government is not interested in the small and medium-sized enterprise. The government is interested in the powerful and few. Finally, on the basis of the survey data, a hundred and seventeen thousand jobs have been lost in the past six months, and it is estimated that in the next six months, a hundred thousand additional jobs are at risk of being lost. It is particularly worrying that ELSTAT has made public about unemployment. In particular, the seasonally structured unemployment rate in June was 18.3%, the highest in the last sixteen months. The highest rates are widely recorded among young people between 15 and 24 years of age when unemployment reached 40%. It should be pointed out that people who are suspended from the contract are still considered as employed, if the period of suspension is less than three months or receive more than 50% of their remuneration. The worst is in front of us, which the government knows well. The previous evidence indicates that the measures taken by the government are totally inadequate. The Prime Minister's announcements at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition do not really ease the pain of society from the consequences of the crisis and do not bring Greece out of the path of economic collapse. At the same time, at the same time, the government is postponing the increase in the minimum wage, it is prolonging the depreciating "Consumables - WORK" programme, which provides for wage cuts and reduces the Christmas present. The fact that the government's forecasts are not capable of dealing with the magnitude of the recession, which has arisen, comes to stress the supplementary state budget for 2020, which is included in the bill. The budget appropriations for the current year are increased by about six billion euros. We remind you that Mera25 has accurately predicted the magnitude of the recession months ago, when the government originally spoke of stable GDP, 0% recession later, about failure to estimate the recession and finally about numbers, which now prove to be not responding to the reality. Why is it important to confirm the projection of Mera25 for a total recession of at least 10%, which, after the final revisions of ELSTAT in mid-2021, will prove to have reached a minimum of 15%? Because these figures have been in force in the fifth memorandum, which has been detailed in the House since spring. We hope not to be confirmed. We fear, however, that this will also be the case with the state budget deficit, which in 2020 will exceed 12%, due to a drastic reduction in GDP, a review in the coming spring of the state deficit, which will reach a minus 15%, is reminiscent of the course that led to the first memorandum. And a surplus not to demand from the government of Mr Mitsotakis that troika, a heavy programme of supplementary pension cuts, wages, public investment and expenditure on education, is seen as a given one. The need for an extraordinary budget increase is related to these developments. If the government were based on the assessments of the Secretary of Mera25 Yiannis Varoufakis and not on extra-real and more disguised than actual estimates of the relevant ministers, programming would be much more timely and effective and the provision for the future would be characterized by more wisdom. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not only a danger to democracy, but also a risk to poor legislation by means of acts of legislation and inadequate measures by the government, and the anti-democratic attitudes, which are gradually being developed in parts of society. The government's attempt to politically capitalise the first phase of the management of the health crisis and the spasmist movements during the distorting attempt to restart the economy and open tourism led the government to contradictions. Its strategically selected will was to transfer the responsibilities for the consequences of its own decisions and mismanagement of its own citizens, seeking to make them guilty. The attempt to incriminate citizens, the untrustworthyness of the government and the loss of any confidence citizens had in it is a operative cause of the emergence of wider civilizations. These tendencies are reinforced by the climate of insecurity and uncertainty, which is fuelled by the government by its decisions and policies. A climate of distrust develops in society when the government has now ceased to convince itself of its credibility and its citizens have lost their confidence in it. Finally, the tragedy in Moria is also a danger to democracy. The transformation of a humanitarian crisis into health and the inability to manage the health crisis leads consciously to half-humanity and repression. Moria is confusing the lost hopes and defiance of the hopes of hunted people, as well as the effort to deal with them by the government, through an emergency situation. The fire in Moria can also be seen as a symptom, as a coincidence of disintegration in Europe, if not institutional, certainly moral. Let's all think about it. We are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. The cycle of general and special speakers has been completed. We're going to six colleagues, which is interchangeable per party. I'm recognizing the first six. Mr Liupis, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Mr Katrinis, Mr Lambroulis, Mrs Athanasios and Mrs Adamopoulou. Mr Liupis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish a good new school year for students, teachers and parents, with health and safety for all. I particularly wish the educational power, optimism, inspiration and endurance to their difficult teaching work. Back to shredding is done with special care, with sanitary measures, listening to the teachers' instructions, following all the experts' instructions. There have been contemplated movements for the smooth operation of school units with all protection measures that can be taken. Schools open up because they are not only a place of education for our children, but they are points of social association, necessary for their balanced development. Free masks for all students and teachers, with the possibility of recruiting assistant teachers to meet potential emergencies, except for the permanently launched needs. Remote distance education is a one-way path in specific cases for special classes of pupils or in suspension or rotation of a training structure. The Government must ensure that all pupils continue to have access to education under any circumstances. Amendment No 454 is of particular importance. It concerns teachers, who are already themselves an AME, or who have a spouse or a child with a high disability rate. They will be able to be seconded as a priority, without having to spend two school years in the area of their appointment. I had submitted a relevant report to the Minister of Education, and I declare the satisfaction of the educational establishments for the solution given. The announcements made by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis at the weekend in PTH gave no doubt, a tone of optimism, which is so needed by the business world, the economy, as well as by all citizens in general. The Prime Minister has announced 12 measures for direct stimulus to the economy and has shown that the state always stands next to the citizen, despite the unprecedented period of experience. All of this, together with the arrangements contained in today's bill, equip Greek citizens with powerful ammunition, so that we can overcome with dignity and optimism the difficult days that we are going through. Already a lot has been done. The beds in IF and MFO have increased considerably, and we believe that by the end of the year we can reach Europe's average. By the end of October the procedures under which the RAGs, the health regions, will carry out supplies of health material, medicines, protective equipment and reagents will be accelerated. Due to the exceptional circumstances, temporary necessary ICM or MMF equipment may be available from one hospital to another. At the same time, I can develop IF or MF beds in any area that is deemed necessary, and this in extreme situations, which I hope we do not have to deal with. I am going to focus particularly on the mandatory electronic prescription of antibiotic medicines. The medical world has pointed out it for many years and no government has dealt with it so far. We all know that Greece has a sad first. It is first place in Europe in the consumption of antibiotics, with twice as much use as in Europe's average, according to ECDC figures. It is also known that the abuse of antibiotics leads to the phenomenon of microbial resistance, resulting in an increase in morbidity and mortality from poly resistant microbes and a difficult financial burden on the health system. At the level of the economy, the Prime Minister gave the signal. Concerted efforts are being made at all levels to reduce unemployment and support entrepreneurship. In this direction, the three-point reduction in the insurance contributions of employers and workers in the private sector for 2021 is crucial. So is the abolition of the solidarity levy for employees, professionals and farmers, with a view to its definitive abolition. The 100 thousand new jobs subsidy programme and the extension of the 2021 programme give an impetus to maintaining existing jobs, as well as creating new jobs. Businesses find practical support, with another package. The third and fourth cycles of repayable advance, with the integration of individual enterprises, including those that do not have a cash machine, are being launched. Incentives are given to digital and green investments with over-depreciation of 200%. It shall be deferred until April 2021 the payment of any tax and insurance debt that has been suspended as a result of the pandemic. The reduced VAT rate is being extended and, of course, support is being given to those most in need. Unemployment benefits are extended for two more months and the required rates are reduced from one hundred to fifty, mainly for those working in the tourism and food sectors. Pensioners will receive their retrospectives immediately in October. In the twenty-six smaller islands the ENPIA is abolished. Most importantly, no first home auction is going to take place this year. The Prime Minister has announced six key defence interventions that stimulate the integrity of the Armed Forces and, of course, their deterrent power and strengthen our national confidence. Following all these measures, which the Government takes in the midst of a difficult international economic situation, the attitude of counter-population, in my opinion, proves to be below the circumstances. The political reason is exhausted in a sterile criticism of individual governments' choices without any serious argument. You are making an opposition without firm positions and, above all, without effective counter-proposals. The Government is faithfully following the difficult path, the path of consistency and actions of responsible policy and the search for outlets and solutions. But it is the road that will safely lead us to a future that is more hopeful and optimistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u19	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Her colleague will now take the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Xinoyannakopoulos Mariliza.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have followed Mr Mitsotakis' speech at the PPC Forum standing in front of a great slogan: "Greece of confidence". But finally, ladies and gentlemen, with the New Democracy policy choices and much more with the Prime Minister's own announcements, what is the reality is a country which is constantly sinking into the economic and social crisis and insecurity. What did the Prime Minister tell us this weekend at the ID? It reiterated all the logic of the herd's immunity, namely: support for the major players in the economy and small and medium-sized enterprises and the middle-sized class in its destiny. We have now seen the implication with all the officiality of the pensioners, in terms of retrospectives and the threat - an announcement - of the new insurance on the Pissaridis line, in the logic of Pinochet insurance. We have now seen, not just confirming all the anti-corruption measures in the dismantling of labour, but making the sad and worrying continuation known. The reality is, ladies and gentlemen, that the bill we are debating today on these issues is a key one, because all these issues of economic and social insecurity are reflected in it and all the anti-Semitism policy of the New Democracy, which of course started on the day following the elections, but now comes to the point of the complete dissolution of labour relations. First of all, there is the invasion of pensioners. We remember here, when Mr Mitsotakis had proudly made the report in July, how he had rushed to disprove what SYRIZA said at the time, but unfortunately this is also confirmed by the bill and by what he said in Thessaloniki. In other words, since the 3.9 billion that the Council of State had recognised as legitimate retrospectives of pensioners, we see only 1.4 billion of this bill that we are now called upon to vote on and to give pensioners the right to basic insurance. What does that mean? It means that beyond that it's unconstitutional, it's the full implication of everything you said the previous time to retired people. Of course, retired people living outside, over a million and a half pensioners, are also the lowest pensioners. It is those who lose the non-retrospectiveness of the presents, who have lost the supplementary pension. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis told me at the IGC - this is never-known in the country we live, especially during this period - that it is still work and that it needs further flexibility, again in the context of the new informal Memorandum of Pissaridis. Where does Mr. Mitsotakis live? Do you believe that Greek citizens do not understand? The workers don't understand? Only in this bill are you bringing down the Christmas present, you come and you make a unilateral change of the overtime system for workers and the earliest, which has no precedent, nor even a conservative post-war government, you come with an article and you do compulsory unpaid work. In other words, you are at first instance destroying the concept of wage earner. Furthermore, within everything else, you are prolonging the unsuccessful 'ASSO-WORK' programme which has a reduction in wages. Because it is accurate work - according to Mr Mitsotakis - in Greece, you are prolonging the suspension of contracts under the pretext, as you told us in March, that it will not lead to redundancies and that it is for the protection of jobs, when we see with Ministerial Decisions by Mr Brutsis that the seasonal workers, who were part of this system, are now being made redundant and that is the reality. So you come and say, that we need further flexibility and that it is accurate to work in Greece, when the workers, ladies and gentlemen - I address you, the colleagues of the New Democracy, who have social sensitivities - now have three options in Greece: either COOPERATION - if the employer says - with a reduction in wages, or the suspension of a contract with the allowance he has and all the reductions that are due - of course we are talking about overtime, and all that is about those who have quarantineed - or unemployment. These are the options. In this world you come and say you're going to do further elastication and dismantling of industrial relations? Of course, we have also heard Mr Mitsotakis talking about the creation of a hundred thousand jobs, six months as he said. Mr Brutsis, of course, is not present, but we are waiting for him to say that in the next few days we will find out the details. I, in this phrase, will express concern until we see what the Ministry of Labour will bring us. It says in the conversation I read very carefully that there will be certain conditions for the same number of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are warning and expressing our position very clearly: the number of jobs, the working contracts themselves. At this stage we highlight the risk and the risk is through the liberalisation of redundancies, the dismissal of people and new contracts, which will also be flexible for contract workers with very low wages. Obviously that is what Mr Mitsotakis may mean to cover full-time jobs. It is no coincidence that the social partners rose yesterday. The president of GATT and representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises said: “Why does the government not implement these measures to support the two hundred and fifty thousand current jobs? It promotes wage reduction and insecurity and announces a programme, which we should see if it is in addition to current positions or if it comes to lead to further dismantling." Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we, not just point out, but denounce this dismantling of labour relations and ask for a roll-call vote, because it is a moment when every colleague must assume his responsibilities. Do we support labour, the social state, labour rights, or do we now go to a real middle-aged age that takes us back to the 19th century when there was compulsory work, without wages? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u21	Until the Step is cleared, I will give the floor for three minutes to the Minister of Education, Mr Kerameos, to support her amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. First we wish from Step of the House a very good school year to all our students and teachers. I have developed detailed provisions in the context of the work of the committee. Here I shall refer to Amendment No 454/78. First of all, it concerns the possibility we give for social reasons of the exceptionally secondment of certain categories of teachers and specialist staff during the first two years of appointment. They are the permanent appointments that have been made. We are giving this possibility during the first two years of their appointment, on grounds relating to cases where the persons concerned or their spouses have a disability rate both above and above, as well as for multiples. Therefore, for social reasons, we have introduced this possibility during the first two years of appointment. The second provision concerns something that has already been discussed. The competence regarding the opening and closing of departments and school units is now transferred. It is therefore envisaged that the measure of the temporary suspension of a school unit may be imposed to deal specifically with the dispersion of the coronary. The decision will be taken by a Director of primary or secondary education, after the opinion of the Director of Public Health and Social Welfare of the Regional Unit concerned and always on the basis of the protocol, which has given us special scientists. I should like to say here, Mr President, that a special task force has been set up here, consisting of a representative of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the EGEY and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, which will provide additional guidance to teachers and health managers in the regions, in order to implement the protocols already adopted on when a section or a school unit in particular is closed due to a koruna. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Katrinis Michael from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want, too, to wish a good and safe school year. All students, apprentices, teachers, parents must progress responsibly on the path of learning with a view to collective improvement, but also atomic advancement by adopting expert advice and guidance. So we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of acts of legislation and other provisions, a procedure which includes, on the one hand, urgent provisions, but on the other hand - as the Parliamentary representative rightly said - incomplete provisions, of a non-racist nature, which in fact raise questions about how one year after the announcements of good law and a final state the government is still really causing the House. But it is a first-class opportunity today that we are ratifying the acts of legislation which have entered into force more than a month ago, to carry out an initial assessment of their effectiveness from their application to everyday life, but also taking into account the Prime Minister's announcements just two days ago. This is because, during the debate in the committee last week, all the ministers referred to the Prime Minister's announcements regarding measures to relieve, strengthen liquidity and stimulate social cohesion. Since, in fact, we are debating, there is a provision to increase by 600 million the budget of the Ministry of National Defence, I cannot recall the fact that in this Chamber in the debate on the 2020 budget, both the speakers and the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, we have noted that this circumstance is not appropriate, even for notable reasons, for there to be a reduction in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. In fact, when the Change Movement responsibly did not vote for the reduction in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence more than a month after the signing of the Turkish - Libyan Memorandum, where the provocativeness from the neighbouring country was visible and evident, then we were accused by the government and on the part of co-existence that we do not support a large national effort. So it comes today that your own proposal for reform of the budget justifies our position and confirms that you probably did not see developments correctly at that time and you did not have a specific strategy. As I refer to Greek-Turkish, we are certainly not satisfied with the Prime Minister's abhorrence, firstly, that the opposition must be more responsible or that the information is exhausted in private communication and information of the Chief of Police. We as a Change Movement have asked and asked for the text of this agreement, which took place at the Berlin meeting, and of course the Council of Political Heads of State to be established and confirmed by the necessary national front. In no case can the non-renewal of NAVTEX on the Turkish side be interpreted as a move of goodwill. It's just a halt to a provocative and illegal activity that offends our sovereign rights. As far as the Prime Minister's announcements are concerned, we have really been misled at least by the question of paying retrospectives to pensioners, and we do not know whether this is ultimately a political decision of the government, as announced at the end of July, it is a move of justice and solidarity to the stewards of life as was said a few weeks ago or it is a measure of stimulating the economy, as the Prime Minister previously included in his speech to the PMI. It did - not only to us, but to the whole of the trading world - an astonishing impression of the absence of a reference to commercial and small- and medium-sized business, while the Prime Minister spoke about medium-class support, finding that Greece has less recession than expected from the other euro area countries and that we are lending at a lower interest rate, historically low interest rates, and that this is an indicator of the credibility of the Greek economy and that, of course, it is not due to the giant bond exchange programme of the European Central Bank. However, this low interest rate, at the end of the day, citizens, professionals, traders, micro-enterprises how they perceive it in their everyday lives, when the Prime Minister has not announced brave regulation of all the obligations created during the crisis - I am talking about a hundred twenty-dollar regulation - when he rightly announces the reduction of the HPAI in the twenty-six outermost islands, but at the same time does not stop the equation of trade and objects, which will also eliminate the already voted reduction of HPAI for 2019? Of course, it includes a number of appropriate measures - and we must say that - such as over-depreciation measures, reduction in insurance contributions and, of course, the extension of the reduction in VAT for six months. But it is not enough. We waited for the solidarity levy, because it was a pre-election commitment, for there to be a definitive abolition as long as budgetary relaxation is in place, as is the permanent reduction in the tax advance at this very difficult time, which seems to be continuing. No reference to the primary sector, farmers and farmers, in addition to the reduction in the solidarity levy for 2020. As far as the advance is concerned, it is a good measure. We have said from the outset that this measure actually gives stimulus and liquidity to the market. We had asked for a rapid payment and an increase in total amount and for this request to be reintroduced. However, it poses a problem when individual enterprises with a SMR book, which was included only on 20-03-20, are incorporated in the announced third phase. So those individual undertakings that keep books of services, have retrospectively joined the CARs, cannot receive a repayable advance and do not understand why they are excluded. The Prime Minister's non-referral to liquidity tools was a special impression. I am saying this because a week ago, both the Minister of Development and the President of the Greek Development Bank announced in a two-billion extra to the Guarantee Fund and the 800 million to TEPIX II. No mention has been made of the Prime Minister. Obviously, it is a sincere self-critic about the failure of these liquidity tools, which have never reached the real economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But if the government - I am finishing with this, Mr President - is now actually intervening with the banks, as it says it has done on the issue of the freezing of first home auctions for vulnerable groups, why does it not make it necessary for them to impose rules on liquidity tools to go to viable businesses, which need to be supported? We have been shouting since July when the main residence protection has been abolished for the first time in ten years. The Government objected to the "GEYRA" programme, in which almost none of the vulnerable and uninformed borrowers have been able to enter, because the banks request an advance of a large amount in order to make arrangements for the grant borrowers. So the program didn't work. The Greek Banking Association - not the National Representation, not the Government, not the political leadership - is coming on Friday to decide on the freezing of first home auctions for vulnerable borrowers, based on the criteria of the law passed by the Greek Parliament. If that, ladies and gentlemen, does not constitute a bankruptcy of the political system and a confession of failure, I do not know what else we should see and wait in this Chamber. We have a radically different concept, which is why we are not voting in favour of this bill. We believe that any growth must also have measures to stimulate the economy of entrepreneurship, but also to ensure social cohesion. If this is not a priority for you, for us it is an inalienable term and objective for our political presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u25	The Vice President of the Parliament, Mr Lambroulis, is called in Stepma by the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. And with the very specific plan, which we are discussing today, it is confirmed that the measures for the health of our people, but also in total, government measures are not only completely inadequate, but also in a dangerous direction, as they permanently perpetuate and strengthen the enormous anti-government arsenal at the expense of our workers and our people. So, government and energies today are cutting and sewing already the next day, adding new reactive provisions to the detriment of workers every day. Gentlemen of the government, you have enormous responsibilities both for the situation - of course, with the responsibility of the previous governments - in primary health care and in hospitals, because of the enormous shortages in health and infrastructure, and for the necessary health and safety measures to be observed at the workplace, businesses, factories, in public transport, etc., in all levels of education, which are now urgent, because of the second wave of pandemic. Instead of taking advantage of all the previous period, which has been won by the contribution of our people, what are you doing? You are trying to throw the blame on you for the large increase in cases, continuing to move the finger on the people and youth, turning it all back into individual responsibility, while your refluxes and the fragmentation of the measures fuelled and fueled both any relaxation and any reassurance. However, daily three-digit cases came out of nowhere, except as a result of the fact that health protocols went for the sake of the profits of the major hotel units, the very large travel agencies, the various airlines and shipowners. They are the ones who have premiums and premiums with the measures that the government has taken and is continuing to take. That's why the coroner in these spaces did a break. Thus, only as a challenge is what the government says, how it can do, of course, by reintroducing individual responsibility as a basic problem, while at the same time calling for unanimity against the invisible threat or for the fact that no health system can, as he has said at the same time, withholding thousands of patients. These arguments are supported by the government to dismiss its responsibilities, hide the true guilty and charge the people responsibility for the development of the pandemic. In fact, the government is actually doing everything it can to ensure that any measures that do not undermine the budgetary objectives do not jeopardise the State budget, do not remove any of the kinds of support measures of major business groups. He does everything he can to adapt the people's demands to today's miserable public health system, and not to develop this in line with modern popular needs. In fact, you are presenting as a solution - salvation for the public health system the same bankrupt policy, which is at times responsible for the problems that the public health sector faces, a policy which deprives the right to full, free and modern health services, since it considers them to be unnecessary costs and waste. You talk about full operational preparedness of the public health system, when most hospitals do not have the standards to implement the necessary measures to prevent and disperse the virus, they do not have spatial segregation, but also separation of personnel, so that they can only take care of the patient with COVID -19. You are aiming at the European average of intensive care units in the thousands of two hundred, 26% of the demanded three and a half thousand, which are also required in accordance with international standards, for hospitals for patients both with COVID -19, but also with all other illnesses, when recruiting permanent staff is zero, but also for those who are contracted on an expiry date, since you know very well that empty organic posts are touching thirty thousand. Here and now that there is massive recruitment of health workers and other staff, the rest of the staff in hospitals, primary health care, the EKP, the 'Help at Home' service, no redundancy of workers in the health sector, but on the contrary, all workers in health, with all kinds of temporary working relationships, fully restoring all public health establishments, hospitals, workshops and others, which have been closed or are being operational in previous years, no plans for all private health and welfare structures in the event of a pandemic being made, ensure the necessary quantity and quality of health protection equipment and others, and measures to prevent, not only tourists but also those entering our country, as well as full implementation of the protection measures for workers, as well as diagnostic tests. In fact, on what criteria do the necessary mass testing, especially for health workers, but also for patients, have been baptized or baptized, without any shame, unreasonable use, as you said when the reagent problem occurred in the CSCE, even showing, with fingers as health workers, who did tests because they were returning from their holidays? The fact that you cannot implement - even if you do not want - any of the above in order to fully address all the current needs, but also the temporary ones, is because the implementation of all of these conflicts and conflicts with the cost-benefit logic of the operation of public hospitals with business criteria, which, in particular, are very hot and hasty, I would say, in the summer, further steps have been taken, by legislating to further market it and privatise it in the name of public health. That is why, together with the struggle, wages, insurance, at the heart of workers' struggle, the issues of protecting their health must also be addressed. To this end, we support the demands of workers' unions, in the front and on the basis of the evolution of the second wave of pandemic, in order to ensure the work of all workers with all the necessary measures to protect the health and safety of workers in the workplace, that there be free tests for workers, with the responsibility of employers and the State, so that there are no checks to ensure that the workers' rights in the name of the pandemic are not silenced, that the health protocol does not become flexible for the profits of business groups, that public transport, buses, planes and ships and by saying that there are no negative changes in the terms and conditions of work, that workers' rights in the name of dealing with the pandemic are guaranteed correspondingly exceptional special-purpose licences with remuneration for those workers who need to stay at home. If, for any reason, the worker cannot work in the workplace with secure conditions of health and safety, under the responsibility of the State and the employer, take a special leave with full pay and insurance. We call for the setting-up of joint health committees per company, each company involving employee representatives, through health and safety committees and qualified scientific staff. In this way, it will ensure that decisions are made on the basis of the medical data and needs arising in workplaces. Take specific protection measures for workers in contact with customers, craftsmen in shops and go by saying based on the scientists' instructions. To provide a central supply of products for disinfection with certified disinfectants not only for personal disinfection of workers, but also for daily contacts by workers with the public, with customers, but also measures for disinfection and the proper use of work tools, such as keyboards in various companies, audios etc. Against this background, therefore, the struggle, struggle and claims of workers, farmers, self-employed, pensioners, youth together with the demands for a solution to their acute problems by refusing to accept the quarantine in their rights must at the same time target the true enemy, who is in the form, person, name and will, who has interests to defend against the people, namely capitalism. Because modern social and people's needs today are suffocating from the European Union's and capital's policy, which the New Democracy Government is currently implementing, before SYRIZA, KINAL, PASOK, while the other urban parties support. Because if something is proved by more evidence than the pandemic period, it is the bankruptcy of the present system. What is needed and required is that it be replaced by a new society where its development, the organization of production and services, i.e. the whole economy, will be determined solely by not profit but by modern popular needs at work, health, welfare, education and everything. So to the people, it remains to decide and impose it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ms Maria Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's great feast of Orthodoxy the height of the Timios Cross. I hope she's placed again in religious schoolbooks. Happy birthday and a good school year to our children. Currently the draft law regulates burning issues with scattered provisions, very important issues such as temporary staffing with health workers. They are treated shallow and fragmented with patches rather than with a responsible and long-term policy, which would shield the regrettable winter health industry. The serious problem of its undersubmission in such a critical period is not solved by the semi-metres that the government adopts, because the problem of the lack of staff and the weakening and depreciation of primary health structures, which could have already been and have been provided with the appropriate and necessary logistics infrastructure, is not solved by extensions of contracts, as you are proposing in Articles 6 and 15 of the first MDG, but by permanent staffing the health system with people worthy and appropriately providing their valuable services. We need health professionals that cover permanent, permanent and permanent needs. It is urgent to meet the specific needs of staff with permanent recruitment, because temporary staff are a prelude to the government. In accordance with Article 8, a temporary extension of health contracts is enacted without, however, making the framework for cooperation with the public, nor even specific in terms of their hours of employment or of course refers to their selection criteria. This legislation also extends the specialties of private physicians, which are evidently not related to the coronary, such as general surgeons and gynecologists. What can anyone assume beyond self-evidentness? It also goes on to say - the most prudence - in Articles 10 and 11 direct supply of pharmaceuticals and logistics, and in fact through opaque procedures rather than following clear and adequate procurement legislation through public tenders. It thus jeopardises both the quality of the materials that our hospitals will supply and the services provided, in order to serve more. In addition, Article 43 other provisions - the extension by the end of the year of the Ministry of Development and Investment's ability to conclude public contracts by way of derogation from the provisions on support for logistical infrastructure consumables, emergency staff and support for logistical infrastructures and consumables of the service scales with control responsibilities of the Ministry of Development and Investment create strong reservations about the certain dispersion of public money. Ladies and gentlemen, without underestimating the need to take appropriate measures, we are calling on the government for oligopoly, because the need to take measures was already known from eight months ago, both from the development of the coronary in our own country and from the example of other coronary countries. There was no reason, therefore, to come before the second wave and instead of finding that government ready to attempt with spasmist movements to deal with increased needs and invoke urgent reasons. The reasons are serious, but could by time and effective response not be urgent. Unfortunately, the government's policy has convinced us that it is aimed at covering micro-political interests and serving party officials. This tragic direct awards and contracts by way of derogation from the law must not continue. While the economy is squeezing the government, it still suits its party friends. Now, in relation to the pharmaceutical cost of excluding vaccines from 1-9-2020 of its restrictions, we have reasonable reason to think that the government, covering and satisfying the same interests, is rushing to prepare the framework for mandatory coronary vaccination without yet completing the stage of confirming the suitability of any vaccine. After all, we have all seen the complication that occurred in the Oxford vaccine. Public health, the health of vulnerable groups should not be treated with caution, should not be based on a hasty economic, accounting, preparation for the purchase of vaccines for COVID -19 with doubtful quality, efficacy and side effects. Subsequently, the risk of the security of civil personal data is present since Article 37 of this Regulation provides that an anonymous company will collect and process all financial and medical data as well as all information from the medical and administrative records of patients of the country's hospital structures on behalf of the Ministry of Health. I'm continuing with educational issues. Instead of covering gaps in teaching staff and thereby bringing about the reduction of pupils by section would prefer Article 4 of the Second WID to cover the faces of young students with masks. The Government has lost a first-class opportunity to upgrade the quality of the education provided by making use of the need to reduce the number of pupils by part in departments close to the educational data of the other northern and central European countries. This is the way to achieve quality of education, but also to avoid co-existence. Instead, however, the government chose not only to maintain the already increased number of pupils per department, but also to increase them further to twenty-six pupils - yes, that is the reality in the schools of the large urban centres - and, at the same time, to impose an unacceptable measure of the obligation to mask young pupils. It's conflicting measures. Moreover, schools still have not been opened and complaints have already been made that teachers are cleaning their own classes because they are not enough cleansing staff, that the notorious masks and icebergs have not yet been received, and there has been no discussion of preventive controls on teachers and students. Shouldn't they have run free tests on teachers before schools open up, know if they're negative or positive, so that they can get quarantine and not be the ones to disperse the virus? And as if the political leadership of the Ministry of Education did not go far enough, it once again showed its inadequacy and ignorance as to the present. It was noon Friday, September 11th - we recall that schools are open from September 1st - and while all school units have informed parents and students about the programme on Monday 14th of September, which has been designed on the basis of the specificities of school units, the specificity of today's day, the feast of Timios Cross, the ministry, ignoring the educational reality and legislation, unleashes a circular against the spirit of the Presidential Decree but also against the instructions it had sent on September 9th, which creates huge turmoil and confusion throughout the educational community. If that's possible! Ladies and gentlemen, since this is not a new bill that introduces or regulates something specific, but a dispersal of provisions, as I said at the outset, there can be no overall criticism. The frustration of the government's dealings with such serious issues gives reasonable thought to its self-incentives and to the service of small-party interests and the well-being of "local" executives and voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou has been called in Stepma now since Mera25, and then Mrs Sophia Vultesis from New Democracy. Here you go, Mrs. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are unfortunately seeing for the time being that the New Democracy Government, whenever it wants to resolutely regulate, at will, without any public consultation on a matter, is proving to be a pretext for the coronary, only to pass it on in the form of a legislative act. In this way, however, it creates a certain number of legislative problems and then calls on the House, in which it itself has the majority, to ratify these acts of urgency. We call on her to put an end to this constant practice, to put an end to the unacceptable deterioration of parliamentaryism, which, in turn, seriously alters the rule itself, under the responsibility of the government. We now go to the individual issues of the bill and start with educational issues. Here we notice an unprecedented, lasting government fiasco, sloppiness and revolts in the management and planning of the whole issue. What should we say in relation to the fact that the government has literally been insane teachers, students and parents all this time? Should we report the continuous changes to the opening date of the schools? Should we mention ice cucumber as a communication topic of ridicule in the educational process and the measures to protect students' health and safety? Should we mention the increased number of pupils within the classes and averages of the Minister? In fact, we are wondering which of these drastic measures we called on both the education community and the government to take, which is what measures it has taken and whether these measures are included in the legislative act. And we're talking about the preventive free diagnostic tests, the reduced number of students, the permanent recruitment of teachers, the attempt to find some places to avoid the overconcentration and concentration of students. Unfortunately, none of these measures are currently included in this draft law. Article 4 of the second legislative act allows local government, municipalities or the CEDEFOP to provide masks and the relevant types of personal protection for pupils by direct delegation. While you were already aware from March, when the quarantine started, that schools, like every year, open in September, did not see to it that you made a central design, a central supply of all these items from the Ministry itself. In this way you will ensure reduced costs, at a reduced price precisely because of the volume of orders. So you come now and you even have poorer and smaller municipalities, who will have a very low budget, to pay more expensively than richer municipalities. And not only that, but you allow the municipalities to give contraction to "logues" and thus involve local government itself in the party of opacity and the break-up of public money, in which you have been consumed for six months on the coronary pretext. In fact, these results of this choice were seen one day before the school was opened with the barren competition, which was perhaps made pretextably, and you should have, as I said before, taken care of this design and this management by supplying the items to be made centrally by the Ministry itself. In labour, for the first time in the history of Labour Law, unpaid overtime is institutionalized. What does that mean? This means that if, because of a coronary, a worker was sick and subjected to quarantine and had to be absent from his work for seven or fourteen days, when he returns to his work, he would be obliged every day to work longer hours and not to pay overtime. So, what are you doing? You are actually making his illness an illegal act and you are punishing him for forced free work, while at the same time circumventing the acquis of the ten-hour rest of the worker. Because it is rumoured that you will withdraw this provision, we, too, invite you as a PART25 of course to do so. Then, one million workers, who were put without their own fault in suspending their contract of employment, will receive a cut-off Christmas gift, reduced by about 35%, since this will not be calculated on their nominal salary, but rather on the compensation for a specific purpose of EUR 534. This, of course, will shrink and cut down the workers' paid incomes, reduce their purchasing power and, of course, reduce the total purchasing traffic, and, in a period of - supposedly - high consumption, such as Christmas and New Year's. As far as the payment of unemployment benefit is concerned, there the days of work you require are fifty percent for the grant of the allowance. This is a measure which is partly in the right direction, but which is inadequate, because you do not take into account that most seasonal workers work to the same employer every year. If, then, this year this employer was forced not to open up, not to work in any way, then the question is that the worker will even be able to secure fifty days? The increase in the minimum wage and the related spring allowances of 2021 is postponed and, of course, the work programme which, as you know, provides for a reduction of up to 20% of the wage. It is postponed until spring 2021, but here we are ladies and gentlemen of the government, and again in the spring of 2021 you will postpone. Five hundred thousand workers will hear from the government's mouth that it is postponed and then, because then the budgetary margins will be even more suffocating, even closer. So where will you get the money, to raise the minimum wage, as well as for so long as you have not made sure to stimulate the economy, are you engaged in the communication management of the matter? You do not, as you promised, extend the unemployment benefit by two months for those who ceased payment in June, July and August. Instead of prolonging payment, there is an extension of the suspension of employment contracts for sectors which have literally been depleted and plagued by the coronary, such as tourism, transport, sport, art and culture. So these people are now being called upon to live with 18 euros a month and with bills and rents running. Instead of taking forward economic support measures, measures which we have often supported as a PART25 such as a haircut and not a simple 'blow' of the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises, what are you doing? You reduce workers' incomes and their purchasing power. The question is: What revenue do you plan to have from this year's VAT in the financial year 2020? Why not take measures, such as the abolition of the tax prepay, which we propose, and the reduction of tax rates? How, in any case, will you cover the huge material climate and budget gap that comes? Obviously, you will cover it with what Mr Varoufakis has said about it, namely that you will make a fifth memorandum, a new loan contract, a new overtax, a new sale of public property, tough austerity measures, a new reduction in wages and pensions. In conclusion, we are asking you directly and since you are planning to make new public spending on military supplies from France, which will cost EUR 10 billion, what are your staff to do? Answer immediately, so that citizens can do their programming and know what's waiting for them. You've caused enough confusion with your indifference. So we invite you to clarify at least the basics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. I will now give the floor to Mrs Sophia Vultesis and then the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece will speak. Mrs. Vulture, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, even the small children in this country know that in the last eight months Greece has been living in a combination of unprecedented situations, such as any other country in the world. Greece has not only had to face the crisis of the coronary and its economic crisis. Greece has and has to face serious immigration as a result of the 2015 general invitation, a constant threat to our northern borders, a real threat that everyone saw, when the opposition said we are making a propaganda of war, a crisis of coronary in parallel with the attacks on Evros and a serious threat of war by Turkey. In summer there were days when we had seventy fires a day, but no one talks, because there was no reason to speak. For eight months the country has kept the entire Armed Forces, the Security Bodies, the Port Authority. This means a lot of stress and a lot of economic haemorrhage. If I remember correctly, the last time this had been done in our homeland was in the past century. At the same time, the whole state mechanism has been kept alert to the health crisis. I haven't heard you say anything about all this. You talk like nothing happens, like it's all normal, normal, and then the opposition wonders why no one listens to it. When you make 20 announcements a day, when you make different announcements, when the party draws up one, then comes the sectoral director and makes a second one on the same subject, and then comes the coordinator of the sector itself to make a third announcement, who will listen to you? I am not going to teach you a lesson in communication, but you must not wonder about the polylogy, about the opposition of the coronary, about the opposition of the mask. They're elementary things. Somebody's gonna say, "We're opposition," what are we gonna do? No, well, when they hit war drums, it doesn't work that way. From Acronaupelia, prisoners of dictators had been asked to go to war on the front. What, in my opinion, did a serious opposition have to make in these circumstances? To communicate with the respective political spaces and groups in Europe and the world. The European People's Party has spoken. The others? That Socialist International - do I not see anyone here from KINAL - where is everyone at home well? In other words, imagine how much counter-population would win if Mr Tsipras and Mrs Gennamata were to take before Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, at the Euro-Mediterranean Conference, called on the similar Prime Ministers who would take part, Mr Sanchez of Spain, Mr Costa of Portugal, the Italian Democratic Party and asked for Greece's support. Wouldn't they win a piece? Wouldn't the whole country praise them? Wouldn't they keep their own voters? The whole country would not say that there is a national unity here. But you can't even see your political interest, because you keep your eyes tightly closed to a blind opposition. You probably also hoped for Mitsotakis' failure in MED7 to tell us that we didn't do it in time. Fortunately, the Prime Minister, who has always done so, has always contacted the European People's Party, now has done so without your help. It was your golden chance and you lost it. It was your golden opportunity to get everyone in the national effort. The whole world cannot be costly to our side, and we here fight and chase a supposed internal enemy. You want a national strategy. But there is a national strategy. Before anything else, there is the fact that we have our doctrine, our constitution and our national unity. Who will believe that you want a national strategy when Mr. Tsipras himself comes out and says that we are with pajamas in the Aegean? So, what kind of pajamas were we wearing when he didn't land in Rhodes? Shall we begin to say what happened when the rockets arrived in Agathonisi? Say what happened when the Turks vaccinated a port ship that you said they wouldn't do it again, bad guys? Say what happened when the Turkish fry came to Kavo Doro? Is that what we're gonna say now? Let us leave the fact that, for specific cases, you have left a flimsy myth, and then you rejected it as Turkish propaganda. Now for the RDUs. You've never voted for anything, nor the health allowance, because it says - it's PPP. You who closed five legislative acts with the banks, you who made your ridiculous referendum by means of an act of legislation, do not vote on the coronary measures! You, who then did all of this with legislative acts, so that we can go to the third memorandum, go to the supranational, leave the Greek banks against whom you now are bailing, bring the foreign funds, have a seat outside Greece, allow the banks to notify with sms that they have sold the Greeks' loans to foreign funds, you are not voting now. That is right, you did not vote for the agreements you yourself negotiated and agreed on, the bases, the agreement with Israel, the hydrocarbons. Even the EEZ, which was our main weapon in the Turkish pact, did not vote and come here today and say things about overtime. Do you know in Spain, Iglesia, what exactly is going on? Do you know that the lost hours of the first lockdown will all be replaced in Spain, Iglesia, by December 31st? You say things about schools, that Italy ordered two and a half million wheeled monochrome wheels, that Italy, which will get fifty thousand teachers. Impressive! Only in Italy because of last year's law have all civil servants gone away and two hundred thousand teachers are missing. Except that in Italy they do not know when half the schools were built, which we were built with the Community Support Framework, and there they are over half built before the earthquake law, and therefore they cannot use these cobbles. You drop the present and say the number of students in schools. Only in Spain of Iglesia right now in the autonomies are trying to reduce the thirty-eight students in class to twenty-three. Oh, go on, Iglesia Spain? But you throw it away, and wherever it works. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be right over. Because you reminded us yesterday in a statement from the SYRIZA Party that our system is parliamentary, I agree, it is parliamentary and it is based on the declared system. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u33	Thank you too, Mrs. Vulturis. The floor will now be taken by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party, Mr Koutsoubas. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. We used to say a number of multi-brush projects. About what you've brought now, what can we say? You have added to a bill many more bills, multiples and other provisions, all of which concern first-line issues: public health, wages, overtime, retired people, schools and cleanliness, transportation, flooding in Evia, teleworking. And all this at the same time that you are calling on the people to live and reconcile with crumbs and, on the other hand, you are preparing new equipment, new markets of the century, which, among other things, will not really serve the country's defence, the territorial integrity, but will be part of the aggressive pursuits, the ultimate control of NATO. In Saudi Arabia you sent Patriot missiles, not to mention Greek warships taking part in various missions outside the border. This is also the case with the purchase of new weapons systems by France, which is evolving in the midst of severe pressure from other arms dealers and, above all, is moving into the vicious circle of the hunting military armaments that workers pay dearly again. Things for our people are extremely serious and critical. The government with its multi-brand plan demonstrates its strict commitment to what BSE demands, as required by the guidelines of the European Union. Of course, we didn't expect anything else. This commitment, however, means a constant attack on workers, to the detriment of small businessmen. They are fighting the workers at hotels and at transport, so that the hotel owners can become crocodiles and that transporters increase their profits, while you know that the tourist workers have paid a very heavy price and many have not even made a cut this year. What are you legislating now? That 50 days of insurance is required for food workers - tourism - to receive a regular unemployment benefit. Take it back. What the unemployed need is a subsidy without prohibition. Now do that. They fight wages, retrospectives, gifts, hours to redeem monopolistic groups and state money. Even the decision of the Council of State on retrospectively cut it off, to make more money for the various groups, for which you are, of course, being cut. You are talking about protecting and shielding the public health system, when you refuse to do the recruitments that you have to do to do this instantly. The extension of the employment of private doctors in public hospitals does not solve the problem of subsistence, while it is another measure which is part of the policy of further commercialisation, depreciation of health. We do not, of course, fall from the clouds, because the time-consuming policy of the governments of the New Democracy and the previous PASOK governments, SYRIZA, the policy of the European Union for corruption is to strengthen the parasitic and useless private health sector, strengthen the clinical authorities, weaken the public system. We have reached the point where you can answer that there is nothing that the COVID test -19 can only be done by those who have the ability to pay in private medicine. We've reached the point where we can hear you say the tests are dry, because the sanitaries are back from holidays. Such a terrible prevention ability you have. You continue to close individual responsibility in all falls, when workplaces have become real health bombs. That is what the reality and daily announcements of the EGE show. It is typical of the factory's example in Janitsa. From one workplace we had more than a hundred cases and four quarantine counties. We would not have this result if the government were to take the measure proposed by the KKE for mass, repeated tests at factories and all major workplaces for continuous health checks so that the inconsistent employers would have to comply with the workers' protection protocols. The health protocols have become rampant, since the procession, with the air that your policy itself gives it and your tolerance, reaches the point of threatening workers so as not to reveal cases or people exposed to the coronary when they exist in workplaces. Or worse, workers are afraid to take tests, so they are not diagnosed positively, and they are forced to lose the bill, because they know that if that happens, their wages are unprotected, their position is precarious, because they have no real protection. They are only confronted with employers' and state immunity. This reality you have created for workers. The background to today's bill is the entire monumental arsenal, as the governments successively shaped by PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA. What else does the bill prove? What we said from the outset was that no more permanent of the provisional. It comes to simulate deep anti-terrestrial measures taken in the name of the pandemic emergency. It was temporary and there are any small reliefs. Of course, overturns in labour relations, wages, more reactionary flexibility, the break-up of working hours, the setting-up of wages, such as permanent and legal, are now being done, and the shortcomings in projects and infrastructures relating to the protection of the people against natural disasters, floods and others. Of course, you are not on your own, gentlemen of the government, in this work. You all have a role here together in how the cost of the new crisis will be paid by our people again. This is the strategy of deaf capital and in this strategy you all meet, the government, SYRIZA, KINAL, others, your friends of the Community obviously, but also the employers' union to squeeze you. We remember before the pandemic, for example, the president of the GFCM saying that the pandemic has no class mark. That's what they told him, he says. Real down. That is why he also enjoys such an inconsistency from those who represent him, the workers. The only ones who are now referring to the leadership of the GCC are the social partners, namely the government, employers' organizations, BSE. The big business groups in the country want to get over with what they consider to be an obstacle to the large launching of their profitability, even if they step on bodies. Part of this plan is today's bill, and we know it's going on. After all, the creepy Pissaridis project has been told by the government itself that it has it as a driver and the new attack will include all the fronts: wages, privatization, new exemptions and great employers' privileges. So let's see some more specifically in the bill we're talking about now. Top of the iceberg of the work sport you legislate is Article 10. You impose unpaid overtime for workers placed in a preventive quarantine, in accordance with the EGE directives. If no telework is applied during the quarantine, the worker will be required to make up for half the working hours in which he stayed outside, with unpaid overtime per day, beyond his contractual working hours. You're so hobby! And without measures, you'll work and you'll get sick and pay for it for free work to the employer, with unpaid work. That is what you say to the workers, and otherwise your Minister, Brutsi, says: 'hey, nothing is wrong'. But that's who you are. Unfortunately, the Greek people still forget about it quickly, because when a great evil has happened to him from previous times has been blinded and hopes for politicians and parties that have the same goals as the previous ones, that is, they only know that they are good political servants of the exploiters, a ruling class that does not know what has and what they know best to do is to disguise the worker, to make the social wealth and the sovereign rights of the country in the hammer. Ladies and gentlemen, a worker working with an eight-hour, five-day weekend should be when he returns to his work to work nine-hour hours for a full-day period, without even being paid an extra hour. At the same time, companies will also be able to use normal overtime and overtime. Instead of introducing special leave with full pay and insurance contributions for cases where workers are forced into quarantine in order to protect public health, they come and punish workers. One is the right attitude: that Article 10 should be withdrawn immediately. The continuation of this provision is also the direction of liberalising overtime, because this means extending the scope of the companies and employers who have exhausted the legally foreseen overtime ceilings for their employees to employ them overtime without a ministerial approval decision. Obviously that is what Mr Mitsotakis meant yesterday at the press conference, when he said that workers should have the right to fix their working hours. That's great innovation, too, instead of an eight-hour working for a ten-hour and a dozen hours! And all this while unemployment breaks down, when contract suspensions and wage reductions are being imposed massively. Instead of limiting the ability of businesses to impose overtime, the government solves their hands even more. And of course that's not enough. The government also puts a hand on the workers' Christmas present. What are you doing? For those who were on a job suspension and who lived with the EUR 534 now you say that on the basis of this amount the gift will be calculated rather than on the basis of what the contract lays down. And who told you that Christmas gift money is yours? That's just the workers' money. They've worked them out, and they've paid them, so they can take them as gifts at the holidays. Since, as a government, you have exempted companies from paying their employees by transferring the burden through the State budget to general taxation, i.e. again to the workers themselves, since the workers themselves have been or are still being called upon in a number of branches to survive with the allowance instead of their normal wages, you are now putting your hand on the gift. And this article doesn't improve. Article 17 has to be withdrawn. The Christmas gift should be calculated normally with the salary and not with the 534 euros. As if not all this and the gifts you make to the great employer, such as the free overtime and the knife at the Christmas present, legislate from now to March 2021, based on the infamous previous Brutsi - Ahtsoglou law. We were right to say that there were two godfathers in this infamous law. And how will pay be determined, ladies and gentlemen? Of course, on the basis, as always, of the principles of competitiveness, productivity and the resilience of the Greek economy. We know what these beautiful, magical dictionaries mean in this system, in capitalism, as we know and from now on what to say to us: 'We have a crisis, the indicators fall. If the wages increase, thousands of jobs will be lost, i.e. the so-called 'cassette', which goes from government to government and minister to minister, with the same false dilemmas as 'or wage cuts or redundancies'. However, the real dilemma for the workers and the people is another: or they will accept to put the burden of pandemic and the new economic crisis back on him again, putting their health and rights at great risk, and even their lives, or will be opposed to all of this, will respond to the plans of the government and the ruling order, by raising their fair demands, fair claims, fighting for modern rights, for their people's needs, and by addressing the additional difficulties that pandemic poses in the development of action. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, through this bill, you come and set some arrangements for the floods in Evia that cost our eight fellow humans life and great material disasters. Before I say about the concrete measures that I would like to take note of: you are running faster than your shadow even, but only to bring regulation - a gift to the very great employer, to a few groups. At the same time, you do not have the same zeal. There you go with turtle steps - and if you do that too! - as was the case with previous governments. Because as far as the floods in Evia are concerned, you know that this is not what was not done that night, but what was not done by governments, regional and municipal authorities in a region hit by last year's and last year's fires that burned thousands of acres of forests. So instead of preparing yourself in time, you were then telling us the usual and occupant recurring, that it was a great height of rain, as if we didn't know it, and the affected people did not live much longer there, after the world and its property were drowned. Do you know what happens now in Evia? The leased vehicles, the machinery they made have stopped because they're out of oil. Inhabitants with their own means, among them unemployed without income, as well as immigrants, workers in the area, are trying to remove the mud from homes, from underground, from the yards, from the fields, from shops even today, a month after the floods. This cost is very high and is not covered by the compensation of EUR 5,000 or by the EUR 600 of the allowance, which the vast majority of the affected have not yet received. We also support and submit to the minutes the demands of the people of the region, which relate to a grid of damages to disasters, restoration of roads and of cavalry, as well as to addressing specific problems for groups with special needs, people with disabilities, the elderly, the unemployed, and for whom hundreds of signatures have been gathered. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Some of the residents' demands are as follows: Complete the record of damage and restore all damages to damaged dwellings, construction, equipment, cars, shops, crops, plant and livestock, machinery at 100%, without terms and conditions and loans. Immediately implement all necessary anti-corrosion and anti-corrosion projects in order to protect the life and property of the local residents. In order to do this, a comprehensive anti-military protection plan needs to be drawn up under the responsibility of the state, with brave funding. To undertake the removal of mud from homes, shops, fields. This cannot be done under the responsibility of residents, nor can the costs of the allowance declared and not be met for the most immediate needs. It is a prerequisite for recruitment to be carried out now in subsidized services in any case so that they can respond. To complete all rehabilitation projects immediately in infrastructure and on the road and not with temporary patches. Take steps to rehabilitate water supply and water quality immediately in the areas that still have a problem. To be disinfectants whenever needed. To receive a monthly allowance to the amount of lost income until the damage has been rectified to all those affected who have such losses. These are the workers who do not operate, farmers with land which has suffered a great deal of damage, farmers who lost their livestock, shopkeepers with damage to their shops. Granting benefits to the unemployed who, without having incomes, are trying to clean up themselves and cannot repair any damage. To freeze the debts of micro-enterprises and affected by the region to taxis, banks and municipalities, without incremental and interest. There should also be an exemption from HPAI, income tax, solidarity tax and municipal fees for small and medium-sized enterprises in the region. We tell you again to understand it: No matter what you legislate, no matter how much repression you take, no matter how much slander you are invading, you will eventually find the workers in front of you sooner or later. And that's what you're afraid of. Because if you're not afraid, why did you legislate limiting the protests and extinguishing the strike right? You know very well that in the coming months unemployment and poverty, illness and even impoverishment will increase. You know there's already a new generation in our country that has grown up since she's occupied the world around it, has lived nothing but capitalist crises, monuments, anti-grass measures, pandemics, tolerance. The JRC will move forward so that indignation and insecurity will become a force, optimism, popular struggle towards a breakthrough with this system of barbarism, with the policy of the parties and governments that have created them and contributed to all that ultimately deprives breath from life and life itself from our people, from our youth. Instead of today all these possibilities of science and technology being exploited to prosper the people, workers are unfortunately seeing time to turn back and demolish popular conquests for decades. These are the only things that this capitalist development path can bring: crises, poverty, wars. Are you presenting these as new and innovative? That is why we say that the Greek people must finally decide to take it differently. For all these reasons, we will vote against this draft bill with hands and feet. In addition, we will ask for a roll-call vote, as our rapporteur has announced, in order to find each man on his bench and for the voters to know what their chosen ones have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. And now I will give the floor to Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglu from the Change Movement and then to Mrs Zetta Makri from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the party positions and of what a Member of Parliament or a rapporteur from New Democracy supports, for example, that everything is going well or someone else on the part of the Opposition regarding everything going wrong, there is the judge called 'loos'. The citizens today find the measures taken to be absolutely inadequate. This is not because there are no individual measures that help or try to deal with the problems of the recession caused by the measures to tackle the pandemic, but because they are not all part of an overall plan, they do not make use of all the possibilities, financial and other, which the country has, but also because the use of these resources in the form of these resources available does not have the required efficiency. They shall not pay the measures in proportion to the money spent. This is the result of the non-cohesion and relevance of measures and the inability to activate the forces that can be activated with the advantages we have in the Greek region, in important sectors of the economy and in human resources. What we are doing on our part is with constant proposals - interventions to criticise and counter-proposal and, of course, through the overall plan with the interim programme to give our own proposal before government decisions are taken so that we have the best solution. Unfortunately, the results are not what should be done. The government lives in a context that has to do with the bliss of success, and that is not good for itself either, but much more for Greece and the citizens. The same thing seems to be happening in national matters, because when I heard a member of the New Democracy earlier, I heard criticism of the Change Movement in relation to responsibility in national matters. Did I hear all right? It seems that the remnants from the propaganda school, which all those in the press, government representatives and others are going through, have affected the good news of the other colleagues. Does not my colleague know that Fofi Gennimata took the initiative and put European leaders before their responsibilities, whether they are in the government or in the lead of parties, and she first came out from the Socialist Party and the leaders in relation to Greece's support? Does not my colleague, like many others in the New Democracy, know that the Change Movement has long insisted on creating a strong national line? Does he not know that the government, also monotonously, excludes the Council of Political Heads, invoking its failure to convene them on SYRIZA and indeed on serious national issues? Why does the government exclude national understanding? I believe that Mr. Mitsotakis has entered a dangerous pervert when he says he has informed the political leaders, implying that he has informed the Chief of Officer Counterfeiting. Of course he's wrong. However, this country does not need bilateral or interpersonal agreement, but institutional national agreement. And what was revealed is not a national understanding. We have to say once again that the request to convene a Council of Political Heads is not about the day, but about the process, the national consultation, what precedes the formation of a national line. If that is not understood, we will not achieve what we can. Of course, the diplomatic path is, and of course, promoted as a priority in the face of Turkish aggression. However, its effectiveness obviously depends on the formation of the national front and the degree of deterrent power of the Armed Forces. Especially after the weak reactions of the European Union and NATO indifference, there is an urgent need to strengthen the deterrent power of the Armed Forces. Sadly, however, the New Democracy Government has so far abandoned it - I hope it has left it - followed SYRIZA's political choice to establish budgets even for regular equipment programmes. This was not enough, but last year New Democracy and SYRIZA, acting alone and jointly, voted to reduce further by 120 million, when Turkey had already entered the period of raw aggression and the violation of international law, announcing the illegal Turkish pact. We, as we were due to, reacted and voted against this reduction and raised the great delay in the promotion of regular armaments, demanding the elimination of delays, inertia and the immediate increase in the budget. Our participation in the Committee on Informatics is being promoted in this spirit. Our positions on delays and our criticism to everyone are tough, but fair and above all in the national interest. I would like to thank one - two colleagues on the New Democracy side who have supported this criticism, who know that delays are not about allegedly bureaucratic, but about limiting the budget that leads to slow-moving procedures and perhaps also about the feasibility of it. We are late in order to have to amend the law and make earlier procedures, which we have all taken off - we have paid them politically - and of course there are many people who have eaten, they were inmates of this quarantine. That's another conversation. We have called for a direct increase in the budget for the regular programmes by 30%. I addressed the Minister for Defence himself to the last meeting. This should be in the ordinary budget. Of course we were right, because the government was then in a hurry to amend the budget, to give money to complete some of the programmes, but that is not the case. It cannot be said that since 30 December when we approved the conclusion of contracts, the adoption by the Court of Auditors came as soon as the day before yesterday. This is not the case, there is not on the map of what the country is experiencing with Turkey's aggression. For eight months, since the beginning of the year, we have also seen the government's inaction because we have been awaiting initiatives in the defence industry until then. We have taken initiatives, we have worked with the employees and administrations of the OAS and with the shipyards. We visited the facilities and infrastructures and with parliamentary interventions we asked directly for a national defence industry plan, an update of the resolution plan for the Hellenic Defence Systems abandoned by the previous government, and measures for the immediate support of ODA and NCAs with a resolution of key employee issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u37	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. These state-owned companies may be able to implement the programmes in a timely manner with the recruitment of the necessary qualified staff and the possibility of a second shift rather than just some poorly paid overtime. We are voting in favour of the provisions and amendment on human resources and on the recruitment of short-class guns, but in general on the renewal and strengthening of the Armed Forces with human resources, there must be an important debate in the committee responsible, because it is a broader matter. I shall conclude, Mr President - and thank you - with a reference to the amendments. An amendment was tabled to extend contracts to workers' social welfare centres, for which ESEMA calls for this extension to be for a year. We will come after a few months to renew our extension. Let it be a good year and within this time to plan permanent recruitment. It's not enough six months. The second amendment concerns the criteria for the secondment of teachers. I had a question with the Minister the other day. He refused there's a problem. Today it comes up with an amendment. There's a problem. Disabled persons or parents and disabilities teachers should have a flexibility. In addition to the rigidity of the Gavroglou law, which says that for two years if you've been placed, you're not going anywhere, there's got to be flexibility to place themselves with social sensitivity. The social criteria for multitexts have been abolished. Is the same thing going to be done for people with disabilities? So there is this mistake here: it says that the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Colleague, you've reached eleven minutes. This is at the expense of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u40	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u41	You're not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u42	I'm done. I'd be done now. It says that the amendment for a 67% and 75%. Seventy-five percent are new. There's no 75%. Or 50% is or 67% or 80%. It says the Gabroglou Act that 50% is taken into account in appointments, 50% in travels. I would ask that it be corrected. It's a huge distortion of the system that's in place. CSRs don't decide for 75%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u43	I would ask that the time be respected, because it is at the expense of other colleagues. We shall be required later to ask for Parliament's approval of the seven minutes to be six with one tolerance. There's no other way. We won't have time to finish. We said that the roll-call vote would definitely take place at 9 o'clock. There are still thirty fellow speakers and no parliamentary representative has spoken. You can't do that. We're not going to finish. Mrs. Macrie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since taking over the country's governance, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has constantly demonstrated that it is facing all international and national challenges with seriousness, determination, methodicity, organised plan, programming, logic, soundness and, above all, calmness. Despite the extremely unfavourable international economic environment created by the health crisis due to the coronary, as well as the serious occurrence of the neighbouring country's dispositions to challenge our sovereign rights and a threat to our national integrity, the central axis of the targets and policies of Mr Mitsoitakis and his Government remains consistently the relief of society from the effects of the coronary pandemic and the maintenance of the country in a development path, without creating false anticipation for the citizens, but by developing a fertile and honest relationship with them, with acts and comparable work that slowly strengthen the relationship of trust that has been hardened and to a lasting extent breaks down, without further intensifying the already existing and normal human struggle and insecurity, but by creating the conditions with actions and actions that promote the development of a new self-confidence, a new national of optimism and sureness that we will become more successful in this crisis and will succeed in the future. Besides, the Greek society has now been shielded after an unprecedented 10-year economic crisis and developed and conquered an extremely high level of maturity. In her attitude during the pandemic, she has rejected every grievance of populism. Responsibility for data and situations is appreciated and fully realises that the size of this health crisis has global characteristics and implications, while at the same time it shows a great personal responsibility and a great degree of social solidarity. At the most difficult juncture Greek citizens with their conscious behaviour, discipline and cooperation proved their consistency and wisdom. Ladies and gentlemen, in this direction and logic, this draft law of the Ministry of Health, which also includes arrangements for other ministries and the ratification of the two acts of legislation in the summer, is on the side of the tested society of all the crossroads, in order to address the economic consequences of a coronary with the smallest possible consequences. They deserve warm congratulations to the political leaderships of the Ministries of Health, Economics, Labour and Social Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Education and Religious Affairs, as well as to the Protection of the Citizen, for a series of urgent arrangements to deal with the dispersion of COVID -19 of emergency needs, as well as to support the floods of Evia through the granting of significant duty-free assistance. The two legislative acts currently being ratified demonstrate the titanium efforts of the past months of the government. First of all, the Ministry of Health managed to manage the health crisis successfully, but also to shield the National Health System. It is no coincidence that, at the beginning of this crisis, the ICMs were five hundred and fifty-seven, and today they amount to nine hundred and fifty with the prospect of reaching the end of the year of touching the thousand two hundred, which is the average of beds in the European territory. At the same time, thousands of medical and nursing staff have been recruited and the Prime Minister has already announced new recruitments from Thessaloniki, new interventions to upgrade public health. It is also right to regulate the possibility of the Minister for Health to act flexibly when there is an exceptional need for the health support of structures. I should also like to mention the reinforcement of the health systems achieved by providing ambulances from the EAW, the employment of private doctors in public hospitals and health centres, with the EAW access to the COVID patient register -19. However, I must also welcome the government's decision to strengthen urban transport in Athens and Thessaloniki in order to avoid crowding and improve the service of the passenger by renewing the bus fleet and the recruitment of staff. I also welcome the initiative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on a series of regulations that demonstrate the sensitivity to work, but also the provision of guarantees to the entire production potential of the country. The same extremely successful effort is being made by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, since its vigilance and readiness to provide distance education to primary and secondary pupils who cannot follow the educational process alive was exemplary. It is also important to be able to recruit temporary alternates with fixed-term employment contracts for a minimum of three months in order to respond to possible emergency needs due to the pandemic. The same excellent thing is the provision of means of protection for the coronary by emergency procedures by municipalities for all school units and the recruitment of cleaning staff for them. I shall also praise the amendment tabled by the Minister for the disabled and the multitude who is also in the right direction. I wonder why I heard some objections and objections. I will close my position optimisticly, with the great national success of the government negotiating the resources of the Recovery Fund, but also with the great challenge for Greece to reconstruct its productive model with them. This important European capital available to us is the starting point for a strong and aggressive policy, so that the Greek economy recovers in 2021. We shouldn't waste it. On the contrary, we must move towards a huge national effort with wisdom, seriousness, realism and a team spirit so that it can be channelled effectively and with added value over the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a roadmap of targeted actions and good practice in order to address multiple and complex issues that have been developed and created during the health crisis. Resolving these issues requires the vigilance and determination, cooperation and responsibility of all of us. Above all, it requires consensus and convergence and to promote policies that guarantee the sustainability and development prospects of our society. I therefore call on everyone and everyone to join in this demand of times, in order to face up to and defeat the pandemic and to justify the confidence of the Greeks in the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs. Perka Theophistis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that not accepting a mistake and not recognising the reality is certain to lead to wrong decisions. But when these decisions concern a government's legislative work, mistakes are upgraded to tragic results for the country. You have learned no lessons from failure in tourism issues, none of the tragic consequences due to the management of your government's social crisis in the field of the economy. The results of your economic policy, of course, appeared before the pandemic, with 0.9% recession in the fourth quarter of 2019. It is therefore the policy that is responsible, because we have heard this and, as usual, the New Democracy, it has also been in the recent economic crisis, it considers that it is a natural disaster and that politics does not play a part. Schools are being opened today, such as - with fewer teachers, fewer cleaners, shortfalls in the media, but with more students in the classroom. We said, if you don't admit a mistake with the cameras in the classroom, the experts, the educational community, everyone, the opposition in vain. Today, you are voting on it. With regard to the quarterly and six-month fixed-term contracts for substitutes Mrs Keramos told us that we are looking after public money. It seems to her opinion that it is very expensive to invest in education, to the best of our value, that we have as a society, the youth, that is to say, but let her communicate with Mr Karamanlis, because temporary recruitment is an indefinite time. It is, in other words, considered too cheap for transport, very expensive for education. But what is really unacceptable is the regulation on unpaid work. As much as we have measurable data on how labour protection is a decisive factor in fair and sustainable development, your neoliberal obsessions once again lead the country on the rocks. These same obsessions are that they met at the time of the memorials with the IMF and imposed the establishment of the subordinate, lowering the threshold. They are the same obsessed that you claimed that the abolition of the subordinate and the increase in the minimum wage from the left government in 2018 would lead to redundancies. It happened exactly the opposite. We call on you to withdraw the provision for further flexibility. It's a scary word we heard yesterday from the Prime Minister's mouth and we really scared. With the reduction in overtime costs, you will have a negative impact on employment, on unemployment, and you will be responsible for increasing the recession, but also for the sign of an anti-government government. In addition, the old known recipe that destroyed the country: Gifts to the hosts, direct assignments, set up shops, disseminating public money, OSCE may conclude bus rental contracts with the CBS as if no one had heard from the Government about the tenders for transport works. You don't give direct transport with assignment. You are not blocking from the OSCE the right to public transport for the benefit of a private company without a tender. This model, however, was also used in Thessaloniki, where one third of the transport project was given by direct delegation. The same model of Thessaloniki also comes here with the rental of gold buses, because they cost 130,000 euros one, with photographic provisions, where after the end of leasing OSH can buy it at a minimum price, but as 15 000 euros are provided for. Of course I will not say for once in this Chamber that you could have continued the competition made by the SYRIZA Government. Of course, you should adapt to the recommendations of the Preliminary Appeals Authority and continue the tender. Not even in 2021 will there be new buses with a competition, neither Thessaloniki nor Athens. But the big party is back in OSTH. For four months it may conclude direct contracts of an undetermined duration, without a tender, without an advisory committee, amounting to EUR 418,000 for supplies of EUR 5,2 million for projects. And of course we have the strangulation of the AACC with suffocating deadlines for recruitment to the OSCE, which are necessary, but cannot be done in this way. I really do not understand how cynicism you bring to the House such an MFF that trespass any concept of law and any legal procedure. One wonders what kind of democracy we have, when the written agreement becomes a written understanding, results in a record of an oral agreement, at the same time that the Prime Minister announces a mammoth armament programme without the necessary institutional actions and the recruitment of fifteen thousand to the Army. In the National Health System we have less than five thousand health workers. The schools opened up with twenty thousand less substitutes. The privatization of Pinochet supplementary pensions is announced. The half-wage labour force, half-wage employment and unemployment subsidies through the suspension of contracts of employment, is continuing. Confirmed smuggling against retired people, as violating the decision of the S.H.E. You have provoked most of the retrospectives. It concludes the protection of first residence with the bankruptcy bill, but the Prime Minister regrets apologies to a publisher for his parliamentary group. And I wonder about democracy, because at the same time the media say nothing. The Pecha list went well. But I shall also speak about the last minute's late amendment - we are used to this - by the RIS. It is not the Minister's place, but I think we can say a few words about the sloppyness that runs through the whole amendment. When will this state finally function as it should? Here Article 1 amends itself, the recent law that has been passed essentially for the selection of heads, and it seems that you are unable to withstand the three-member committee or one member of the AACC. In Article 3, which concerns Eyes, we see opaqueness, we see work as we have done before. Is there a contract that doesn't have a budget? There is no budget according to the General Accounting Office of the State. I shall proceed to Article 4. Listen. You voted for a law, No.4685 to unblock the RAE, not only it has not been unblocked, it is too late, it is not the manual ready, and it is at the expense of investment in RES. This is the final state you have set up, this is the drafting of the proposals or the legislation you bring at the last minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u47	We shall proceed with Mrs Skondra from New Democracy and then with Mr Dionysios Apipe from New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the new school year begins so let me move on to wish our children, parents, teachers a good start, a good, safe and creative year, and with understanding and cooperation, of course, the fight to safeguard health. Ladies and gentlemen, in these days Greece faces at the same time three very serious challenges. We are called upon to deal with Turkey's aggressive attitude on a diplomatic but also operational level. At the same time, we had the total destruction of the reception and identification centre in Moria. Finally, the government is called upon to deal with the second epidemic wave of the coronary. With regard to the first two, Turkish provocatives and the resurgence of immigration after the arson of the facilities in Mytilini, the New Democracy Government, and the Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with serious, targeted and decisive diplomatic moves, defends our national sovereign rights and moves to institutional level along with our partners. In the part on dealing with the impact of the Koronian world pandemic we are today discussing in plenary this draft law of the Ministry of Health, which ratifys the two legislative acts from 10 and 22 August 2020 respectively. These are urgent arrangements, which are deemed necessary, including, inter alia, to address emergency needs faced by the National Health System in measures to protect citizens against the possible dispersion of the pandemic, to support the labour market in general, to support tourist enterprises and to protect workers in them, to measures to strengthen urban transport, to arrangements which were deemed necessary by the experts to ensure the safety of young people in the educational process and finally to support our fellow citizens in Euboea affected on 8 and 9 August. These are briefly the measures and regulations which we are now called upon to ratify. These are regulations which, because of their exceptional nature, have already taken the lead. Is it therefore easy to understand that the basic question, which we are asked to answer today, is whether we are aware of the criticality of the circumstances by being held responsible for national unity or whether micropsy and populism prevails once again in the end? Ladies and gentlemen, our homeland is once again in its history a critical period of multiple and multi-level challenges. These are crises, which are all of an absolute exogenous nature, that is, they were not caused by Greece or by its Government, and are therefore not just about our country. They are also dynamic crises and not static ones whose daily data changes. We must stress this because that is the basic challenge which the Government of New Democracy has to face when we are discussing the measures and regulations which are being introduced into our legal order today. The first wave of coronary pandemic hit the world community just a few months ago, causing the biggest recession for the whole world economy not only in Greece since World War II. Greece has faced this recession in the first half of the year with a lower average recession than the Eurozone average. However, this recession forced not only Greece, but the whole of Europe to change policy. They were spent and will continue to spend huge sums of money. The government estimates that it will eventually reach liquidity and budgetary expenditure at EUR twenty-four billion, but necessary to keep the country's economic and social fabric alive. In the first phase of the pandemic, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has succeeded, and we all recognise that internally and abroad. Of course everyone except the Anti-Population, who did not hesitate at that time and once again does not hesitate and now abuse an exogenous global crisis to serve micropolitical objectives. Now the government makes further arrangements to shield the state and society and to mitigate the impact of the coronary. Therefore, instead of having a substantial and serious parliamentary debate on the regulations introduced by you, you are taking on opposition krone and divisive rhetoric. Enlargement rules are introduced to extend the scope of the measure of suspension of contracts in enterprises, food, culture, sport and any other sector which is seriously affected by the pandemic. Workers are included in the 'Cooperation - WORK' mechanism. Private doctors are employed in public hospitals to deal with emergencies and at the same time doubled the ICUs of the public health system. Exceptional measures shall be taken to support transport, supply of personal protection measures and the recruitment of cleaning staff of school units. There is an extension of the reduction in the renting of professional spaces, of the principal residence of dependent members, students and seafarers. Measures are being taken to support leasers. Special-purpose compensation shall be paid to workers who are suspended. Temporary alternates of teachers and members of special educational staff and special assistants shall be recruited. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we are making every effort to take action on the new wave of the pandemic that appears, and at the same time we are facing an extremely aggressive Turkey and a crisis of immigration with the phenomena that we have experienced a few 24 hours ago in Moya. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Throughout this process, you, gentlemen of the Opposition, and especially of the Officerial Opposition, do not find the power and the political courage to overcome your evil self. Of course, you are charged with this and not the government. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy will in any case do what is necessary to ensure our country and our fellow citizens. That is the essence of our political responsibility and seriousness and our difference with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Dionysios Akypis from the New Democracy has the floor and then the Parliamentary Representative of the Hellenic Solution Mr. Hetas will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my introduction today with the announcements of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis from Thessaloniki. At the moment, our country is again being called upon to stand up to both a global and unprecedented health crisis and its effects on our economy and on the degraded situation in the Aegean Sea, with Turkey constantly provoking and developing a climate of tension. It is now clear and undeniable that the New Democracy Government does not stick with its hands in the face of the situation. On the contrary, in a persuasive manner of time, we opt for action. We choose to take decisive measures, which have a manifest and measurable effect on the health of our fellow citizens, real support for employment, businesses, income of the weakest, market liquidity and, of course, the defence of our national interests. In this context, the Prime Minister has announced a full set of 12 measures of EUR 6.8 billion, aimed at strengthening our economy as a whole. At the same time, he announced six decisions that multiply the power, functionality and effectiveness of Greek weapons, while increasing the human potential and modernising the structures of the Armed Forces. I'm coming to today's bill. Today we are discussing the ratification of two acts of legislation, which regulates a large number of issues, which relate to the faster and more effective response to the consequences of the new krone pandemic. These are regulations whose aim is no more than the shielding of society and the relief of our economy, the direct reinforcement of workers and businesses, care for vulnerable social groups and households in our country. By ratifying the two legislative acts, the Government has once again demonstrated in practice that it is essential to ensure the sustainability and adaptability of businesses to the new conditions, to protect the unemployed, to encourage recruitment, to maintain jobs and to prevent redundancies in the private sector and, of course, to ensure economic aid, despite the extremely difficult economic situation. It is therefore understandable, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy Government is here to guarantee, not only that it will face a sufficient and effective health crisis at this stage, but that it will never leave anyone behind, no one unprotected. Of course, at these critical moments, we are under an ruthless attack of populism by the Civic Opposition. It unregulated a multitude of charges in all directions. It is enough to blame us even for the economic recession, and it is very well known that even now that the world economy is suffering one of the greatest shocks of all time the Greek economy is in a much better position than other European countries. You are accusing us of tearing down labour rights, at the same time as taking important care and taking steps to strengthen labour and prevent redundancies. You tell us that the measures for tourism have been inadequate and without a previous study, when you know that precisely because of the controlled and after an open-up study, the situation has never escaped from control, and exceptional measures have been taken at any time when there has been an increase in cases in an area. Success is not whether there will be a case, but this is not difficult to avoid. Traceing, as you know very well, is of great importance and this has been a great success. You also say that we did not shield the National Health System to effectively deal with pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officers, this government doubled the ICUs, strengthened the care units, gave solutions to urgent issues relating to the EAW, dismantled recruitments to medical and nursing staff in hospitals, managed to carry out thirteen and a half thousand tests and more per day, added new necessary specialities for private doctors, who could be employed in the treatment of emergencies in public hospitals, extended health centers with private doctors and extended EAW health professionals' contracts throughout the territory. I'm asking. Where do you support all of this? Because reality always disproves you. Once again, seek to plunder and disorientate public opinion. But lies are over for you. eras, like this of 2014, where you announced the so-called non-negotiable programme of Thessaloniki, to come after and exterminate the Greek people, have fortunately passed unreturned. But it seems that there in SYRIZA you easily forget the past, as last week you forgot whose creation Moria was. You are "swinging the finger" and teaching us about humanism, forgetting that Moria was in a humanitarian crisis, mainly during the years of SYRIZA rule. When, according to the testimony of the immigrants themselves, there were incidents of extreme violence within the CYT. When people faced a daily lack of food and water. When the snow covered the summer scenes where families with young children and many others were sleeping, which simply confirm that we inherited from you a situation out of control to make it manageable within just a few months. Suffice it to say that of the twenty-five thousand immigrants in Mytilini there are now 12 thousand, while the flows have been zeroed. Finally, I would say that it has become understandable throughout the entire Greek society and not only - you have convinced us of this - that you do not care about the prosperity, security and progress of the Greeks. Everything's pretextual. You invest in the possible total destruction of everything, because that's how you think you can stop the categorization you've taken as a parade and as an ideological point of view. I shall close, ladies and gentlemen, simply in one wording. It is now clear that the crises, whether they are economic or health, are not treated by populism, unnecessary actions and blossoms. They demand a government that is constantly prepared to take immediate decisions with courage and responsibility, always in the light of the goodness of its citizens and the well-being of the place. This government is no more than the Government of New Democracy. We started ruling on a pact of truth with the people. You continue to invest in lies and destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Hetas has the floor. After Mr. Hetas, Mr. George Papaliou will speak from SYRIZA. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, thank you very much. You will allow me to say today that this is a holy day today is the elevation of the Holy Cross, a very important day for Orthodoxy. To say many years, many years in Greece and many years in Cyprus. I shall begin with the bill, Minister, Mr President. I do not understand this madness of the New Democracy to bring a right and'swipe' along with a mistake. I don't know exactly what you want to do. You have to force us to vote for something? You are bringing us something, which is right, in our own political beliefs, and you are touching it with something unacceptable. It is heartbreaking, at least for the Greeks, Mr. Minister, for those who have felt in their minds and poorness and illegal immigration and all that, to bring now privileges that the Ministry of Migration will give to all of them and to "swipe it" along with money for defence. Where does it stick to each other? Where does illegal immigration fit into defence? And you bring them together. You don't separate them. What is that exactly? Are you trying to confuse us? You drag us into a decision? I don't know. We have good lawyers and we read enough and we find them. You're not going to lure us into such things. It is amazing because it is foreseen that the Ministry of Immigration - this is the bill - can be made available to protect all kinds of housing structures for refugees - and to dismantle structures. That's what you're doing. With Article 23, collective bodies will be set up to protect vulnerable groups of the population, living in closed structures and bring it along with the strengthening of our defence. And where are you going to give privileges, Minister? Do you know where they give privileges? They give privileges to the arsonists of the Greek land. They give privileges to those who burn and trample the Greek property. They give privileges to the ruiners of the churches and to the wars of Orthodoxy. They give privileges to the fanatical Muslims that Erdogan sent here, and the hybrid war is holding well. You're giving them privileges even now. You give privileges to the Pakistani korara, Mr. Minister, which it provides to Crete and Elias and you know it very well and serves the black market. If you get out of these halls here and walk to society and the region you'll see all of this. Fund in every way the health bomb, called hotspot and fill all of Greece. And you even make field cheques to set hotspots for them. Of course, to proceed to the order of buildings for the Greeks, our students who started schools today to avoid stacking by twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight in the halls, do not. There's a masquerading, ice cucumber, and the problem is solved. So while you're wasting millions of euros on them for foods that don't eat and throw them away, and you all know it's in here that this is happening, you're sending Greek police officers to babysit them with a two-tooth sandwich and a slice of coffee in it. These are pictures of Greek policemen sending us, who are 12 and 14 hours. These are what you do to others, you offer rich meals. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Greek Solution is outside Parliament, it is not in Parliament, and all Members are on a tour. So I was in Pella County. I don't know if any colleague in this room is from Pella. One of the people who came to meet us was the president of the luxury club, who said to me: "Mr. Pleasant, why did they cut us some privileges? We got some fruit. We got some free food, whatever it was. Why did they cut us off these? And why do those who have come illegally in our country feed?" I was looking at him and I said, "Find my man, what can I say to you?" I'll tell you, we've been through this, the president has said it a hundred and fifty times. What can I say now? And you have on the black list those people who have four and five children in the midst of a demographic problem and through a hybrid war with the illegal immigrants at risk of our country's social fabric, and you don't care about these people. But you don't care about many, because we saw more people where we went. We saw farmers, stockfarmers, doctors, we saw union presidents in hospitals. The Greek farmer, the Greek farmer, the trader, the small businessman, the hard worker, all of them you've forgotten. And we saw them in Pella, Kastoria, Kozani, Grevenna, Lesvos, Epirus, Evros, in all these places where we've been. It is truly inconceivable that the statement by the Prime Minister of the country after the destruction of Moria and the arson said that it was due to some superactors. That's how he characterized the people who burned Moria, who were set up. He named them "super-refractors". The insurrection of illegal immigrants, which is a well-organised fifth pillar that has been sent to Greece by Erdogan, is due to some hyperactivists. Unbelievable statement by the Prime Minister! And we won't get this over with so easily. They're here to stay and others will come. And Moria's example will be followed by others in other structures. Unfortunately, we'll be here and see it in front of us. We're not going to get this over with so easily. The only solution and the sooner we move on to this solution, the sooner our country will break the abscess and escape, is the solution proposed by the President of Greek Solution and the Greek Solution from the first day we entered here. He told you at some point: "Rend ships and get them in to dismantle the islands. Do not send them to the province, do not send them to the mainland.’ And now I see that this solution is a predetermined one. We've told you about uninhabited islands since the first time. We will come to this solution, because that is the logical solution. There's no other way with them. The uprising will continue. He's following domino! Uninhabited islands and expulsion now! I was listening to Mr. Metarakis in the morning on the radio giving congratulations to the Greek Army and the Armed Forces. What for? For setting up the new structure in four days down! They've made the Greek Army and our Armed Forces bankers and waiters - I'm ashamed to say it! - the illegal immigrants and NGOs who sit in the shadow and control them if they do their job! And our lads are setting up their tents to stay there. So, that's the truth. And now we're going to another story. Because we have here the merciful and the humanists for the unaccompanied children. We don't know how many unaccompanied people they are or how old they are because they come here without papers, without papers. Unaccompanied shall be considered the one who is seventeen half, seventeen and eleven months, the under eighteen. I'll talk to you with evidence. Immigrants present in Greece unaccompanied in August 2020 were four thousand four hundred seventeen people. First truth. 93% of them are boys. Do you hear that, the merciful ones? 93% of what we don't know how old they are, if they're eighteen, twenty, twenty-two, you see them, they're boys. Seven percent are girls. Really second. The percentage of children under the age of 14, which we're going to hurt together, is just 7.9%. The rest of it, 92% is over fourteen years old. Do you understand that? Really third. From Pakistan is 23% of what I am talking about, from Afghanistan to 39% - our biggest problem is Afghans right now, you know it - from other countries 27% and from Syria just 11%. It's official evidence of the unaccompanied. It's the fifth convoy that's been in here, and we're whistling indifferently. Let's go a little to Greek-Turkish and to the agreement with Turkey. The country's Prime Minister doesn't want any sanctions. He said so yesterday in the interview he gave to the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. He does not want sanctions against Turkey. And the verification came when we said that he had assured the Germans - which Mr Velopoulos was calling it from here - of the non-implementation of sanctions. That's what happened yesterday. The Government of New Democracy, and the internal troika here, all of you, the Change Movement, SYRIZA and the New Democracy, will be responsible for any national defeat, know it. Because here there is, unfortunately, another right. The whole story that was set up was a theatre: to get to the situation of no further, war, war, so that now we say: Children, we have no war. Let's talk about it, see what we're gonna do. You go along with the blessing of the other two major parties and SYRIZA, as well as the Change Movement. And is there a meeting tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, Greece, Turkey and NATO in Brussels? That's what Mr. Stoltenberg says. The day before yesterday you ran into eating him when he made the statement that Greece is ready for dialogue. "What are you talking about? We have never said such things." And before we speak, there's a meeting tomorrow. You didn't blame Stoltenberg for it. Do you want a dialogue? To accept what you want dialogue, to go to dialogue. How do we get into dialogue? Say what? Demilitarisation of islands, consideration in the Aegean? What can we say? If Turkey wants a dialogue, we should have our own terms and here are some of them if not all. We will therefore accept a dialogue with these conditions: Expansion of territorial waters to the twelve nautical miles in the Aegean Sea. Put it on the table and talk about it. Recognition of the entire exclusive economic zone and the continental continent in the Aegean and Mediterranean. Withdrawal of troops from Cyprus. Let's talk it over with the Turks. Application of the Treaty of Lausanne for Imbros and Tenedos with the return of the Greeks or heirs to the houses and properties. Compensation and return to Constantinople of the expelled Greeks and their heirs. Put these on the table to chat with the Turks. Return - and very importantly the status of the Church - of all the churches in Turkey which have recently been turned into mosques. Establishment of Agia Sophia as a Church of the Patriarchate. Can you do this? Can we put these in the Turks and be together? But there's no need for national understanding about that. We have abandoned - and our President - the idea and the insistence of convening a Council of Political Heads. It's more like you're talking to each other. It's either annoying or abundant. Now let's go and wish our kids a good school year. They're all our children. Most of us are parents and are addressing Greeks today and I will tell Greek for a good school year, a strange school year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here's the mask thing, because it's gone too far. We're not doctors. There's a doctor on the parliamentary team. The rest of us are economists, another journalist, etc. We are invoking the World Health Organisation - which you are always invoking - which says that the mask in children under the age of 12 can cause problems and psychosocial and health problems. I am inviting the statement of our national communication agent, the favourite child of pharmaceutical companies, Mr. Syros, who planted him to brainwash us every day, which says that - beware, other than that science is going on, reviewing why now he knows COVID - after the two hours the mask becomes dangerous. Symposia said so, guys! They're playing it everywhere! The next thing we are told today is that children are not at risk of spreading the virus into structures - perhaps I also need my second-guess, Mr President, and I will end in three minutes from now - because that is where they are young and the virus will not be passed on to the structures of illegal immigrants. It's going crazy! They say such things to the Greek people, while we sent our children, the children four, five and six years old with masks. Put a mask on it from 12 years old and over. Why in young children, once the World Health Organisation says that there is no use of a mask under six? I don't say it, the President doesn't say it, nobody says it, the World Health Organisation says it. Of course, hypocrisy is too much. Class in schools, while outside the cafeterias were full today and drinking coffee six - six, eight - eight. Did you go to see? It's too bad! Yesterday in Kakrakio, there were five thousand people in a concert without masks, no footage, nothing. Guys, all this is hypocritical. Don't you see it? Other measures and other weightings, unfortunately. I was coming to the airport this morning and I saw at the district of Thessaloniki, Mr. Lovedro, - you love Thessaloniki - signs lights with the message: "Forensic masks, are we staying safe, the Region of Central Macedonia", instead of the messages "stamp, helmet, don't run"? Such brainwashing? It's unbelievable! I've got it here and I'll testify to it in the Minutes. There's no seriousness. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Heitas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I close, Mr President, with an issue which is as if it had not happened. Where's Mr. Paulakis? Nothing happened, nothing happened. You've thrown the political scene months now on mud level, you've been rooting, expressions unbelievable with each other, threats, courts, constituencies, and it's time for Paulakis to go to court. I don't care, I don't know what he's done. I like Paul already. Let the court judge whether or not it is to blame, whether it is guilty or not. And you guys of the New Democracy didn't say that his immunity would be lifted? Are you less than symbols? How did that happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u53	Come on, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u54	I have also taken my dentistry, Mr President, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u55	You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u56	There were colleagues who spoke instead of seven minutes, eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u57	I am not interrupting you, but I am making the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u58	I am a parliamentary representative, and I ask for my dentistry. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So you have agreed, or here we are talking about a huge stumbling block. The means of doing so have of course stirred the matter. Nothing! Where's the waiver of immunity? They were celebrating at Parliament's cafe as if Greece took Euro. Will anyone from New Democracy say anything about this? Are you going to talk? Is that a vote? First time! And I close so that you do not have any anxiety that the Greek Solution and the vote at first - as our rapporteur said - are 'no' to all three articles that entered the roll-call vote are 'no'. Mr President, I could speak for another reason, because I have a right because of my dentistry. I'm stopping. I would, however, like to call for the sensitivity that you have shown us to show it to everyone else. Mr. Kegeroglu spoke four and a half minutes instead of seven. He spoke 50% more. I am a parliamentary representative, I have spoken twelve, and I have reached fifteen with my dentistry. Please, this is not the first time. I represent my party at the moment, and I have a right to speak with my denology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u59	The point was that you were out of the question and I would like you to speak on the subject. I didn't limit you the time. The reference to shorten is a different thing than interrupting you. That's not why I interrupted you. You were simply talking about an issue which was related to the lifting of immunity by a colleague, irrelevant entirely.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u60	I have a right to talk about everything. I'm a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u61	I say this in accordance with Rule 66(8) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country has entered a new period of recession. Already in the second quarter of 2020, the recession has climbed to 15.2% without the damage still being estimated by the collapse of the tourist activity. Instead of taking brave measures to support the economy, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and workers in order to prevent lock-ups and ensure jobs, the Government is promoting further flexibility to the level of labour relations. In this hostile attitude of the New Democracy Government to workers, the element of its indifference to them is added, which is evidenced by the fact that Greece has provided EUR 2.7 billion from the European Programme for Labour Enhancement, where countries of the same size and characteristics as Greece, as Portugal, have seconded EUR 5.6 billion. The current bill provides for your favourite, gentlemen of the New Democracy, neoliberal policies to demolition basic labour rights. In particular, the procedure for suspending contracts of employment by introducing a new subordinated salary is extended as compensation for the suspension of contracts of employment. This is the way in which the substantial subsidisation of unemployment continues, rather than strengthening the subsidisation of labour. In addition, unpaid overtime shall be established for workers whose contracts of employment have been suspended, after the possibility for employers, who employ them, to determine by their decision that the work provided by these workers will be done by means of the system of distance work, and that all salaries and insurance contributions are normally paid or that workers are employed in accordance with the needs of the undertaking beyond the daily contract hour by one hour on other working days from the end of the employee's confinement until half of the hours corresponding to working days at home are completed without payment of a fee. This extends the possibility of overtime by means of a unilateral decision by employers. The unsuccessful "Cost-WORK" programme that reduces wages and further elasticizes work is extended, as it converts full work into part-time and rotating in such a way that half-time work is subsidized by half-wage pay. The Christmas gift is reduced for workers whose employment contracts have been suspended since this will be calculated on the basis of the reduced compensation of EUR 5000 four, who received as long as they were on a suspension status, not on the basis of the nominal salary. Is there any further delay - suspension, cancellation? - the minimum wage increase, at least by the end of March 2021. It is well known that, for this year, any increase in the minimum wage has already been canceled, and no provision has been made for the regulation of the uncontrolled landscape of teleworking, leaving it to the bells and, in any case, in the context of flexible work, as the Prime Minister said yesterday in a threatening manner. As far as education is concerned, the government has allowed the suspension of schools to take place without the slightest advance in the beginning of the new school year. The carrying out of tests, the provision of disinfection and cleaning services, the maintenance of distances, the disposal of other means of protection and the use of a mask are the protective framework as recommended by experts. However, this does not seem to have been possible or can be implemented. Unfortunately, the students will be stacked in the classrooms, without respecting distances, since there is no provision for adding or remodeling the classrooms, so that students per class do not exceed the number of fifteen, masks and other means of protection have not reached, at least until yesterday in schools, cleaners and cleaners have not yet been hired and take over tasks, appointments of permanent teachers and teachers have not been designed, recruitment of a sufficient number of substitutes have not been made and yet an additional number has not been provided to meet the additional needs. Consequently, this year, especially this year, the operation of schools depends on the patriotism of teachers, since the government left things to their fate, with no additional resources available, faithful to its dismissal to the public school. Of course another category of teachers is added, the teacher to be recruited as a 'temporary deputy' - a new term of work in education - which is no longer available for any other recruitment and cannot therefore be a candidate and is not entitled to be recruited as a substitute for a fixed term, even if his order comes, i.e. to be deleted from the lists of alternates. In conclusion, the new liberal concept of the Government of New Democracy is energetically reflected in the current bill. It is used as a pretext for the health crisis in order to implement its neoliberal proposals, which are not even socially embraced, until now or at least recently, and political support for the medium-sized strata, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and professionals, even part of the New Democracy trade union representation in many areas of public life. In this way, the crisis is being transformed into an opportunity. In the field of industrial relations, the neoliberal trip had already begun since the beginning of the New Democracy governance, with the regulations of cutting and demanding BSE, and with arrangements that had been planned and voted on by the previous SYRIZA government, which, after the Memorandum of Understanding, gradually restored working normality. In the field of education, the depreciation of the public school, with its reduced funding, the increase in the number of students per department and the "gifts" to the owners of private schools, with the corresponding deterioration of the position of teachers in them, are your contagious policies gentlemen of the New Democracy. Finally, in the health sector, its deterioration is typical of the reduction of staff in this area, since no recruitment of permanent staff of doctors and nurses was carried out and all structures of the public health system have been left to their fate, hospitals, primary health care, the National Center for Blood. Ladies and gentlemen, I address my fellow Members of the New Democracy - you already have a deserving state in all areas relating to the large social majority and all this is done by direct and photographic assignments, and extra-ACP recruitment for the'mother' service. The purpose is to build the so-called "final state" of the right-wing Prime Minister, which is no longer the state that had been built in the past, to strengthen the great and strong private interests, to privatise those sectors relating to basic social goods, which, through these policies, are transformed into commercial goods. This is not, therefore, about Greece of confidence, which the Prime Minister spoke about yesterday, but about Greece of uncertainty, insecurity and the non-future for many of the great social majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u63	The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs now has the floor, Mr Brutsis, for three minutes to develop the amendment with a general number of 459 and a specialist of 83 of 11 September 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u64	Has this been distributed, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it has been distributed. Ladies and gentlemen, a process of legislation has been completed which at the end of the day added critical and important provisions, especially at the present time, to the labour market, to workers and the unemployed. In its intervention, the Government has shown in practice that it stands alongside every worker, every unemployed person, and these provisions are registered and are discussed here for four whole days in committee and in plenary. Allow me, Mr President, before I place myself on the amendment two - three comments on what has been heard, and I repeat by the committee, which I consider to be important for restoring the truth, as it should be said in this Chamber. I heard SYRIZA's criticism of anti-government policy, neoliberal policy, that we are coming to impose BSE recipes and all that. Where did you see these written? Did you see them in your dream? I, at least in the provisions, and I think public opinion does not see them. Is the antique device, which reduces the hundred days of insurance to fifty? Is the provision that extends the suspension of employment contracts? Is the provision that extends the cooperation programme by supporting jobs in enterprises to keep workers? Is the ministerial decision that we are going to make to extend by two months the unemployment benefits of June, July and August to the unemployed whose unemployment benefit was completed? Is our intervention for guides and the world of culture, which we are joining the "ERGANI" online platform for the first time, which thankfully also exists, so that we can support the artistic world and the world of creation? Are these provisions antique? Your right to place yourself as you wish. However, if you want to make a special contribution to this critical period, as you say you want to do, at least put it realistically and bring in which and which, sometimes, if it is in the right direction, we have no reason to accept. Now, on the issue of the amendment, the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, is more formal and substantial. Substantial in the sense that it is necessary as we extend the scope of insurance. These are fixed procedures which Parliament brings together and votes on a yearly basis. These are provisions that give insurance capacity to too many people. And finally, we also come up with a mandatory provision which is part of the amendment on the extension of Law 4611/2019. It is for the contributions due primarily to free professionals who cannot be liquidated by e-ECA yet. I do not want to make criticism, but sometimes we must not make mistakes in the future to say things the way they are. It is two whole years that cannot be cleared up because the linking of the income of the professions with the insurance contributions has caused a huge bureaucratic problem. It's a chaotic situation. And one year later, we have assumed the responsibility of e-FHKA since September 2019, it is difficult for systems to find a solution. But that will end. We are extending until the end of the year to make it easier for this world to regulate Law 4611/2019. But, from 1-1-2020, the House is aware that with our insurance reform of February 2020, which we disconnected, Mr Loverdos, who was a common desire for all, this very negative, that is to say, the linking of income with insurance contributions, there will no longer be such a problem in the future with e-Russian e-Vussian e-Vussian e-Vussian e-Vussian e-Vussian e-Vussiane. It has the possibility that e-ECA per day to know the insurance capacity of all freelance professionals and self-employed persons. These are the provisions, Mr President. I would also like to add that, in the extension of the announcements by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to IDH, it is very important that two interventions, which we will have in the next period, should be taken into account. One is the further reduction of three units of insurance contributions. To help a little bit of this House, I would like to say that the insurance contributions and the level that we have had up to now in the non-wage costs of workers are something that really undermines employment. I'll give some numbers. I would remind you that in 2012-2014, the insurance contributions of workers in Greece were 46,56. Then under the rabies reaction of SYRIZA even then we reduced the contributions and reached them to 40,56. This year's insurance reform n.4670 reduces from June onwards by 0.90 and we will decrease for 2021 on the basis of the Prime Minister's announcements by three points, thus reaching the level of 36.66 percentage points. The burden for workers will be 14.12 while for employers 22.54. It is the most brave and decisive policy that can be practically and efficiently supportive of jobs, workers and ultimately bring income to the workers and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I request the floor, if you allow, to speak about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u68	You have the floor, Mr Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u69	Mr Brutsis, have you not understood for so many days that, in particular, the articles on employment matters have erupted not only the whole of Opposition, but also the bodies that represent the space in general? Do you not know that these articles, which I would say, have already been tabled for roll-call vote, have already been opened for a roll-call vote? For what is the introduction of undeclared and unpaid work? Do you deny this is happening? So, why are you coming here and telling us that 'this is our interventions in the workplace that for the first time'? So please understand what's going on. I particularly insist at the moment at least that this provision should be withdrawn. That's what the whole working world wants, that's what all the institutions are asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u71	Good evening, too. Happy birthday and good week. The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to answer to my colleague, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, that what he says is out of reality. That's not happening, Mr. Comrade. What you're saying is you only see in the closed SYRIZA team, trying to say something about your opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u73	But we're not the only ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u74	What's the reality? Are we talking about undeclared and unpaid work? Of course not! Be careful, we're living in exceptional circumstances and we've said that emergency measures, forced measures, as we've taken before, and undo them, so now. We are forced into an environment that is particularly difficult, unprecedented, as all our legislative initiatives do not have precedents - suspensions of contracts of employment, special-purpose licences, no one has made them now - all this will end with the end of the pandemic. In this particular case, what has happened? We gave the special permission, which concerns the cases of children who will be affected by COVID -19 to parents and who have this special leave. We also have a case where, on the basis of EGE directives, either seven or fourteen days, if and if there is a need to quarantine the worker is paid for all days, there is no unpaid work. All days are paid for the worker. He makes half of them at home and half of them replaces them with an hour extra in eight. So when you saw these 'undeclared work', 'paid work'? All right, we said, you're trying to make an opposition. Do it in at least one essential way. Do something to win public opinion. You're always thinking of yourself because what you're saying is out of reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u75	Whoever knows what letters that reads.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Apostle, please. Mr. Loading from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in an environment which is shaken by the coronary and pandemic and their consequences, the government is creating one of the most demanding crisis management plans that has ever been called upon to deal with any government and is doing so very successfully. So, clear words, realism, but also a clear plan and plan for the next day, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the citizens during his two-day presence in Thessaloniki. Among other things, the abolition of the ENPIA was announced on twenty-six small islands. This abolition will be carried out directly on remote and small islands, something that also comes to alleviate islands. So today's government proves in practice that it is standing next to them. Ladies and gentlemen, new institutions such as health, economy, education, work and tourism are introduced to ratify the two legislative acts. I therefore welcome this draft law which has to give solutions to those who have been tested and to those who continue to be tested in the wake of this whole unprecedented crisis. The measures in this draft law are expected to work multiplely for the Greek economy, creating a new economic environment geared to the qualitative upgrading of the entire daily life of the citizens. As a member of the Cyclades, I would particularly like to focus on the beneficial provisions relating to tourism and to convey to the Stepping of the House the strong concern and concern of hundreds of our fellow citizens who are active in this area and are working mainly in the island areas where I was accepted every day but also confronted with the question of whether or not to open up what will happen next day. That is why I am tabling a letter from the Chamber of Circuit to the Members of Parliament and also to the relevant ministries. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It proved practically that fear does not leave from day to day. Fear, insecurity, cessation of production, various closed tourist accommodations are global phenomena and led to the inevitable drop in tourism. From there on, we must strengthen these sectors, which are the important port of tourism, listening to the needs, fears and dangers of our hundreds of fellow citizens. In the joint resolution which passed by a large majority of the plenary of the European Parliament in Brussels on 19 June - I put it in the Minutes - on tourism and transport 2020, it is recognised that tourism has been hit more than any other sector in the current crisis and at least six million four hundred thousand jobs are at risk throughout the European Union. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] However, the current New Democracy Government aims to maintain jobs, which the Prime Minister announced at the beginning of August in Rhodes. I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We prove this in practice by calling on businesses not to reduce their staff and by providing specific allowances to their employees in the context of the implementation of the 'ACT-WORK' mechanism. We are applying a protection net for workers and for businesses. I therefore welcome the beneficial provision of Article 7 on exceptional support measures for tourist enterprises and the labour market. I continue with Article 12 of this draft law, where, for the year 2020, the standard unemployment benefit is to be granted to seasonal workers in different occupations, with a reduction in the number of insurance days required to pay the allowance from a minimum of 100 days in fifty days. I am standing in Article 14 with the possibility of allowing the affected companies to suspend their workers' contract of employment and the latter to receive the special-purpose allowance and their insurance cover on their nominal salary. The main condition for these enterprises is that they do not reduce their staff. Once again, the Government has shown that it is contrary to unfair business behaviour, that it maintains balance in the various relationships between entrepreneurs and employees. This draft law establishes the financial support of guides, tourist escorts, seasonal workers and seafarers, who have been very affected by the general crisis. I shall close with Article 55 of this House, which concerns the inappropriate amount of money paid by the Ministry of Tourism. In this way and by now it is shown that the current government supports both the workers and the professionals and tourism businesses, while listening to their anxiety throughout the tourist season. Islands such as Paros, Antiparos, Santorini and Mykonos, but also the whole business on these islands and not only, affected other less and less. Nevertheless, we are more successful than our competitive countries at international level. The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has altered the data that we have known beforehand. However, we must quickly move towards structural reforms. Our country has no right to fail in the management of the Recovery Fund and we will not be subject to the flag of large volumes and changes. After all, the current only government can ensure that. Ladies and gentlemen, in summing up, we find that this bill is being run by an intent to speed up economic and social normality, with a feeling of solidarity and respect for every affected natural and legal person. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u78	Be well. Thank you. Before I go to Mr Katsafandos, I will give the floor to the State Secretary for Welfare and Social Solidarity, Mrs Domna Michailidou, for the amendment under a general number 449.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the pandemic, our government has been fast, effective, coordinated. Our priority was and remains the protection of our most vulnerable fellow citizens, the elderly, the chronicly ill, our fellow citizens with disabilities. Our priority is the immunization of the structures that host these people and, of course, their support with adequate staff. In a record time, our Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on March 14, 2020, took an act of legislation in order to hire five hundred health professionals to closed prostitution structures, sixty-six prosperous social welfare centres and four other welfare institutions. In a record time, within two weeks, the legislative act came about, the ministerial decisions that they needed, the notices were made, the competitions were made, and in less than a month five hundred workers were found in these prostitutional structures, workers such as doctors, nurses, bankers, caregivers, workers absolutely necessary for the safe, smooth and effective functioning of these structures. Our answer was not only rapid, it was also effective. This support has increased by one third of the workers in these difficult structures. What do we do today? With our amendment as Ministry of Labour and I ask you to vote in favour, for six more months we extend the conventions for these five hundred workers to the welfare centres, the training and rehabilitation of the blind, the Center for the Chronic Disabilities in Evrytania and the "Papafios" Foundation in Thessaloniki. We call on you to extend these agreements to five hundred workers, with whom we increase the capacity of our structures to workers by 1/3, ensuring that these resources are Europeanised. Not only are we not burdening the state budget for this extension, but we are also giving the money back to the state budget for the six earlier months. We call on you to vote in favour of this amendment and we remind you that our Government is here, provides for the most vulnerable, standing next to the workers and defending the public health of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, too, Madame Undersecretary. I would like to say to the groups that the roll-call vote will take place at 9 a.m. and will take place for at least one and a half hours, since Members will be present every sixty Members every 15 minutes. So, in total, at 9 o'clock at night the last sixty Members will vote from 10:15 to 10:30. At the end of the roll-call vote, the rapporteurs and the special speakers will vote electronically for the other articles in the bill. And now there is the floor for Piraeus Mr. Kontantinos Katsafandos from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is nothing more than a number of provisions and regulations which have to do with better dealing with the pandemic of the coronary, provisions and regulations that help to keep the economy up and alive, provisions and regulations that help not to lose a single job, which is very important, and which helps to establish a climate of health protection for all our fellow citizens, through this pandemic that we experience and the tragic consequences of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the embarrassment and difficult position in which the party of the Officerial Vice-President is located. Some people in this room were dreaming and imagining new memos coming. Some people in this Chamber said there would be savage wage and pension cuts. Some people in this Chamber imagined that we would have tax increases. But the Prime Minister's presence at the exhibition of Thessaloniki, I think, made all this clear. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I would tell you to stop bailing around all these situations, because on a daily basis with all this opposition tactic, which you have implemented, you fall into the void and you are cut off from society. Instead, at these difficult and critical times, it would be more beneficial and productive, but also more important politically for you, if, instead of following a sterile opposition, trying to make the black - white, you were coming here, understanding the conditions, national, health and social conditions prevailing in the country, with proposals and trying with a sense of goodwill to help and strengthen the country, which needs us all in this difficult situation. I am sorry to see that you are following the other road. You forget, however, that there is a time gap. You know, SYRIZA is not SYRIZA who was in the opposition's seat, blamed everyone and everything, and cast rabbits with rocks. He came to power and was the longest-lived Memorandum Government the country lived through. I will remind you of a typical example based on the Prime Minister's announcements in Thessaloniki. When the solidarity levy was introduced, an exceptional measure, as the Samara Government had said, which at the end of its term of office reduced it, SYRIZA did not then, ladies and gentlemen. SYRIZA did not vote for it because it said that it was a hypocritical attitude of the government at the time, that it was an emergency measure that should be abolished. What was the result of your governance? Not only did you abolish it, but you increased it. You have increased the contribution of solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Tsakalotos said at the time, 'because it is politically conscious of our choice to put much more burdens on the middle class.' That was the reality and this government is coming today and what is it doing? Step by step, day - day by day, under these difficult circumstances, is trying to implement one of its electoral commitments and what can it achieve? To make a country which is business-friendly, a country that is investment-responsible, a country that can support and create new jobs. Because that is, after all, the most important thing. What are you doing? You are accusing us, he says, of the great recession experienced by the country, as if the recession is a recession of Mitsotakis and the New Democracy Government. Can you not see the recession that exists worldwide in Europe too? Didn't you hear the President of the European Central Bank, who talks about the greatest recession that Europe has experienced since World War II? But you do not see the evidence that the recession that our country has is less than the average of the European recession. You know, it is good to sit down and say things, trying to convince our interlocutors, or trying to win micro-political and micro-party benefits, as I heard a SYRIZA colleague who was before this Step, saying that the Prime Minister announced a programme of equipment without informing Parliament. Do you forget, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened over your days? You're forgetting about these freshmen, which one we took, one we bought, one we rented, one came to the Aegean and never came? We, ladies and gentlemen, have made a responsible policy towards ourselves, but also with regard to the obligations we have undertaken in a country which has been afflicted and in a country which at last needs to regain its pride, dignity and appreciation. In conclusion, Mr President, although there is no one from the government's financial staff here now, let me turn to this beneficial amendment which we are bringing for the twenty-six small islands, which are now being exempted from HISA. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to place myself and ask the government's financial staff together with these twenty-six small inaccurate islands to look at and indeed to integrate very small islands, which unfortunately have no economic activity. On the contrary, people live in them, whose number does not exceed twenty or thirty, and they are the ones who hold their own heat wells. One of these islands, Mr President, also belongs to my constituency. I address this call publicly and I do not believe that I will be able to draw political benefits from the Antikythera, where there are twenty-two residents. It's an island, which is on the barren line. It's between Myrtoo and the Cretan Sea, in the middle of nowhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u82	We know where he is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u83	I know, Mr. Paulakis, that you know it, but I know it better than that. You'll teach me geography lessons after when I get off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u84	Whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u85	So, in the Antikythera, ladies and gentlemen, where there are twenty-two citizens, who each little and little are making their crosses on whether to tie up or not to tie the ship, the Antikythera has opened up the primary school two years ago, because they have finally been able after twenty years and have gone to two young parents, but unfortunately it closes this year, because one of the three children will go to high school and the whole family can't stay there to teach the other two in elementary school. I think that, like Antikythera, there are other islands, islands that have no tourist activity, islands that have no economic activity, islands that have no high budgetary costs and are islands, which I believe should also be exempted from the burden of HISA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you too, Mr Katsafandos. Now let's go to SYRIZA. Hiotis has the floor, Mr. Michaelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed very carefully at the start of the sitting the position of the majority rapporteur, Mr New Democracy. In the light of your speech, Mr President, which lasted for about thirteen and a few minutes, I would like to inform you that at eleven minutes you are dedicating them to us, to SYRIZA, in our views, to our criticisms of the government. Honestly, this is a little hard for me to understand. In other words, I have a feeling, Mr Colleague, that in a way you are trying to deal with opposition. Of course, reference to our own things is perfectly legitimate, but occupying four fifths of your speech is a problem. On the employment issues, which today's legislative initiative involves, I think our rapporteur has been fully placed on the table, but also on previous occasions. So, you will allow me to make a few points on the big issue, which of course has become a topical issue, the refugee - immigration - in the light of the sad recent events in Moria. Moria will have to inform the Prime Minister, but also the colleagues who speak here in plenary, that it was founded in 2013 on the government of Antony Samaras. Do not say these monsters are a SYRIZA construction. On the issue of the deforestation of the structures of our islands, of the KITs of our islands, of overcrowding and of all the creative accounts of Mr Mitarakis' numbers, I think it is a serious request to which the government has no significant results. I would remind you that these structures remain in more than three times as many people as the government received in July 2019. At the same time these happen when arrivals, as the government does, are about zero. Of course, we have our own appreciation for that. We believe that the zero arrivals of people, which have been pointed out and asked for explanations from the Government, such as the International Organisation for Migration, the High Commissioner for Refugees, but also a few days ago by the German Minister for National Defence, who put questions that arose from observations from German ships participating in NATO's power and made specific comments on people who disappear or re-process within the sea. The conditions for these people to remain in the structures also remain dramatic, and I think it is a crucial point, which shapes their behaviour and their aggressive attitude toward the authorities. I think it's to a certain extent justified. At the same time, I would remind you that no attempt to build a new structure in the hinterland has been successful, for specific reasons that we have again pointed out and analysed, at the same time that no request has been made to the European Union, as our own MEPs have revealed for relocation, for people to move towards the European Union and, of course, for similar tactics to Turkey. I also feel that the government is trying to take advantage of these sad events in Moria, in order to haunt and defend its choice of creating closed superstructures on the islands, a position which is clearly contrary to the decisions of the municipal councils of our islands, the North Aegean Regional Council, the North Aegean Region, which certainly does not belong to our political area. Nevertheless, he tries with various poaching and spoonfuls to split local communities and create feats. In doing so, in fact, it wants to intimidate the local communities by sending, as we know, police forces so that they can impose these choices at some point. If the government bears in mind to repeat the events in February, I think it is a tragic option, which will put the whole of the local community across. And the government should think about it very well. Of course, he's activated another tactic. It is using some willing - I would say - in order to erroneously pass this perception, namely that other solutions should be considered in order to close the existing structures, allegedly. It is a tactic that local communities reject completely. From this Step I make the Government and the Minister of Immigration and Asylum responsible for possible unpleasant and explosive situations to be created in local communities. I am warning the government once again and I warn it - let me, on behalf of my compatriots, that possible scenarios or choices similar to those of the past will have us toward them and will be treated exactly as they should have been treated in the same way as the February that passed us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. I will give the floor for two minutes to support Amendment No 457 by Mr Kostas Tsiaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I am before the National Representation to present the amendment of the Ministry of Justice. It is an amendment to seven articles, which in fact describe the follow-up to the measures initiated since March, when the coronary pandemic first appeared. I do not know whether it is worth perhaps for some colleagues to say very briefly what this is all about. In the first article, there are special procedural arrangements for the Council of State, for the Court of Auditors and for the ordinary administrative courts. In other words, the seven-day period from the debate on the presentation of documents and their legality, as well as the submission of a pre-paid letter, is again provided for. The second article describes provisions for the functioning of the political courts in the period from 16 September to 31 December 2020. They are the well-known ones that we have had throughout the previous period. I don't think there's any reason to repeat the same. I mean, more or less I think they're familiar. They had helped to ensure the smooth functioning of justice with the essential provision of the necessary measures that the EGE and the committee responsible for dealing with our coronary had somehow imposed. The third article deals with matters relating to the functioning of criminal courts with the possibility to submit a number of applications by e-mail. With the fourth article, we insist on issuing certificates for the benefit of the citizens and the courts, again with the provision of the electronic way in which they are granted. The fifth article updates the way in which specific resources are collected from the FIFG. It is in the sense of dematerialising the grandchild, being able to pay either cash or even by electronic payment at local points. Article 6 provides for the possibility of adopting a common ministerial decision to suspend the obligation to pay fees, incorrects and contributions required for the issue of certificates, attestations and other administrative documents and copies of judgments. With the seventh article, we regulate, for the supply of goods and services, procedures relating to the National School of Judges. We've got the tests in a few minutes for the new judges. You realise that everything is matters of immediate priority. I call on the House, in the same position as the previous one, to adopt a positive position, as this is all about self-evident and essential regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's go to Mrs. Hara Kafantaris from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, wish a good school year, as the schools have opened today. Good school year, first of all, for our children, for students, who, in special circumstances, are invited to move on the path of knowledge, on the path of the future provided by the school, and I would say especially the public school year, but also for workers in education, for teachers of all levels, for all other workers, managers, cleaners, etc. A good school year, but I fear that in the particular circumstances which exist due to the health crisis of the coronary, which we all know is specific, has many difficulties. From our contacts with SYRIZA MPs - and I personally in West Athens and other Members of Parliament - and with discussions with the educational community, whether they are teachers, teachers, or the parents and guardians' associations, who really see that they are active and collapsing lately, we find that their demands are common, while their concern about the functioning of the school is very intense. So we see - and I myself and many of you and social media - teachers and teachers paint walls in schools. We also see a significant lack of cleaning in schools until last week, when the appointed cleaners came last Friday. All this creates too many difficulties and too many concerns. While officially the state and the protocols that exist, the special scientists and the relevant minister are talking about meticulous cleaning in schools, the number of cleaners is much less than the actual needs that exist. We have heard the majority rapporteur, who said in his position - as the New Democracy welcomes, in opposition to opposition to opposition to opposition, because he has no positions for today in all areas, in all policies - and accused us of being opposed to cucumbers. I would say, therefore, that the government with ice cucumbers, planning for the crisis alone, cannot do so. It needs a specific framework of measures and demands, which are more or less common to the educational community and to all the factors involved in the education and operation of schools. The picture today is completely different from what the government wants to present. The picture we have is that the schools were given a mask - as far as I remember the announcements were for two - and in other schools in western Athens the masks went on Sunday, but were not given and will be given in three days to avoid touching them. I would just like to say that there is no design, there is no seriousness - let me say - for managing this difficult phase of schooling within the age of the coronary. On the other hand, responsibility is transferred to both teachers and parents. It is the transfer of individual responsibility, which no one denies that there should be, but the main responsibility lies with the state, which had four months in front of it since June to prepare itself at all levels. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that you are playing with children's health, that you are playing with the health of teachers and workers. You live in a virtual reality, and this is reflected in the interview given on Friday with the relevant ministers, with representatives of the scientific community, EGE, etc. where some directions have been presented. But whether these guidelines can be implemented when we talk about isolating a child who is likely to be a suspect case in a special room, in a special area formed at school, when at the moment there are no rooms to run a school and, more especially, what experts say at a global level, that it needs not to be more than fifteen children in the classroom, which is also a request from the educational community and the parent movement? On the other hand, we hear constant contradictions from government officials. The Prime Minister himself said: “The few sections would be desirable. The question is whether it is possible. They would require rooms that do not exist today." At the same time, a representative of the Committee of Health Experts says: 'I am not yet convinced that the few sections are necessary'. Continuous contradictions, lasting - if you want - experiments and I would even say amateurisms! We need, ladies and gentlemen of the government, a credibility on your part, the recruitment of direct substitutes for teachers and not the recruitment of three-monthly alternates as if they were consumables, a disposable material. The four thousand five hundred recruits in special education are positive, we have seen the young teachers. But it had to be a year ago, because they were already on the way to being made by the SYRIZA government. You use the pandemic, the COVID -19, to change what is in your policy DNA, and this is about abolishing labour law. You have taken us back and since 1974 as far as labour conquests are concerned. I would say here that the Prime Minister last year had said "more than 10% increase in overtime" and you are now coming and you are setting up with PPPs and unpaid overtime, unpaid work! Not to mention the thirteenth pension etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. I will also come to another subject, all the more so how you use pandemic, and how you use legislative periphery. You're making more recruitments. We had experienced the twenty-six incubations in civil protection outside SPA procedures. You come now and you're hiring, you'll probably hire a hundred ninety-two people in civil protection, in accordance with Article 10 of the PPP, in unclear procedures, for eight months, outside the PCA. But of course we have also learned that, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are also thinking of abolishing this elementary law which put a transparency and a deservedness in the recruitment of the public. You are really continuing your party, rousphetological policy, the party, rousphetological state, which you call it the ultimate state! And I would say this by closing down: we will be here, together with the institutions of society, watching, controlling and striving to change this policy, because this policy little appears to the ordinary Greek citizen, who understands what the government has to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. We will continue with Ms. Ahcioglu's Happiness from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the speech made by the Minister for Labour when he tabled this bill, in the first speech he made during the debate on committees. So, speaking of the economy in that intervention, like other government officials, they tried to have fun with the impressions of this tragic 15.2% recession that has occurred in our country in the second quarter of 2020 and to say that this has absolutely nothing to do with the policy pursued by Mr Mitsotakis' government and that it is quite funny to claim anything like that. That is why they obviously think they should continue this policy, as we heard it announced by the IGC. This, of course, which they deliberately silence and which is the most critical of all, and which demonstrates precisely that the policy that this government is implementing is ultimately a deeply substantiated policy, is that the Greek economy had been orbited by a recession in the last quarter of 2019. In other words, long before the coronary, long before even the concept of coronary enters our lives, this government had succeeded only too quickly to put the economy, while it had received a government with positive growth rates, which it even saw as terriblely anaemic, in a recession orbit, and officially in a recession, already in the first quarter of 2020, I would say again before any measures linked to the coronary begin. I think there is no need to add any other argument to show that this policy that they apply to the economy, namely the policy of tax relief at the top of a public-sector entrepreneurship, the policy of a fierce attack on labour rights and a decline in household income, is ultimately a real policy. However, the worst and most problematic point, and what we will find in front of us now, is that, unfortunately, during this period of our pandemic, the conditions have not been laid down so that we can have a rapid recovery. But we will discuss this very soon. So I come to work. Look, what has been heard in this Chamber by the Minister of Labour is, in my opinion, particularly offensive to the common perception, but also to the workers themselves who will find them from tomorrow. The Minister for Labour argued that this bill does not legislate, does not institutionalise unpaid overtime. But can he claim that? Is it possible to claim this in front of all Members? All Members of Parliament, from the Communist Party of Greece to KINAL, expressed themselves clearly on this issue. Is it possible to claim that it does not introduce unpaid overtime? The bill clearly and clearly says that if an employee is placed by EGE in compulsory quarantine, when he returns to work, he will have to pay this year, half - he then changed it, at first he had all the time - by making unpaid overtime. It is very clear what the bill provides, and I wonder how a Minister of Labour can come here and say something other than what we all read, courageous and will not find it tomorrow in front of us and the workers in their lives and their daily lives. In fact, he actually implied that his workers owe him. Because, he says, he obliges them to be paid overtime for half the quarantine year and not for all. He's giving them a present. He's doing them a favor. Instead of providing for a special leave instead of providing for a sickness permit, as it should have been in these cases, it punishes them and tells them that it does them a favor. I consider that Mr Brutsi's position to be deeply insulting. It was not just the political parties who expressed their strong opposition to this regulation. All the workers in the country said it was a tragic arrangement, which introduces overtime without pay. Then he told us that the Christmas present is not affected. I say again: can he claim that? We all have in front of us the bill that explicitly says that the employee who was suspended from work, his Christmas gift will be calculated not on the basis of his salary, but on the basis of the allowance of EUR 534. It is a much lower allowance than a minimum legal wage. Is it possible for the Minister of Labour to come here and say that it's okay with Christmas present? These positions offend common sense. It then claimed that the measures it takes are to protect workers. I wonder, is the wage reduction that makes this failed 'COMPANY WORK' programme for the protection of workers? Unpaid overtime is in favour of workers? Is the reduction of the Christmas present in favour of workers? The other incomprehensible provision contained in this bill says that unilaterally the employer can increase overtime and overtime at dock, without any approval by the Labour Council, which makes overtime more and cheaper for one worker, is in favour of workers? Is it really possible to place someone in this way? I would also like to refer to the issue of suspension of employment contracts. Look, we have expressed our disagreement with this political choice, that is, with the option of subsidising unemployment. We insist and insist that what should be done is to make up for wages and subsidisation of work. But that part I put aside. I heard Mr. Brutsi here saying that all right, we've been delaying the payment of this poor allowance for a month. How do you do that? If it's possible to make a matter of it! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] During the summer, hundreds of thousands of workers have been left without even 1 euro income, because the government has not taken care of it. This has resulted in people passing all summer without a single euro. One wondered how they survived, how did they pay their rent, how did they pay their current? Has anyone wondered? Did someone get nervous? It is possible for the Minister of Labour to come here and say 'How do you do, we had a delay of one month'? These are unauthorised positions and absolutely insulting for the workers. I'm closing, Mr. President. What extremist anti-logics are included in this bill is a challenge. However, what constitutes the greatest challenge is for Mr Brutsi to come here and say, insulting the common sense, that these are not in here - while we all read them, all of us read them - and that you think we should have SYRIZA, nor flea to the worker's nuts - that is his position in word - they would have broken it all up. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why would we have broken it all up? Because we said to make workers' wages redundant? Is that a dissolution? Because we have said that there is a safeguard clause in business employment relations, at least by the end of the year? Is that a dissolution? Because we said that the Christmas gift would be fully paid? Is that a dissolution? Because we have said that there should be a special permit for quarantine workers? Is that a dissolution? Because we said they'd finally put rules into this telework we've been talking about since the beginning of April? Is that a dissolution? Is that dissolution for you? Does that mean dissolution to you? In addition to the anti-government spirit of this bill, the way Mr Brutsi has been put in here also shows an unacceptable perception of work. It shows that it sees workers as a liability receiver by the state, that is to say, people who will eat from the state and the state throw money into a black hole when it supports wages. You do not seem to be mindful of linking labour, wages and consumption, with active demand, with GDP, which in the end is deeply and truly worrying. So meet and coordinate with social reality. It is your obligation, because the time of impression has now passed unreturned and now we are in front of the irreversible reality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Ahchioglu. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary of this House another bill highlighting the asymmetry between communication and the policy of the Mitsotakis Government, but also the asymmetry between the government's declarations of good law and the merciless reality of the poor legislature. Our parliamentary representative this morning raised the question right from the outset that, from the outset, there can be no legitimate and constitutionally acceptable method in which hundreds of articles from all ministries will then come to the vote in urgent procedure. This is extremely unacceptable and our parliamentary representative has put it right. For six months there has been communication, without there being a clearer understanding of the government's political plan. And no matter how prioritised the management of problems under way is, at the same time, absolutely necessary and the convincing emergence of an overall policy that has something to say to the daily tested man for the tomorrow of his life, his prospect, his hope and his future. It is common in the New Democracy's policy to prefer the day-to-day horizon to be interested in the impression of the moment, but the choice of communication to the detriment of the political and political plan, as the government is doing, is a mistake. So, all these months now there is no change decision, worth calling itself a social reform for the next day. On the other hand, the Government proposes a policy of'seeing and doing', which leads with mathematical accuracy to dangerous paths and with a predetermined result the impoverishment of society. How else, no matter how well-informed one is, can the government’s interpretation of the policy? The political practice of this government, how else can we call it? The Change Movement has erupted the alarm for too long, including to protect the world of work, but the government's strategic choice, in this case, is to legislate under the pressure of the conditions. The Prime Minister's communication on the measure of subsidisation of employers' contributions, a proposal which we had done for a long time and had not been heard. We have also proposed the work subsidy programme instead of this failed model, the model 'COMPANY - WORK'. We have repeatedly asked you to tell us the plan for the next day and, of course, do not tell us that we are in exceptional circumstances and that you are holding forces for later. Mr President, we must lack the forces of the government to increase the flexibility of the labour market, to reduce labour costs, to impoverish the workforce. Of course, there is also yesterday's surprise of the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, who wanted to degrade Law 1264/82, an emblematic law that has lasted for decades, saying "a law that exists to be abolished, to change it". The New Democracy is faithful in its tradition to rewrite labour law against workers. For the first time after about a hundred years the compensation of employees and the Christmas gift and other arrangements on the labour market have been overturned by the bill under discussion. After the reductions in wages that have been seen by those who have entered the programme of half-wage, half-wage, which is extended up to the end of this year, the government now institutionalises work without pay, i.e. the unpaid work which, as the government claims, creates a very bad given and reciprocated, if this is the case. What's he saying? He says he's offering a job without a reward. Where'd that sound, Mr. President? It also puts a hand on the 2020 Christmas present, which will not be calculated on the basis of the nominal wages of workers who entered the programme with the EUR 534, but on the basis of reduced wages. I have repeatedly pointed out to the committees that this was not the case with Easter's present and thankfully it did not happen. But I asked them to tell us what changed and now they are establishing this process for the Christmas gift. By this time we are talking, I have received no answer. Moreover, the leadership of the Ministry of Labour also prolongs the suspension of contracts, thereby condemning workers to live with EUR 17.8 a day. It does something else: it is further delaying the increase in the minimum wage by the end of March 2021, when the environment in which this is decided by the government, namely the adjustment of the minimum wage, will be an environment of a generalised remuneration of EUR 534. As a Change Movement, we pointed out with relevant parliamentary initiatives and interventions our concern and our opposition to the postponement of the minimum wage process, with any negative consequences, confirmed by this provision. Unfortunately, this movement of change has also been confirmed. We pointed out at that time that the postponement of the minimum wage process is stepping up the fears of a possible reduction in wages and wages, and even this year, in January, we also tabled an amendment for the abolition of Law 4172/2013 and the determination of the minimum wage by the institutional process of collective bargaining between the social partners and the national collective labour agreement. It has not been taken into account by the government, because its plans are a long way from the progressive direction that must exist. Its plans are also set out in the regulation on the reduction of unemployment benefits required. We will say that it is good, that this figure is reduced from a hundred to fifty, but thousands of workers are still being excluded. We point this out and point out five specific categories. First, those who did not find a job this year, received an extraordinary unemployment benefit and do not have insurance cover. Secondly, those who managed to collect fifty brands this year, but not the eighty last year at least. Thirdly, those who have completed the four hundred days of unemployment subsidy in the last five years. Fourthly, those who took either more than eighty days last year or fewer and their last payment is March and have not been re-entered this year. Finally, fifthly, those workers from the rental offices whose SMUs are not the undertakings affected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A slight tolerance, Mr President, and I shall end. We add another problem that is essential and serious. It is a major issue which the government has not understood. I don't know why. The categories I have said before will not be able to establish a right at least to a reduced pension, because a hundred days of insurance per year are required in the last five years before their application for retirement. Where will these hundred days be found, so that they can cover this for granted? I, through the rapporteur - because all the representatives of the Ministry of Labour are missing - ask how they will find these hundred days. How will these people establish a pension, even reduced? You must accept the situations that exist on the whole issue. Mr President, we have tabled Amendment No 453 with special reference to 'Help at home' and we are asking the government to accept it. I conclude by asking the Minister for Labour, which repeated what the Prime Minister said yesterday, on a very serious and major issue. The Prime Minister promised to reduce 3% of insurance contributions. However, we need to be informed how this reduction is to be allocated, from where the distribution between the employer and the worker is to be made. Secondly, by which or by which branches will the reduction take place? Is there going to be a reduction from the pensions sector? Will there be a reduction from the sickness industry or a reduction from the contributions? If it is done by the contributors, only to the OAED and only to what else this choice means. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr. Constantine Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA and beautiful Preveza.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me before I begin my speech on this act of legislation to make a complaint about an incident in Preveza, in particular at the Preveza Hospital. Last Thursday, I and a few members of SYRIZA's delegation visited the Preveza Hospital so that we could have a meeting with the workers of the prefecture hospital. We'd sit down a little in the hospital, and then we'd have a meeting with the workers' union at the hospital that has denounced a number of things. Unfortunately, the hospital commander asked us because of health protocols to leave the hospital, which we did. Then we had a meeting with the workers' union in the yard room and even outside the church on the back of the hospital. The hospital commander called for security and asked us to leave from there too, saying that while we had distances between ourselves and we were all wearing a mask, the health protocols forbid such a meeting. We did leave the yard room as well. The commander then, realizing that he has carried out an act which is not allowed, asked us to go to a room that is located in the hospital commander, which we did not do. Unfortunately, the hospital commander carried out another act which opposes all policies - if you want - of all these years. The hospital commander operates as - if you want - an active person who forbids any political act at the Preveza Prefecture. It belongs, Minister, - he is the Minister of Finance here - to the masters of your team. He served as president of the NOTE Arta, which is why he was assigned commander of the Preveza Hospital. Besides, there was a tramp - if you like -, former president of the NOE Preveza placed President of the Arta Hospital. So I think that the democracy you are defending is that of this range. On this occasion Mr Kikilias was immediately informed, the Minister for Health who asked me, as I understand it, to manage the problem. Mr Mitsotakis, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and almost all the New Democracy Parliamentary Group are cheap in flour and expensive in pit, because democracy defends it as they see fit. They show all the cruelty towards the young people of our country, workers, pensioners and immigrants and then one - one - one - one - of this step take the floor and apologise to publishers who think they can control the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. That's how they learned, and that's how they do. The first lesson in this process is Mr Mitsotakis, who from the IGC's step apologized to an editor because - he says - the parliamentary group did not work properly, as he wanted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today another act of legislation, which is a tragedy for the workers and workers of our country, a tragedy for which the New Democracy has an absolute responsibility. This drama has a name, called "Kyriakos Mitsotakis" and "Yiannis Vroutzis". The Minister for Labour has come here today to defend articles of the legislative act which are further sinking the insecurity of our country's workers. For Article 10, the working middle age would be a paradise in the face of what this article describes. It legalises unpaid and undeclared work, establishes unpaid overtime. Indeed, the original plan brought by Mr Brutsis predicted that workers would pay the compulsory quarantine with unpaid overtime of three hours a day, then under pressure and outcry came and did it an hour. Aren't you really ashamed of this change? With Article 17, you are reducing the Christmas gift for workers who have been suspended. Really, don't you feel embarrassed, Minister, about this article? With Article 18, you are extending the possibility of overtime by deciding only on companies. Really, Minister, aren't you ashamed of this shit? And you are obviously not ashamed, when you come here, to the Greek Parliament, to the temple of democracy and you are not defending society, you are not defending those for whom you came here to defend, but you are defending the publishers. You are going out one by one, one by one by one by one by one and you apologise for your attitude to the bill in a vote, which concerned the lifting of immunity from Mr Polakis, a Member of Parliament, and you say that this mistake will be corrected. Really, don't you have a shame? You don't feel a little bit of tea on you, say that was your political decision? Does a media editor ask you to apologise and ask for one - one here, MPs who very much defend the Constitution and apologise to the publisher? Instead of apologizing to the workers in the country who have put them in such a process, by the pensioners who do not give them their retrospectives, by the businesses which one - one - closes, do you not feel embarrassed? You don't have a cigarette? Is this a picture of a parliamentary group that comes to defend an act of legislative content? Is it possible for such articles to be passed with the workers of our country and the Minister of Labour to be absent? You don't have a cigarette? Aren't you embarrassed? Really, what democracy do you defend? What democratic city are you defending? What constitution are you defending? When you get into the world with national patriotic reports and say that everything will be solved by the increase in money in the Ministry of National Defence, aren't you really ashamed? Don't you have a gum? Does your rapporteur come out and in thirteen minutes of the speech make an in-depth reference to SYRIZA? Really, aren't you ashamed? Don't you have a gum? You really are the only government, which - I will not say the basic thing that you have said and other things you are doing - in the light of an economic crisis in which the country, the world, the economy, is going through everything to cancel everything, to attack the workers of the country. We, ladies and gentlemen, have made a political decision. The lies you throw to the Greek people every day, we will take them out at the forum, because we have an obligation on the young and your young people and not on you. That's you. You'll come one by one, one by one and you'll apologize to publishers. That is what you will do and you will say 'yes, we have made a mistake' and you will change your vote, because they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u98	The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor. He'll talk about 455 and the provisions of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to speak on the bill, on the provisions of the bill and on amendments, saying, as always, truths and not make any reference to today's Civic Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government has acted quickly and decisively since the outbreak of the coronary pandemic in order to reduce the impact of the crisis. In particular, in the field of the economy, the Ministry of Finance has designed and implemented a coherent, realistic, integrated and dynamic plan, which is progressing according to the different needs created by the crisis at each stage. The fact is that if the government did not quickly show reflexive and remarkable methodicity, as recognised internationally and in practice by the Eurogroup at the June meeting, the consequences of this exceptional situation would be more unfavourable to both society and the economy. Measures were taken within a short period of time and tools were activated aimed at strengthening the public health system, supporting employment, strengthening liquidity in the real economy and stimulating social cohesion. The total value of these sixty more measures and tools to the full extent, as they unfold and unfold, is estimated to be shaped, but it will probably exceed EUR 24 billion and will include what the Prime Minister announced earlier to protect employment, strengthen productive activity and support the income of the weakest, but always maintaining reserves for a future that remains uncertain and fluid. And because, many times, the opposition parties and especially my dear colleague, Mr Loverdos, ask me what developments in the European field are and what is going on in the Eurogroup and ECOFIN, I would like to tell you that, in fact, the common component of the last week's meeting is that it will continue at a pan-European level to have budgetary flexibility at least in 2021. Because it appears, on the basis of international organisations, that growth in Europe will reach the level of 2019 at the end of 2022. But be careful. Another budgetary flexibility and another budgetary mismanagement, which means that we should be responsible for making use of these opportunities at a pan-European level. Some of these measures are also included in the draft law under discussion, but also in its amendments. It extends the measure of compulsory rental reduction to specific sectors of the economy by 40% for the month of September. A framework of optional rental reduction of at least 30% shall be established as from September, subject to an agreement between the lessee and the lessee. It extends the support measure to renters who did not receive rents in order to include, in addition to the required law reduction and voluntary rental reduction. In addition to what my colleague, Minister for Labour, said, the act of legislation provides for the granting of exceptional unpaid unpaid aid in the form of an allowance to those affected by the natural disaster in Evia. These are the provisions contained in the financial section in the draft law by the Ministry of Finance. However, all of these provisions of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and other Ministries are financed through prudent and household management of the country's cash reserves, which are currently being formed at EUR 38.7 billion. I want to inform you that at the start of the health crisis it was EUR 37.5 billion. Today is EUR 38.7 billion, which has been significantly enhanced in recent years, i.e. since July 2019 through six - I stress - successful debt issues, totalling EUR 14 billion and two disbursements from the retention of Greek bonds, the famous ANFAs and SMPs, about EUR 1.5 billion. Therefore, virtually only from these sources have more than EUR 15 billion been raised over the last year, contributing to the current amount of cash. Therefore, inversely you understand the extent and volume of measures taken in the last six months. A climax of the current government's success is the most recent 10-year bond issue with the lowest historical loan costs in the country, cash assets that are expected to be further stimulated by using existing European tools such as the ESRB. Already, we received EUR 1 billion last month. It is also the 'SURE' programme to strengthen employment, from which we will receive EUR 2.7 billion. Because I have heard - I have not been in the Chamber - a colleague from the Officerate to refer to the level of the 'SURE' programme, to recall that we are talking about a loan and a good one, when we compare with other countries to see the grants from the Recovery Fund and there to see the comparison between Greece, which receives the highest subsidies, and other Member States of the European Union, on the basis of the country's data. All this reinforces the "armostat" of the Greek economy. At the same time, however, in the context of the crisis, the Ministry of Finance proceeded with significant structural changes. We have taken advantage of the time to create and implement structural changes. The programme of support for borrowers affected by the Krone crisis has been passed and implemented with great success. The consultation of a holistic socially sensitive and national development framework for high private debt has been completed, providing a real second real opportunity for households and businesses. The institutional framework for corporate governance and the capital market has been upgraded and modernised. The microfinance framework has been established. The development of public property, where possible, such as the project in Greek, the Marina Alimos, the development of three regional ports of the country, and plans for strengthening the viability of companies such as ELVO, the Scaramaga shipyards, EAB and LARCO were launched. I shall refer to some of these assets in greater depth, since the provisions contained in the draft law under discussion relate to them. And I have to inform the National Representation for the third time in this year of how the situation is evolving in these assets, but also because last year we have focused on reconstruction on healthy bases of defence industry structures. Our will and actions for substantial improvements to them, despite the objectively unfavourable circumstances, are primarily serving the country and its defence needs. They serve industry, economic growth and creative employment. It is necessary to take a first step in enforcing legality, electoral, internal cohesion, and instituting a modern creative culture. The inauguration of modern and stable creative culture is ensured by institutions and rules that serve logic and law rather than by auctions and opportunistic agreements outside the institutional framework, which effectively accumulate pathogens and "explosive materials", which initially serve instability and consequent decommissioning. Today we are taking another step in the strategic direction that I have outlined briefly. In particular, with the provisions introduced in this bill, but also with the actions that we have completed or are being launched, we are moving on to restructuring, reorganisation and privatization of entities. These companies can be the foundation for the establishment on modern bases and the healthy development of a serious, internationally competitive and intelligent Greek defence industry. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the ODA. The Government has received the high mission airline with major problems. Without drumcrossing it, it has taken measures and developed actions to support it at three levels, namely, those of functional upgrading, the strengthening of staff and the consolidation of legality and logic. For example, the Ministry of Finance in the last year has taken a number of initiatives. First, it promoted legislation on the implementation of the F-16 fighter-fighting program of the Air Force. Secondly, he has taken care of the direct support of the company with qualified and appropriate human resources, ensuring that recruitment through the AACC is transparent and aptitude. Thirdly, it stopped bleeding into human resources through mobility, inspiring and promoting a sense of labour stability. Fourthly, it took a legislative initiative to exclude ODA from the obligation to produce evidence of tax information, thus decommissioning payments and inflow procedures to the company. Fifth, it undone the "barrier" of the receipts, seeking to "walk" the company on its own legs and not depend on repeated increases in equity, in which it had become addicted in previous years. Six, he gave the company the time needed to settle customs loose ends. Seventh, it cleared time-consuming issues of tax treatment from the point of view of the materials delivered to ODA facilities by domestic construction companies in order to integrate them into aircraft. Eighth, he set out an internal auditor so that his findings could form the headline for corrections and interventions in the direction of absolute compliance with the lawfulness and safeguarding, above all, management transparency. Ninth, it imposed the self-evident, that is to say, that the budget of the ODA does not carry the weaknesses of the previous years and that the expenditure envisaged should be within a legal framework. It introduced a monthly allowance for dangerous and unhealthy work for workers in ODA. It should be noted that, until the end of the day, this allowance was paid outside the law. Eleventh, it recognised the need for Greece to be a producer and seller of modern digital air products by exploiting the company's high know-how human resources. To this end we have set up a working group without remuneration from universities, research and development experts, innovation and economics to create high-tech products. To date, three such products have been studied and designed. I believe that Greece should move on this road with plan and actions. Our goal, as the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki mentioned, is the smart Armed Forces, Digital Armed Forces looking at the future and not just the past. In addition to the provisions contained in the draft law under discussion, two further issues are dealt with in the resolution which meet the constant demands of workers and the day-to-day production process changes literally. First, provision is made for the possibility of overtime compensation for work during night, Sundays beyond the five-day and other exceptional working days of ODA staff. In short, and by way of exception from the general government, employees in ODA will be able to carry out and pay increased overtime. Secondly, ODA staff in the exercise or on the occasion of their service are exempted from the abolition of benefits in respect of any type of insurance contracts or health insurance schemes, i.e. the staff of ODA, with the exception of those in force, may be legally insured. All these actions show that for us, the company's legality, transparency and households are the essential prerequisite for the healthy development and efficient functioning of the company. Our aim is to improve the position of the ODA by making use of its strengths and minimising its weak points. We expect that the next day for the ODA and the Defence Industry of our country, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, will be much better than yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue with the Scaramaga shipyards, after all, there is an amendment. According to the special management, the notice of the auction for the sale of their remaining assets - the previous ones were made by the previous government, which is not a commercial but military part - is scheduled for the end of September. In order to maximise the potential investment interest and ensure the operational continuity of the company, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, the EBRD and the specific management progresses all these months dynamically in resolving a number of issues both at legislative and administrative level. The duration of the special management of the Scaramaga shipyard, which was close to its end and the pandemic made progress difficult. The granting of an exclusive right to use a saint and a maritime section in exchange for purchase prices, the exchange of real estate for the better use of the yard's properties, the settlement of arbitrary constructions necessary for the operation of the future shipyard - you can see what problems we have had - progress towards the completion of outstanding permits, the issue of the necessary certificates and the development of the process of transferring the existing hosting structure to an appropriate place outside the shipyards. These interventions solve years of problems, such as the shipyard's access to the sea - well listened - which in presumption increases the level of anticipated tenders in the tender, facilitates the operationality of the operation and makes it easier to make use of facilities and structures necessary for the work of the shipyard, a shipyard which, among other things, currently serves the operational needs of the Navy for national defence. In particular, in our first amendment, the procedure for the award of real estate swaps between the special administrator and the public and legal persons enjoying the privileges of the public during special management is facilitated. This speeds up the exchange process within the defined duration of the specific management and facilitates its successful outcome. Secondly, the right to grant exclusive use of the saint and the marine space in front of the Scaramaga shipyard is increased to forty-nine years with the possibility of extension. The proposed modification of each person, which operates legally in a shipyard, will have a reasonable period of exclusive use of the altar and the necessary sea space to develop its operational design for the shipyard. Thirdly, it regulates the question of the settlement of an existing arbitrary facility within the cavalry and sea space at the Scaramaga shipyards used to lift, set up, launch and land transport submarines and ships of the Hellenic Navy. The installation was built, inter alia, to meet the needs of the Ministry of National Defence and is still essential to the public interest purposes associated with the country's national defence. Our aim, in addition to maximising the investment interest in the assets of the Scaramaga shipyards and their more advantageous disposal for the benefit of the Greek State, is to create an organised policy for the future of the shipyards. Mr President, with your permission, although it is not included in the draft law nor in the amendment, I would like to inform you in three or four minutes about ELVO. I must inform the National Representation specifically of the completion of the competitive process, of the transition and resale of its assets. It is a very positive development, a development that is successful for a number of reasons. First, the company has been in special liquidation since 2014, whereas in the judicial decision, by which ELVO was placed under this special winding-up scheme, it was considered that the investment interest in the company was zero. No investment interest. Secondly, three public auctions had been conducted without result. The first in April 2017 was cancelled as the documents of interested parties did not fulfil the conditions for a notice. The second in August 2017 did not proceed after no tenders were made. The third in February 2019 was cancelled. Therefore, this is the first time after nearly seven years of refreshing and incomplete procedures that appeared to be a legitimate candidate. Third, the company has ceased its production operation since 2017 and as a result its assets due to the uselessness have been depreciated over the period of upward depreciation. It is also obvious that much of the facilities are made of materials that are no longer suitable in the modern industries. Here I can give you a lot of information. Fourthly, the Greek State would continue to pay the company’s annual grant throughout its special management of approximately EUR 4 million each year. Fifth, there was a risk that the tender and the other legally anticipated disposal efforts would not be completed, that the liquidator would eventually transfer, in exchange, to public entities or services or to public bodies, the assets, which would, however, be considered as of very little value after this development. Sixth, the investor has submitted an operational plan which he delivered to the clearer, R&D, which provides for the gradual recruitment of six hundred new staff, the upgrading of existing structures, the purchase of new modern equipment, as well as the extension of the activity to civil vehicles and new military expertise. During the business plan, it estimates that the Greek State will collect more than EUR 25 million from taxes and insurance contributions. The total investment is estimated at EUR 29 million. And seventh, in contrast to what was foreseen by 2019, the State has the right to participate in the new company with up to 21% - and not 20% - and to be represented on the Board of Directors with a consultant. We all know the 1% difference. Thus, the Greek State, by exercising the administrative right, has a substantial influence on the company. All this demonstrates that this development, in particular in an environment of difficult economic conditions due to uncertainty, due to the health crisis, is extremely positive for the company, which can now be a pole of growth for northern Greece and support for the local society by creating many jobs. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Greece is in constant readiness and intervenes in a timely, targeted and effective way to address the adverse economic and social consequences of the unprecedented health crisis. At the same time, it plans and acts to modernise and strengthen structures associated with the country's defence armouring and strengthening its armed forces. Its commitment to the treatment of chronic pathogens and the implementation of reforms is enhanced in range and intensity. Our aim is to turn the economy into a new sustainable model for Greece of tomorrow, a productive, technologically advanced, innovative, extroversion, smart and competitive economy with confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. I will give Mrs Fotou the floor, then Mrs Kefala, and then the Minister of Interior will speak, Mr Levanios, who will speak on the provisions of the bill and immediately after Mr Placiotakis, the Minister for Maritime Affairs, on Amendment 461 which was tabled a moment ago. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, following the position of the Minister of Finance, we all understand here now, because the bill we are voting on today is a precursor to the announcements made by Mr Mitsotakis at the IGC, but at the same time a receptor today with the amendments they make, of these announcements. Good, Minister, I'm not going to go into what you said, but I'm going to ask you a question. So after you came to say what we heard about the country's defensive shielding yesterday by Mr. Mitsotakis, what you said today in this bill, can you tell us about the level of defensive expenditure? Or is that a seven-sealed secret? So how many billions you plan to consume in this story. He didn't hear a word from the Prime Minister. So I say that at the moment it is indicative that Members of the House for the first time in the country's parliamentary affairs in such a bill, a hundred and fifty-eight is their strength and only twelve people have been declared to speak. Has that happened before? What does that mean? That they're ashamed to come back to support this bill or get bored? I would also like to know about this, because we believe that today a bill using the coronary is being passed as an opportunity for a great reorientation and backwardness in the area of health, labour, education, the economy in favour of the strong - and economic and business powerful - and against the weaknesses of the middle class and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Six days ago in this Chamber, all the small and medium-sized and productive operators of the country who came were shouting out of agony. They weren't heard. Not only did the government hear them, but it continued to be self-sufficient, with enormous confidence to repeat, as today's tale: 'We are going very well throughout Europe, in the second wave of the coronary, in recession, in unemployment and in poverty'. Mr. Mitsotakis told the IGC that growth was a little delayed due to a coronary, but the investments are here and we will eject the economy in 2021. What did you hear from Mr. Stakoura just before? That fiscal slackness goes until the end of 2022. What does that mean? That the story, the V's story of development, and we're entering a feedback recession, that is, the economy enters a spiral. What did Mr. Mitsotakis say at the ICU? 'Medium layers did not take care of them as much as they should'. And he meant that these middle layers that were consciously deceived before the elections in association with your dear media, which you are feeding - it was really a nice atmosphere in Mr. Mitsotakis' interview - in your previous administration with Mr. Brutsis, one in five citizens, eight hundred thousand people, went through the middle layers of poverty. Of these people in 2018, thanks to SYRIZA's policies, five hundred thousand had returned to the middle layers. Today they are taking the road to poverty and low levels again. That's what you do and you do it fast. The coronary is used to dismantle small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in favour of major interests. The BSE plan made it clear to the Pissaridis project. You dissolve small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, 95% of Greek entrepreneurship. One out of three small and medium-sized enterprises fears that the president of GATT will close. It was here six days ago. Mr. Mitsotakis confirmed that. Everything he has announced is about big businesses and big incomes. The tax exemptions announced, the overdepreciation, concern only companies with considerable profits, very high. The horizontal suspension of the solidarity levy that is being transferred in 2021 relates mainly to high incomes, not to those who have 12 000 incomes and you know that they represent over 60% of the Greek people, because they did not pay a solidarity levy to date. The rapid poverty of households, not traditionally poor, has already begun. All economists have said it internationally that today the wider strata of the middle class will be hit by the coronary. And these layers need reinforcement. Each unit of increase in the poverty index corresponds to a hundred thousand households moving to a lower income category. See how much the poverty index has increased this time. You are the only government throughout Europe who has not only increased the benefits to the poor, the disabled, the elderly during the pandemic that all governments have given too much money, but has already cut up 400 million from welfare. Of course you were deaf when we told you in time to give two million households the emergency income. It is a strong support for incomes for active demand, so that businesses are not closed down. You've been devastated all this time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, because I also had to say about Mr Stavoura who spoke half an hour, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u102	Don't put it in the same scale. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u103	What has happened to your policy? You have only received 2.7 billion from the 'SURE' programme against 5.9 billion from Portugal, with one-third of unemployment. And that's not random money. That's money they'd think of now, not the money they'd come with the NRP. It's a lot of money now for work. Because “SURE” simply gives so much money depending on what each government has spent. You spent a little less of it. The incomes of the Greeks are squeezing away and unemployment is growing rapidly. In the past six months, a hundred and seventeen thousand jobs were lost by the small and medium-sized ones only, and five thousand jobs are expected to be lost - says GATT - in the next six months. And of course the Prime Minister is mocking us all. Worse, of course, the Minister for Labour is mocking us. Instead of supporting existing jobs, it tells us that it will grant new jobs. If these are lost, it will grant the insurance contributions 100 000 new jobs. In other words, workers are first made redundant and then young people are re-entered with an insurance contribution and, of course, with half or underpaid wages. So simple is the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u104	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u105	I'm trying, Mr. President. Compression of incomes and increase in unemployment is the duplicate leading to the recession spiral, to the reversible recession. I already told you that the Minister himself confirmed that. So I shall end, Mr President. I said that I do not see the absence of Members as accidental. However, we shall be voting in a few hours by roll-call votes three disgraceful articles. First of all, the employee's obligation to work overtime without pay, Article 10. Work over eight hours whenever the employer wants, article 18. To reduce the Christmas gift regardless of contract, Article 17. I call on you, in any case, to take all of you away from the circumstances and not allow it, not to allow return to work for the middle ages. We vote against the entire bill anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fotio. We will go to the capital Maria - Alexandra from the New Democracy and the beautiful Yannina.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law which we are debating and which we are called upon to vote on today, we are voting on two legislative acts and we are voting on urgent provisions to deal with the coronary. They concern urgent arrangements to address emergency needs of the National Health Protection System against the dispersion of the coronary, to support the labour market and to facilitate the education process, as well as emergency measures to strengthen urban transport, to supply personal protective equipment and to recruit cleanliness staff of the school units, to support tourist businesses and to strengthen the General Civil Protection Secretariat to address the consequences of the pandemic and not just. Basically, the title of the bill encloses and reflects its content. Since the first time we have been faced with this unprecedented health crisis at a global level, the government has given priority to ensuring the health of citizens, the armoring and strengthening of the National Health System and the protection of both workers and businesses affected by it. Extreme situations require emergency treatment, and that is what we have done since the first day and continue until today and as long as it is necessary to combat this pandemic in full. This is a dynamic situation with data changing day by day and government, taking into account the opinion of experts, to take all those initiatives that will lead the country safely to the next day. The health crisis that we are experiencing is deep, goes beyond the narrow limits of health and affects many aspects of economic and social reality. That is why any action taken by the government is directly effective and responsible. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, this micro-political conflict crisis is not available. Find something else to fight against. Even voters outside New Democracy see and judge our work positively at a time when, apart from the health crisis, we faced the crisis in Evros, the Turkish provocativeness in the Aegean Sea, the events in Moria, numerous fires and others. The bill now. We see that the scope of the measure to suspend workers' contracts and to firms in the food, culture and sport sectors and all other sectors which are seriously affected by the Krone pandemic is widened. It extends the application of the mechanism for strengthening employment at work and for workers with a full-time employment relationship on 10 August 2020. As far as matters regulated by the Ministry of Health are concerned, we see that the way in which private doctors are authorised to work in public hospitals and the remuneration paid for the services provided is laid down, and the possibility of taking part in the programme of newspapers of each hospital is explicitly provided and the level of fees paid by its participation in it is determined. In particular, it is added to the already planned additional medical specialities in relation to which an emergency has also emerged due to the erosion of COVID -19 by issuing a service document and added to the reception bodies of the above cooperating doctors outside the public hospitals of the ESS and health centres. It is about the medical specialties of General Surgery, Gynecology, Maimatics and Radiology. And by adding them to the already expressly provided, public hospitals of the ESS and health centres are allowed to cooperate with private qualified doctors with a service document. The possibility of setting up intensive care facilities and increased care facilities and renovations of emergency departments in existing hospitals is envisaged. I would remind you here that at the beginning of this crisis, our country had five hundred and fifty-seven beds of ICU, today around a thousand and we aim until the end of the year for a thousand two hundred. Over six and a half thousand recruitments of nurses and medical staff were carried out, covering the immediate needs of dealing with the pandemic. In addition, all planned moves by the Ministries of Education and Interior are being made, so that the new school year that started today has a sense of security for our children by recruiting school-leaving staff and providing personal protective equipment. All this reality creates new data on education, work, health. The government and all of us are called upon to show wisdom, strong will, to assess daily data as the scientists who, incidentally, have been admiring us all these months and to respond to the health, economic, social and labour challenges of COVID -19. Unfortunately, it is not eliminated and the pandemic is not removed by pressing a button. We need a dynamic response and society shield to come out soon with the least possible losses from this unprecedented situation. So far, the government and the country have taken credit from all over the world. It is up to us to maintain this image and move forward. The next day was clearly captured by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki where he presented to us Greece which goes forward, progressing the reforms, which are shielded for today, tomorrow, the next generation of defence, work, health, Greece that we are changing, the Greece of confidence. We are fighting for it systematically and daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Head. The State Secretary for the Interior Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. I should first like to wish Mr Zachariadis a good mandate as Head of State for the Interior. We hope for a dynamic but essential dialogue. I would like to refer to some of the provisions under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, which are in the draft law. I will focus on two main provisions. The first provision relates to the mesh of provisions for the cleaning of school units. I would remind you that this government, after ten years of practically continuing extensions of legislation, has been responsible for recruiting school cleaners now to the municipalities. And not just that. I think we will all agree that a regime which did not honor the workers and workers themselves has now come and corrected it to the extent possible and within the constitutional order. What was that? Until this year - the school year that ended - the cleaners were with a project contract on the basis of which they were paid on the basis of the number of contractors who were under contract and could not have minimum rights, including the right to sickness. When a cleaning lady was sick, she had to find a replacement relative to take over. The great change that has been made is that contracts are now fixed-term contracts with full-time insurance and wage rights, with the possibility of paying overtime by the local authorities themselves and with the possibility that the municipalities themselves - they are in the provisions that are being discussed today - can also increase part-time hours at their own expense and reach full-time hours, i.e. half-hours a day, but may even be further - will come a legal improvement in this, which will be submitted shortly later - to recruit any temporary staff due to a coronary on the basis of the legislative act on 14-3, which will be extended until the end of the year, especially for staff in school units. The second point I would like to make, in order not to misuse time, is the extension to the declaration of square metres which has been starting and running for a long time and which has found an impressive response. I shall refer to two numbers: to date, a million eight hundred forty-seven thousand sixty-two applications have been submitted by citizens who have different squarely declared in the E9 and different squarely declared to PPC. The difference of squares, so how much more do they have to correct in the counties' archives? It is thirty - eight million four hundred two thousand seven hundred square meters, or thirty - eight square kilometers. To say it and schematically it is the area of the Municipality of Athens. With an average cost of about 2 euros this gives the municipalities a breath of about 70 million, close to 80 million euros. This was done electronically using new technologies in cooperation with the CEDEFOP and the Ministry of Digital Governance. In conclusion, I would like to say that among the other provisions which have an important interest is the suspension of mobility for health services and general care establishments. Because of the coronary pandemic there is a barrier to staff mobility. Also a series of facilities for parents who are entitled to a specific licence if there is a coronary case in a school for their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u110	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Plakkatakis, for Amendment No 461 tabled a moment ago. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. The proposed amendment reflects the common framework for dealing with vouchers from the three ministries, the Ministry of Shipping, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Transport. As is well known - and I am referring in particular to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs - with No4690/2020, which ratified it on 13 April 2020, and in particular Article 65 thereof, there had been provisions of support on the coastline and the market on international ships which were allegedly affected by pandemic to a very significant extent. As we all understand, this regulation was absolutely extraordinary, but it was also a one-way road, since it balanced the need for the companies to be viable on the one hand and, on the other, for the rights of passengers who had booked tickets during the spring and summer season. What do we do with the proposed replacement of Article 65? We shall reintroduce from 1 September 2020 the Union and national regime regarding passenger rights and inland maritime transport, as well as international ships and cruises, in particular as regards any payment of a ticket fee to passengers, in particular, in the case of internal routes scheduled and international ships. This is how you realise that we are also strengthening the legal security and protection of passengers and that we are showing a signal of restoring normality in the field of maritime transport. The new regulation stipulates the details of the reimbursement requirements for seafarers, international ships and cruises, for passengers by issuing a credit note, the known voucher, which will last for eighteen months, will refer to unplanned routes for the period from 25 February 2020 to 31 August 2020, as well as to cases where passengers - we understand it - could not be moved because of the well-known mobility problems or did not wish to travel at that time. At the same time we make the voucher more attractive by establishing the possibility of transferring it to third parties without any additional charge. Finally, with a view to maintaining and strengthening the country's credibility in a sector of the tourist economy, such as yachting, which gives particularly increased added value for our country and precisely because there are no corresponding provisions in the European Union, we are instituting specifically for the yochting sector, in cases of refund requirements, in cases of total charteration, based on the law 4256/2014, the capacity of the shipowner until 31 October and for up to eighteen months the voucher issue. So the proposed provision, ladies and gentlemen, now enables passengers, visitors of our country, Greeks, our islanders who want to book ferry tickets or rent a boat, to do so without any reservations, since we offer them absolute legal certainty and protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Paul Paulakis is called to Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, Ministers, I cannot resist temptation and I cannot start my speech from the absentees that created the result of the vote with my absence of immunity last week in this House. I would like to refer to the concept of absolute humiliation of the political man, who is the Vice-President of the New Democracy, being a leading minister, humbly apologies to an editor because the Members of the Greek Parliament following their conscience - some of them - have not experienced my immunity. Apologies to an editor who is proven - not because Paulis says so, but because they call it mixed-scale findings - it took a million euros in the period when you were Minister for Banners and articles published or not published in newspapers and sites, only if it keeps you from somewhere very fat you have the nerve and you have the submissiveness to go out and apologize. Now notice this: I thought it was just that. Here's the greatest humiliation of Mr. Georgiadis. On 29 May 2013, the Greek Parliament discusses waivers of immunity. There has been a complaint from the President of the EESC at that time, Mr Trieste, requesting the waiver of immunity of Mr Georgiadis. I read what he said at that meeting to compare them to what he wrote and to what he said. So what did Mr. Georgiadis say then? Referring to the intervention that caused the lawsuit by Mr. Georgiadis, he noted that "a year and a half ago he was at the Step of the House" - his words were - "Mr. Tsipras, made a speech denounced police violence and brought as an example of the excessive police force that the police beat Mr. Trim that was present on that day with a battery hand". He asked, "Is Mr. Trimes a hoodie?" 'I fly and say' - these are what Mr Georgiadis says - 'but he is the leader of the hoodiers. I am a Member of Parliament - listen, Mr Georgiadis, who apologises to Kurtakis for not letting his surrogate go to court, as if I personally had with Kurtakis - 'I speak to another MEP and obviously my comment is political criticism, it is not a personal dispute. I have no personal dispute with Mr Trimmy, whom I do not know or want to know. It is the definition of Article 61 of the Constitution. If my immunity is lifted obviously and there can be no parliamentary immunity for any reason. I demand that my immunity should not be lifted.' That's what Mr. Georgiadis said. I hand him over to the mock of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Polakis, shut it down and we'll go down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u115	Let's go down. Mr. Contozamani, I had asked you a few questions on the committees. So far, we haven't got an answer. Firstly, you falsely said that the subsidiary of the EMCDDA is being paid. As far as I'm concerned, they've been starting an attachment since tomorrow because they've been a hundred days unpaid. There's an announcement from the Association. You know, we've paid very much for the EKRF budget. We have added, beyond the increase in the ordinary budget, and 13 million a year from the EEA. Where did the money go? Why aren't people paid? We increased by EUR 2.5 million on-calls, overtime, nights, and exceptionally for both doctors and the other staff of the EKA, for the drivers of the ambulances and everyone. And that's what they say in July and August that they haven't been paid to the rest of the staff. I also asked you to tell me if you added an ambulance to the fleet. You're fourteen months government. Don't say again what you've done with the contests. Secondly, I want the evidence you gave Mr. Mitsotakis to Thessaloniki where he went up yesterday. To say the number six thousand, eighty-six obviously, you've provided evidence from the DPO commanders. Aren't you giving us that information, too? If you've filed them, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u116	He's at the 'DENMARK', but we said we're going to testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u117	Look, Mr. Contozamani. This is the fourth time at these meetings that you say so. Is he here? It's not. Bring them to us because you know we have a mechanism, too. We're collecting evidence, and our evidence says they don't match. Our evidence says that the net increase that has been made is around two and a half thousand people. I wish it was what you're saying. But it's not. Because in all at the end of May 2020 there were five thousand less people in the health system. You've been out there since. But I say it's not more than two and a half thousand. Can you show this six thousand and eighty-six to me? Because when I said nineteen thousand four hundred testimonies who were those nineteen thousand four hundred. Thirdly, I want the same for the ICUs. I told you that. Give me the list and tell me 'it was thirty-two, it is forty-five'. Can I have it for you? Because I know where it moves stone in the country's ICUs, can you give it to us? You have had your MPs say it, obviously from no non paper you shared by saying "we doubled the beds to the ICUs". Yeah. Gulliver's trips now are those. One hundred and forty-three are the ones that have been raised right now. Tell me the rest. I should like to return to a point which I said at the second meeting of the committee. Are you going to look for responsibilities why did the CSR stay with reagents for more than ten days? And then you sent them in a document of your own, after negotiating yours, to the diagnostic lab in which a scientific laboratory was responsible was Mr. Magorcin who resigned from this one week before taking the coronary tests at the private center where he was. It makes it more challenging the history they sent me. You obviously have the whole history, too. Since June 25, when all the procedures required, which are heavy procedures, were completed, the CSCE was ready to receive the reagents. It was all over. He was one of the Niarchos' donation that said "I give you 620 grand to get two more analysts and I give you 3100,000 euros to get two hundred thousand tests". How did the CSR leave? Why, as of June 25, did the CSCE end in all of June and August? Who's to blame?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u118	Wrong messages are sending you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u119	I don't have the wrong messages.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u120	Not a word, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u121	Two more words. I'm sorry, and thanks for the tolerance. I call on you once again - and I believe you will - to extend individual contracts of work to clean, safe, safe, feeding in hospitals until 31-12-2021. I've got a tip that you're planning on doing it. I hope that you will implement it. Of course, you should allow the hospitals to open tenders not for contractors to return the rodents of public money but to renew the contracts of work that we have done by saving too much money and by increasing the wages of cleaners and those in feeding and saving. One last. I got a post and I didn't see an answer, Mr. Contozamani. Mrs Vryna in West Attica even though she signed a contract as a full-time commander, she leaves two days a week at 13:00 from the hospital. We had the governors and they were leaving very late at night from the hospital, every day and day they were indulging. He's leaving at 1 o'clock and he's going on a TV show. ‘BLUE SKY’. Is that allowed? I've had another tip for another commander, but I'll cross it first. That's why I'm not saying anything. Or else I'd say. Mrs. Vrina is your candidate. It has nothing to do with health. He's doing a show at the channel. I don't understand? He's getting ready for a congressman, and they have to see her there too? How's it going? Another piece of information came to me for a very large hospital in Athens, who leaves every day and goes to school. Remind them that it is full-time and full-time. If they don't cut it, let them go. It's too heavy for the general to be commander in a very large public hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u122	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u123	I'll finish. We don't forget. God forgives, but Paul never does. That's what I call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u124	Say what you want, Mr. Polakis, please, why are we getting away?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u125	What we see is the 140 million that Piraeus, the Greater One, gives to Piladakis. You brought a provision that says if the cigarette is dropped by 85%, the checks will be suspended for two or three months. Mr. Big gives Piladaki 148 million for the casinos. It gives, eradicates, and at the same time put the 'Dynnan' 30 million instruments, not accepting - by playing late until the European elections - the market that we made in cooperation with the Onassis Foundation with 100 million euros to go to the public sector. Not "my, my, my." They're counted and costly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. You've become understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u127	Nothing will be forgotten. These bankers sleeping restless because the arrangement you went through to clean them up came unconstitutional. So we'll have to go back in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. Mr Constantine Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA. May I wish him success in his new duties, too. And wish it's within the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, thank you. To thank Mr. Livano. Obviously, we will have a good dialogue and a qualitative controversy. Be sure of that. To convey my regards and our regards to Mr Theodorikos. I'll see you very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, the first bell was ringed today. I want to wish every student, every student, every teacher and every parent a good school year. But this year will be different. For our part, we will be together and with those who work and fight for a successful educational and safe health year. But today is a day of apology. It is an accountable day because the government had six months to organize the opening of schools in pandemic conditions and the result is that. It's disappointing. I will not go into what other European countries have done, such as smaller sections, more teachers, teachers, more substitutes. Here, unfortunately, we had the negative phenomenon of trying to get dressed with scientific justifications and explain the larger parts and doubles. It's a pity for that public speech. We know very well that you have allergies in the recruitment of teachers and teachers. Fear that the pandemic also leaves something positive as a dowry in the country. Now that we can. But tell me, give me an explanation why in many schools they haven't gone cleaners yet? Why do huge building blocks with hundreds of students have one or two cleaners? Why are there staff recruited with reduced working hours while the needs are expanding? Why don't you strengthen the municipality's finances so that they can meet these needs in the process of preventing, cleaning and security measures? Why did you not support elementary infrastructure, such as more toilets, more washbasins, spaces to place the soap in schools? So far are these things from Greece 2020? So, when you brought thirteen months ago, here in this House, the bill on the final state, that's what you meant? That one year and two months later, in the middle of a pandemic, wouldn't we have the required number of cleaners and cleaners in schools? Instead of taking hundreds of posters to the Maximos Mansion, do you have to give more money for our cleanliness and schools? Also, what to say about the famous masks Theodorikou. Sadly, you are not capable of bringing about this either. Fifteen days ago, Mr. Theodorikos came out to the public speech, authorised Mrs. Kerameos, apparently took it upon him by order of Maximos and we have today's result. In some schools the masks have not gone, some kind of masks are defective, the Court of Auditors has made a portion of the contest invalid, and some masks look like, I'm sorry to say, little scarf. See how much design you can make? When you cannot organise this - which is not the hardest, it is relatively simple - I have a real question how to organise the most difficult ones. And I am referring to the hardest, because I was in Lesvos, I met with the step by SYRIZA mayor, anti-regions, the players of the city, and I would like to move to Parliament - otherwise it is to listen to it on the radio, watch it on TV, read it in the newspaper, and otherwise it is to live it in close proximity - that the situation in Lesvos is terrible. It is a shame for Europe, it is a shame for Greece. With the policy you have been following for fourteen months in the refugee - immigration - you have reached our locusts. You have abused refugees and immigrants, and that is an option, because you have chosen to make a hell of Lesvos, Chios, Samos, to give a deterrent signal. You made hell and, of course, beside hell, there's no paradise and there's no prosperity, it's a tragedy. What people live there is an incredible tragedy. And I ask you from the Step forward of the House: why does the European Commissioner say that of these thirteen thousand people on the island, some have taken asylum and do not transfer them to structures to dismantle the island? Why have you been hard to make use of the vulnerability criteria so far, to dismantle the island? Can't you? No, of course you can. You don't want to. You have made the decision to make our islands in soul stores and not to transfer any human beings, whether or not they need international protection - they are fine letters for you, they are not of interest to you - in the hinterland or to force the other European countries to take refugees too, in order to be decongested. You have made this choice and they are all washing this choice, this inhuman policy, this tragedy, this misery. It is your construction, because we handed over to Moria five thousand seven hundred people. Very difficult conditions. In January there were twenty - three thousand, the fire in Moria the other day had thirteen thousand. We understand that you have a love relationship by lying, a love relationship. Moria - to tell the President of the government, it is a pity that the Prime Minister was lying - started in 2013. By putting the Prime Minister, Ministers for Migration Policy, MPs, top executives lying that Moria was founded on SYRIZA you will not transfer Europe over SYRIZA. It's a disgusting construction, yours and your miserable politics. And the last thing I would like to ask is how you are commenting on the European Commissioner's statement, which said that the Greek Government has not made a request to transfer refugees to other countries. What do you say to Greek society? If you haven't testified, why don't you testify? Have you agreed with other hard nuclear governments in Europe to make the country, a shield of Europe? When will you confess to the Greek people? Because there is a lot to be said and there is more to be written, I would also like to put my opinion on this step forward for the abstention of some Members of the New Democracy in the vote on waivers of immunity. In my opinion, and as I read it, it was not just a summer rascal, a relaxation or a mistake. It was for some - and in honor of them, although they are my political opponents - a political attitude towards a reasonable captivity of the political system by the media. It was an act, and in honor of them, emancipation. I believe it, I believe it and I will always believe that there are serious and honest politicians in all the parties and it is the duty of all the political forces to shield their democracy and autonomy from parapolitical centres. Well done for their courage to go ahead. It's a health for democracy. We need respect for Parliament, we need political controversy. I am in favour of very hard confrontation, but it also needs political emancipation, and that is a bet for the political system in the country, in Europe and in the world. Democracies and parliamentary democracies have been afflicted by slavery. Do not replicate them in the year 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, too. Mr Christoforos - Emmanuel Boutsikakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Zachariadis, I really think he's a bit of a bit of a bit of a fight for you, the opposition, to talk about Moria. You, who have condemned thousands of people who have been frustrated in impoverishedness and smuggled the country internationally, you who had your leader presenting Moria as a luxurious hotel, while you had people in terrible conditions, you who received from Europe one and a half billion euros and you put it, and all you have achieved was to sever the country and to blame for the mismanagement and destruction of funds. Did you forget that? It would be nice to keep an eye on what we say in here. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last year the New Democracy Government was called upon to deal with emergency situations at many and different levels. Situations that highlighted the need for state preparedness in all areas. Such situations have so far been the reason to justify incompetence and failure. On the contrary, with New Democracy it is perhaps the first time in the history of the Greek state that a government has moved so directly and so effectively towards serious problems and serious needs of the time. We have restored the state's confidence in citizens, and so state and society together, we have successfully faced all the dangers. In migration, the country finally acquired a structured policy with a story both inside and abroad. We have internationalised the problem and promote a proportionate burden-sharing in all the countries of the European Union. It is clear that the situation in Moria cannot continue. Public health and, of course, national security is at stake. Once again, however, the state mechanism was mobilised immediately and we avoided the worst. We are assessing the situation and in consultation with the European Commission we are taking all the necessary initiatives with priority for the health and safety of all, both residents and migrants. We blocked Turkish provocativeness by effectively protecting our borders in Evros and in the sea, which are Europe's borders. We have responded to the illegal NAVTEX and the illegal Turkish-living memorandum with the delimitation of the EEZ with Italy and with Egypt, as defined by International Law, and we have made our country bigger. In the face of a Turkey that is always threatening peace and stability in the region, we are defending the country's interests in terms of international law. We are stepping up cooperation with our allies, such as France, and with coordinated diplomatic initiatives we are bringing the international community to our attention. With honesty, seriousness and determination in the European Union, NATO and all international fora, we are isolating Turkey. At the summit of the countries of the European South we ensured full support for migration and Turkish provocation. To deal with the pandemic now, I would like to say the following. We have succeeded where the most powerful countries on this planet have failed. We managed to keep the situation under control even at the peak of the tourist season. But it is not just prevention. Our priority is health, human life, but also important is prosperity and decent living. At the same time, therefore, with the timely treatment of pandemic, we immediately started taking all the necessary measures to address the impact on society, on the economy, on the market and on work. For the first time after many years Greece has been treated as an equal member of the European Union in practice now. We are participating in the programmes for quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank, which means declining the cost of borrowing for the public sector, banks and businesses. We have gained flexibility in exploiting the resources of the ESDP. With the Recovery Fund and the Multiannual Financial Framework, we have gained a fire force of EUR 72 billion. At national level, we have taken unprecedented relief measures of EUR 24 billion. Thus, we support the productive fabric, the workers and the businesses affected by the pandemic. We are strengthening the unemployed with employment stimulus, strengthening liquidity in the real economy with the repayable advance and other tools and continuing. That is precisely what we are voting on today. Legislative acts which are to be ratified, but also the other provisions of the bill, continue the titanic effort of the government to shield the health, safety of citizens and education, and to support workers, businesses and households effectively. We ensure that businesses adapt to the new conditions. We are protecting workers, their jobs and working conditions. We are fighting unemployment, we are faced with tax reliefs for companies. We are dealing with the serious problems of everyday life, for example in urban transport. In a short time and despite the unprecedented situations that we are living in, Greece has restored credibility and has become a model in dealing with the pandemic and the steady course of development. Ladies and gentlemen, as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis pointed out on the stage of the IGC, our narrative is clear and clear: the relief of society from the consequences of the pandemic. Keep the country in a recovery orbit. To this end, in the next few months, we have further reductions in insurance contributions, we have abolished the solidarity levy, we are establishing a 100 thousand new jobs subsidy programme, we are strengthening and expanding the programme of the 'SON-WORKs', we are opening the third funding cycle through the repayable advance and we are organising the fourth, we are paying the retroactively to the pensioners and we are abolishing HNVIA in our twenty-six small islands that have been tested most. At the same time, we are strengthening the country's defence because, as the Romans have said, 'if you want peace to be prepared for war'. This means that when a country is defensively strong on the one hand it prevents another country from intending to attack it and on the other hand it is able to counter any attack. So, with the decisions announced by the Prime Minister, we multiply the deterrent power, functionality and effectiveness of the Greek armed forces at all levels. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] In the next 12 months, ladies and gentlemen, we have promoted 12 major reforms in the state, in the economy, in health, in social security, in education and in justice. These are reforms that will lead our country, Greece, to a new era. They don't scare us. We respond to anxiety and insecurity with a new confidence. We respond to the needs, circumstances and challenges of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. Mr Triantafylides from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after wishing the rates of the educational community - the pupils, the parents, the teachers - a good year in a difficult year requiring strength - I must note that the government has had six months to prepare itself for the new school year and the second wave of coronary. He did absolutely nothing, not to reduce the students to fifteen, not to double the teachers, not to multiply the classes, the halls and the shrubs to become one single, but he came to share in my city of Thessaloniki, in the fifth municipality apartment, just on Friday afternoon, twenty-seven thousand inappropriate masks. These are sloppies, leg jobs, last-minute jobs without planning and planning. However, the issues for the school education community are not only the mask and the cucumber, they are the deficiencies of teachers, they are the insufficient school infrastructures, they are the cleanliness promised by Mr. Theodorikos in schools, they are school and meals, for example in the area of western Thessaloniki that children should not faint from hunger. What about the announcements? He was admittedly in the hole of his word "language language says the truth". Mr. Mitsotakis was right when he said things would only go worse. And that's how people see it. Cuvet on the ENPIA, talk about the tax advance, talk about the reductions in tax rates. Is this the support of the real economy, the support of the small and medium-sized enterprises in this difficult situation? Mr. Mitsotakis did not walk in the neighborhoods of Thessaloniki, Eusmos, the Forty Churches, Kalamaria, Cordelio, Eukaryia to see that poverty is growing and the masses are returning. We're talking about recession, padlocks, unemployment. What comes against us is the train of recession, unemployment, tolerance that they will not have a precedent. You're talking about self-confidence. Self-confidence for who? With EUR 503 will be called to pay for light, water, telephone, rent, child care? These aren't paid. Carta Bianca self-confidence does not exist. That's why only as a mock. There's debt accumulation, pause of payments, risk of social explosions. But I come to the main point. Mr. Kontozamanis is not here with whom I met several times. Three times we met with timely questions on the subject of workers in the first line of the ESS. ‘No worker in the ESS without a permanent employment relationship’ should be the main and inextricable position. Conversion of the contracts of the four thousand workers from the OAED, subsidiary doctors and other ancillary staff in indefinite time is the elementary price, respect, encouragement in this world of workers who have entered the departments of coronary hospitals who will continue to face the second and the next wave of pandemic, saving lives. That's the S.H.I.E.L.D. Employees are the ESS. Neither the necessary respirators, nor the necessary ICMs, nor the necessary infrastructure could operate without the people of the HSY, doctors, nurses, other personnel. "The ESS is being strengthened..." the Prime Minister told us yesterday "and in staff with four thousand nurses, mainly by those who served as an adjunct to the pandemic." In other words, in flexible forms of employment, 13 thousand people work in the NSR. Four thousand are working with the OAED programme which closes four years of renewed annual contracts. There are a thousand old adjuvants from 2014 until today. Two and a half thousand ancillarys have been in 2018 that closes two years in December. And it's about five more thousand with individual contracts of work in cleanliness and guard. All of these cover standing and constant needs, since empty organic positions are forty thousand. The State itself finds that their absence is unpaid. That's why it renews their contracts. Your Government, seeing the major gaps, hired - and well it did - in March 2020 to date due to the exceptional needs of COVID - 19 additional five thousand assistants. However, the number of permanent employees of the NHR 2020 is less than that of 2019. Composition: The European Commission before a coronary by mouth of the Commissioner for Health, Mrs Tisen, on 24 May 2019, urged the Greek State to convert the fixed time into an indefinite time for workers to health. If the state considered that it did not need them, it would not renew three times outside the COVID period -19 their contracts. The cost of the 45 million and 50 million needed for their permanentisation, costs due to COVID -19, they are excluded from the debt and are not taken into account in the country's debt. Is the euro measured for a human life? This world really deserves simulation. They have the necessary supporting documents. They have the necessary titles. They have the necessary experience. No worker in the ESS without a permanent employment relationship! After all, Mr Kontozamanis who is missing now - he left shortly before I started my speech - had come to a timely question on 19 June, 13 July, 30 May in Parliament. And he answered our questions: "All contract workers will remain in the ESS because they all need it." That's what you said. "The needs are enormous. No one's left over from the National Health System. We need them." That's what Kontozamanis said. "The necessity and safeguarding of these positions is indeed vital to these health structures." Kontozamanis: "We are in discussions with the relevant ministries in order to ensure the best possible solution. I am sure that in a very short time we will have an answer on this matter." That's what he told me on May 30th. We get to the third wave. It's been since May 30, from my first question, three and a half months. How does Mr Kontozamanis mean for a very short time? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Stop opposing the opposition. You know that during the memoranda the correlation of permanent recruitment was five pensions - one intake. It was when Blonde and Paulakis, Paulakis and Blond who fought in all kinds of jobs to keep the National Health System upright. Because the aspiring hug of the troika was clear: five pensions, only one intake. That is not the case today. You're fourteen months government. We're on the second wave of the coronary. When will you implement the promises? When will the applause in the balconies not be seen as the great mockery, the great stumbling, the great fraud, Mr Mitsotakis, but will be the act of recognizing workers in health? Do you really think - and Mitsotakis said this - that we are more armored than we were in the first wave of coronary? The cases in our region, in northern Macedonia, in Thessaloniki were multiplying. The tubes, too. Whole counties of northern Greece enter quarantine. Clinical and hospital units in Thessaloniki are faced with cases within medical and nursing staff and inactivated clinical and hospital units. And I close with this: we told you, dismantle the hospitals of Thessaloniki. Andreas Blondus told you so. Separate the cases of COVID -19 from treating other diseases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u135	I shall conclude, Madam President. And thank you for your understanding. We suggested that you use the closed "Lomadon" and the history of "424" in the center of Thessaloniki that could be used as a reception and separation area for suspects and confirmed cases that would then, if they were serious cases, be directed towards the reference hospitals, i.e. "AHEPA" and "Papanikolaou". Indeed, are you claiming before the Greek people, Mr Mitsotakis, that we are now better than the first wave? Your citizens are listening and judged, as are your Members who, in their abstention, have sent you a very strong message. Because the confession of interlocutory conflicts - and with this I am closing down, Madam President - with Article 60(1) of the Constitution: Members have an unlimited right of opinion and are placed with their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we wish a good and productive school year. Unfortunately, travel to knowledge this year begins with a lot of problems that are abrupt to sloppy and late government choices. You have had, ladies and gentlemen of the government, five months to prepare for the start of schools. You, instead of reducing students to their classroom, have increased, which is a pan-European originality. You didn't hire more teachers. You didn't increase the halls. You have not hired more staff to clean up, as the rules for dealing with pandemic require. You have not arranged for a sufficient number of masks and protection instruments for the school community. We wish and hope that all of this will not lead to risks for students, teachers and parents. Ladies and gentlemen, today's procedure in Parliament comes to ratify emergency measures for the pandemic. But the crucial is work-related issues. For the first time, there are laws of the State with your vote, provisions which have not been understood by any other government, nor during the memorandum years, to bear. In fact, the sloppy, limited and extremely poor announcements of the Prime Minister at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki confirm that the neoliberal leg of the government will continue to be more intense, more restrictive, more aggressive toward workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is being implemented - and it will be implemented even more strongly - by the plan for the degradation of the rights and the equilibrium of the social state. In order to make this plan understandable, I will make a little historical regression. In November 2010, the Association of Greek Industrialists, BSE, handed over to the then Minister for Development, Competitiveness and Shipping of PASOK, Mr Chrysochide, his proposals for work. One of the BSE proposals then was to clear overtime by reducing working hours. So, what did the BSE proposal suggest? To enable the employer to reduce working hours by one hour a day, i.e. instead of an eight-hour period, and at the remaining time to replace it with unpaid overtime. This was in November 2010. Mr Chrysochoidis, even then, after the meeting, said that he found useful and important the proposals of the association to improve the business environment. The request was then not met as it was founded to import unpaid overtime for the first time. For this reason it was characterized by the Ministry's service actors as provocative and reactionary to the Ministry of Labour. During the memoranda, the request for BSE was suddenly incorporated into the proposals from the International Monetary Fund for industrial relations. He kept entering the negotiating table on the part of lenders. However, neither the Samara Government - Venizelos 2012-2014 and the Minister of Labour at the time, Mr Brutsi, had thought of bringing such a provision to the vote. The request did not stop being placed on the SYRIZA government either. But he was successfully disguised. At the same time, the statements by the legal advisers of BSE on this issue continued and we see that, over the years, large businesses considered that such a provision would improve the flexibility and so-called competitiveness of the economy. Recently the issue came back in the context of the Pissaridis report. The Committee proposes the rationalisation of the crisis and overtime costs and continues: 'Flexibility in overtime use is important for economic activity'. And that is how we get to today's provision, which allows the employer, when his worker enters a compulsory quarantine of seven or fourteen days, to be able to offset the duration of the quarantine with an hourly overtime paid each day. In fact, in the original arrangement, as you remember, there were three hours overtime without remuneration. After the outcry and reaction, the Ministry retreated, but the substance of the order remains. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you are voting for unpaid work for the first time in labour law, for the first time in the country's legal order. Unfortunately, the anti-government regulations in this anti-government bill do not stop here. For the first time after almost a hundred years the government has literally cut the Christmas present in the private sector, even up to 35%. This effort you remember began with the cut of the Easter gift and is completed with this provision. It provides, in other words, that the Christmas gift will not be calculated for workers on a job suspension and job suspension today there are about one million workers. Not all of these workers will therefore be counted on the Easter gift on the actual salary, but on the poor allowance of EUR 532 per month. It is worth noting, of course, that the State's participation in the Easter gift, which was given three months ago, has not yet been paid after three months. The bill also includes the provision for extension of work suspension provisions. In other words, unemployment continues to be subsidised and workers continue to be forced to reduce their earnings and are, of course, forced to continue living with the EUR 532 per month and cannot, of course, meet their obligations. It extends the programme 'COMPANY WORK', the failed programme 'COMPANY WORK', which, of course, provides for horizontal reductions in the wages of workers by 20%. We therefore have the creation of an ELDORADO flexibility and redundancies. Another regulation provides for the possibility for employers' enterprises which have exhausted the statutory ceilings on overtime of their employees to employ them overtime without signing a Ministerial Decision. Thus, thousands of workers who have been working in high intensity for several months - in pharmacy, health structures, food trade and others - will continue their long-time and extinct employment by the end of the year. Finally, the opening and conclusion of the consultation procedure for the definition of the statutory minimum wage is suspended for months and the remuneration of five hundred thousand employees in the private sector and other workers, in which OAED, maternity and other benefits are linked to the minimum wage, is set aside. Your election commitment to raising the minimum wage goes for a walk. With all these provisions, you have a rapid decline in the income of workers, and you obviously do not care about reducing demand, reducing consumption and the overall negative effects on the economy. In conclusion, it appears that these new regulations are aimed at the core of the protection of labour law, overthrowing and abolishing regulations and workers' rights that have been in place for decades. The government makes a choice for absolute flexibility and insecurity for workers with wage reductions and redundancies. It is not just employment rights that are degraded, gentlemen and gentlemen. They're practically levelled. You are carrying the costs of new measures into the backs of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is known that the unsuccessful recipe of the memorials returning even more aggressively.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Comrade, you're shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u139	This time, however, there is no dragon in the story. This time, the restriction that is the core of your political choices is clouded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Before Mr Hatzigiannakis comes to Stepma until he is fired, I would ask the Secretary of State for Energy and the Environment, Mr Economou, for his position on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Madam President. The Ministry of the Environment has tabled an amendment with four articles concerning the following topics: The first article is about the Natural Environment and Climate Change Agency, the OFYPEKA, and is in the process of activation. Some procedural problems have arisen and these problems are attempting to solve this article. It is, on the one hand, about the fact that OFYPEKA is a universal successor to the National Environment Centre, which is transformed into OFYPEKA and, on the other hand, the second point is that certain provisions already in force to fill responsibility positions are extended to the level of the department. This is the first article. The second article concerns the protection of the Hypothet. As you know - it has been discussed in Parliament on several occasions - the new presidential decree on protection of the Hygiene is being completed. The consultation is not complete yet. It has begun, but some bodies have not responded. In any case, there are many answers that the services are working on. In order to complete and get to the presidential decree it will take some more time. In other words, it must be fully worked out, the wording of the Presidential Decree and its task in the Council of State. These will take some time. Since the suspension of construction work, which is necessary not to be created in the area, expires at the end of the month, we are giving an extension of the suspension for one year - it will not, of course, take one year - so that any possibility can be covered. We estimate that in about six months, we will have the presidential decree. That's the second one. The third article has something to do with Matty. As you know, the final stage is the preparation of the presidential decree approving the special planning plan for Matti. The consultation has been completed and will be sent to the Council of State at any time, as foreseen after the adoption. The next step following a special urban plan covering both in-project and off-project areas is in the areas where the analytic planning is being built, the implemenution plan. This has to start. As in the first case, in the case of the special town plan, with the regulation we allow the Technical Chamber of Greece to draw up the town plan. By the same procedures, the mandate expires in July 2021 and we are sure that, as in the first stage that ended within the deadlines, the specific urban plan was completed at study level, of course, as will be done this time. The last point has to do with the Energy Regulatory Authority. The article concerns the transfer from October 2020 to December 2020, ten days in December 2020, the deadline for submitting applications related to the issue of a certificate of specific projects, the modification of a production licence - is for the RES -, the extension of the limits of the polygonal installation and related things. It is necessary to shift this time period because the information system of the RAE is not yet fully operational. By December it will be operational, then these applications will be made and the necessary procedures will be available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u143	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u144	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u145	I would like to ask two questions about the amendments that the Minister has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u146	Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u147	The first relates to the Presidential Decree on Hymitus, Minister. If you remember when you passed the draft law that provided dates until August, we told you that you would not be able to do that. We're confirmed now. However, I would like to ask - because we have sent you a letter with the relevant Head of SYRIZA, Socrates Famello - whether you intend to consult the municipalities in the region, the scholars and the Ministry, as a consultation must take place, especially in a special presidential decree such as the protection of Hymett. The second question is about Matty. I would like us to know what and how many bodies have put their views in the consultation and how many citizens have been, if many gaps and failures in the first planning were taken into account, especially in relation to the coastal front, and third and most importantly what is envisaged. Will this story go much further with direct assignments and working groups at the Chamber of Technical? Because I've been president of the Technical Chamber. No government and no administration in the TEU has ever been used by a government like this. Never! Let's just say that for Eye in the first plan you wanted to do, you used the Chamber. We have all shown a tolerance, congratulate the scholars on the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Colleague, please get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u149	...but how much longer is this suitcase going? We also have public procurement law, you have competitions for studies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u150	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u151	On the subject of the High Representative's consultation, it is indeed what you have said, and we intend to do it and we are already doing it. The consultation has been started for a long time with both municipalities and with all stakeholders and citizens. I don't understand the question exactly. This is already the case, and that is why it is also necessary to extend the suspension. On the second issue concerning Eye, you quite rightly said that gaps and failures in initial planning had to be addressed. The original design was the so-called pre-approval that it took - instead of a month - a year ago the previous SYRIZA government to promote it, so that the whole design of the Eye goes back. And it's not just design. It's also what people are suffering from in the area. We have managed through the Technical Chamber, which is obviously an extraordinary process of direct delegation, within less than a year of completing the special urban plan. I would remind you that these things usually do twelve to fifteen years. We're doing the same now because it's obviously an exceptional and special case, Matty. We do not want to need a few years again for the polluting project, which, as you know, is necessary to activate certain aspects of the specific urban plan, what is in the project. So we shall proceed with the same exceptional procedure in the case of the Eye - we have not mentioned anything else - to get out of the nine months that the normal award procedure requires. Your draft law would require around nine to eleven months. So to save these 11 months, which, for the inhabitants of the region, are of enormous importance, will be able to build and settle their properties and repair and create the roads and all the infrastructure required there, which is why we are moving towards a direct assignment. As far as I understand it, however, you have no objection to this case. So I guess we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Minister. Mr Hatzigiannakis has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. To catch the last thing the Minister said in response to Mr Spirtzi's colleague. Minister, Mr Spirtz referred to consultation with the municipalities in particular, because the very last time the Himittos decree came out, almost all the municipalities with limits on the Hymettos appealed to justice and the Hymittos decree was finally annulled. It is another thing to say that we are making this consultation laid down by the law and that which is the case for real consultation with the local authorities who also have facilities - almost all municipalities have facilities - within the limits of protection. I don't know now how they're shaped to tell you the truth. In the previous decree, I had the honour of taking part as a legal officer in applications for cancellation made at the time. So we also have a special knowledge, and we think that self-government, especially the municipalities that have facilities there - obviously, it concerns them - must be given special treatment and have a sincere consultation with them. I think that there was also Mr Spirtzi's point and question. To tell you the truth today, because precisely the title of the bill which introduces two legislative acts states the support for the floods of Evia, the region in which I have the honour of being elected, I would say not to speak, because our chosen colleague, the rapporteur, Vangelis Apostolos, knows them very well and has mentioned them many times in committee, but also today in plenary. Unfortunately, however, in a question that was made yesterday by a very good journalist of "STAR" Central Greece to the Prime Minister in the press conference at the PTH, it has once again been shown that what your Government and Mr. Mitsotakis do is to do without any knowledge of the problem, without even having gone. It went two days after the floods. He made a visit to the King's Bridge, and he has no idea what the situation is today, almost forty days after the murderous floods that we have mourned the lives of eight of our fellow people. Because if he knew or had been informed by the relevant ministers... But which competent ministers? Nor have the appropriate ministers visited the floods. Again, they went to the district and consulted the relevant bodies. But if he visited the area next door, it is in the Municipality of Chalkida the wounded and in the Municipality of Dirfyon Messapion, he would find that the situation especially in the estuary of Lelada remains in a tragic state. The residents there thankfully that with their poor means and self-government, but mainly volunteers and clubs daily feed with all kinds of need, because their properties have been destroyed, they have left without homes. And we are talking forty days later about strengthening these people, which, unfortunately, even the little reinforcement of the EUR 500 and 600 which we have been asked to adopt, because the vote was supposed to have been taken by the legislative act - they have only received it. We are not even talking about the subsidies per household and per undertaking of 5,000 and 8 000, which have obviously not been received and we are not even talking about the disaster suffered by farmers, which has been destroyed by the harvest of the whole year by the one they expected to live this year. And while the Minister responsible, Mr Voridis, came a few days ago with Mr Stavoura and announced too much, I am very afraid that not only will they be too late to see them, so we do not know how producers will live in the next few months, but there is no more than 10% of what Mr Vorides has announced. So, unfortunately, we have seen the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, from the television receiver of all Greece, not even knowing where the problem is and what situation our fellow citizens in Evia are today. We are not even talking about the anti-military works to which he referred. He made reference to the flooding that needs to be done and to climate change that will worsen the conditions. It was the only thing we agreed on. In fact, climate change is present and the conditions will get worse, but Evia is impervious. Also in the announcements on the projects - although announcements were made on the road network once again - there has been no mention of the necessary flooding, while studies on the delimitation of both Lelada and the Messapius have been carried out for many years, but unfortunately they have not been carried out and have been financed for many years. I do not want to go into Evia because, unfortunately, I am afraid that the problem will not be dealt with in the next few months and we will have to come back with questions and interventions. And make a little reference to local government. To wish today for all children and all teachers and teachers and teachers to have a good year. Unfortunately, however, the year did not start properly and it did not start, while you had, gentlemen of the government, too much time to prepare yourself. Unfortunately, once again you have proved that your ultimate state is only not worthy of it. You have loaded once again the supply of the masks in the Central Association of Municipalities, which was not its responsibility, and which, of course, should not - in my own personal view, and I say it as a man of self-government, who I have been and know what problems there are - to take this load that was yours. And sadly, we've faced all these intimidations with children not having masks, but also have masks to make them really for face masks and not for protection masks. I'm afraid so. For the school cleaners mentioned before by the Minister - I told him myself in the hallway - you have unfortunately appointed part-time cleaners in many municipalities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I won't be long, Madam President. And while cleaning needs are increased - it is obvious - they do not have the same work as they usually did - every cleaner who takes over a school has to clean up the carpets, clean up toilets, clean up much more surfaces, so it has an increased job - what the State Secretary told us - and I think it was your fault - it is that they can be covered with overtime and therefore be regarded as almost full-time. But where's the trap hiding? At the expense of the municipalities. You let the municipalities, which we all know in what economic situation they are, be charged with the overtime of cleaners for conditions which they are not prepared to deal with and which do not correspond to. So help the municipalities, give them funding and load the responsibilities, because at the moment you are completely doing the opposite! For squares to correct, 2 euros the square that Mr Theodorikos and Mr Lebanon have told us is in very few municipalities. It's not two euros. In Skyros, for example, we had twenty minutes, it won't be 80 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Madam President, that is the last thing I say. And I don't really know what mind it was thinking in Part II on the extraordinary arrangements for MDG, what we are voting on today, budget reforming OTA I and Second Degrees, which I won't read all about, but it says that all budget incorporations are made by binding decision to the MDG - a recommendation from the Economic Committee. We're completely abolishing it. Only the budget was left on municipal councils and we are completely abolishing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u157	And the board's decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u159	I'm done, it's the last sentence, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u160	I 'finished' you say it for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u161	The decision of the Council and the control of decentralised bodies shall be of an accreditation nature. The legality check shall be of an accreditation nature and shall not be prevented. However, if they are cancelled, we will see who will charge the sums and how all these lots will be paid for to enter into contracts with the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u162	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I will give the floor for a minute to the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, who wants to answer the honourable Member and then Mr Stamenitis will take the floor from New Democracy and immediately after the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr Loverdos. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. I shall refer to two points. One is that you said that we need to do real consultation and not formal consultation of the law. It is the formal consultation that has been in place since the SYRIZA period. If you thought this consultation was typical and not real, you could change it. You didn't change it, so it means you don't think it's typical, but it's real. So we are having a real consultation, and obviously we are also talking to the municipalities. We know that the municipalities have dropped the previous presidential decree and we are in contact with the municipalities not now during the consultation just for a year and during the consultation. I don't know if you guys have any information from a municipality that we haven't talked to him. I'd like you to tell me. As far as I know, with all the municipalities we've been talking many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too, Minister. Now Mr Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I too would like to wish students, teachers and parents a good school year. We all know that this year is a different year. But the bet has to be won, and I'm very optimistic that we'll make it. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Health, which, in general terms, forms part of the great effort to deal with the consequences of pandemic, the shielding of public health, the protection of the economy, the regulation of a number of issues such as education and support for work. It is an effort that has so far been successful, as has been recorded in public opinion, but also in the measurements that we see come into the light of publicity. It has been demonstrated by these discussions that took place during the drafting of the bill in committee, but also today in the debate that is taking place here in plenary that this draft law - in addition to the issues it regulates - is an opportunity to discuss in overall terms the issues and data relating to the emergence of the pandemic and the spread of the disease in our country. I believe that no one doubts that Greece has taken responsibility and effectiveness in the first wave of pandemic and, obviously, that the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government are credited. And taking into account the information we have now, I believe that no one doubts that in the second wave our country is responding very positively. The three-way, "government plan - the Directives of the Special Representatives of the Citizens" has brought Greece among the best-performing countries. And because much has been said, there has been a great deal of talk in recent times about the management of the second wave of pandemic - obviously an attempt to exploit the legitimate concern of all of us - let us see what the figures say in this case: in particular, in the indicator that most accurately illustrates the treatment of pandemic by each country, the loss of life per million people, our country is now in the 111th place. Greece was in the 63rd place in the first phase. Where do you see it, then, are you SYRIZA colleagues, worsening and inefficient? Of course, you haven't told us. Ladies and gentlemen, we have known from the outset that opening up the economy after the general lockdown is a difficult equation. We all know that our country cannot be able to remain with the switches down, nor can the economy run at zero speeds until the disease is eliminated. This would have an impact on the economy and therefore on the social fabric, which would be tragic, and we all know that very well. So, in the context of this and of all the elements of the government's hands, it became the gradual opening up of the tourism with a plan, the catering shops came back, the schools opened up, and to some extent we returned to normality, but the responsibility was to operate individually and collectively differently from what we used to do so far. All the time since the health crisis took place, a titanic effort has been made by the government to replace lost soil in areas such as health and little has been done. Intensive treatment units are doubled, thousands of hospital and medical staff were recruited immediately. They were the people who worked on the front line and gave a great breath to a confessed afflicted health system. Now, in terms of reducing staff, obviously, the figures do not confirm this. Six thousand additional eight hundred recruits were made in September, the process of permanent staff of doctors will be completed, and a thousand hundred recruits of nurses were also made. There was also a great deal of work done in adapting structures and human resources to new data, such as tele-television in the field of education, and for the first time the Greek public comes to run with digital speeds. Measures have been taken to support those affected by the restrictive measures and not forget that a large operational plan has been set up to deal with the virus with innovative traceability systems. We've heard a lot from Opposition lately. We have heard a great deal at the meetings of the committee. We are, you say, working on the successful treatment of the first coronary wave. We didn't do anything about tourism. So you said at the beginning in May, in April. And after tourism was opened with a plan, you told us that we poorly opened tourism. We have heard that we need tourists, but we must not allow planes to fly in full, which companies themselves define around the world. Even today SYRIZA's rapporteur spoke of tourism fiasco. Why don't you tell the people involved in tourism, professionals, workers? And tell us what you're gonna do. There aren't any of these. Your Chief himself in May claimed that tourism had to be opened and that nothing had been done at that time. How far will that size of hypocrisy finally reach you? We have heard that we were wrong to open the schools at the beginning of the year - in May, in June - and now that we are doing so in the wrong way, and even against the two proposals in this bill. In fact, you say there was absolutely nothing going on in the field of education. Haven't you heard that three thousand four hundred forty-five teachers were recruited in special education? First time. For the first time, permanent teachers are appointed to special education. You have not heard that twenty-one more than a thousand alternates were hired - the first time so many - in the first wave. Haven't you ever heard that the first time in the last decade, permanent teachers were assigned to education? Of course you don't take a seat. What can you say when the four and a half years of SYRIZA were not appointed by an instructor? Let's not talk about your positions on the economy. I'm sorry, I didn't get it right. Does March not belong to the first quarter of 2020? Or then we didn't have the effects of the coronary, because you told us that the crisis came before the coronary. Incomprehensible things. Also, "give it all up" yell out of the first wave of pandemic. I honestly don't know where the country would be and where the markers of the economy would now be, and how despair would we see the second wave of pandemic coming if we heard Mr. Tsipras' misinterpretations? Ladies and gentlemen, as the Prime Minister has already announced, our country will not be afraid of the difficulties that have arisen in recent years. The government's political choice is to support those affected by the Krone crisis, but also at the same time to go further, boosting the economy and correcting what so far has been an obstacle to the development of the country. We have a crisis in front of us that we do not use as an alibi, but instead we face it by going ahead. That's what today's draft law does, which is a large part of the collective effort in which the only ones left out are you, gentlemen of the Opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u166	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I will start my speech by commenting and taking a stand on developments in our foreign policy and especially on relations between Greece and Turkey. We have a retraction on the part of President Erdogan no doubt. First, the front facing it is shaped: France - Greece - Egypt - the United Arab Emirates. It is a front that needs to be taken into account - and it takes account of it - when it causes hot episodes or threatens attacks. Secondly, the attitude of the United States and particularly President Trump and the unwillingness of the United States to engage in an engagement between Greece and Turkey before the elections for a new President of democracy in the United States. Thirdly, in the European Union, the total isolation of Erdogan even from countries which have held a friendly attitude toward him and who are forced to join the front, because they cannot justify his behaviour. It's not the sanctions he's afraid of. He demonstrated this in the case of the European Union's sanctions for breaking the arms embargo in Libya. Penalties don't scare him. He ignores them. It is not - from what we have seen so far - and particularly hard. Of all possible sanctions, which we have learned are threatened by Turkey, half of which were loose and a certain correlation of powers and the need for unanimity, it seems reasonable not to be afraid of sanctions. But this is one thing that is isolated in the European Union and from countries which, I repeat, have held a more friendly attitude toward it. These are the reasons that lead him to fold. Ladies and gentlemen, about fifteen days ago, when his aggressive political speech against our country was culminating, I have been asked for my opinion several times from the media. In expressing the positions of the Change Movement, I said that what he says is probably leading to folding, increases the aggression of speech to cover his folding. Apparently these are estimates. It's not certain. But when you take the responsibility of an assessment, you're at risk and you're exposed. I thought and consider this to be a dominant view of the Turkish President's behaviour. We now go to the result and assessment of the result. Is it a victory for Greece and Turkey's defeat? What is it? I do not believe that it is a victory for the country, because unfortunately in the forty days that the convoy of Turkish ships was going up to the Southeast Mediterranean in the field of our sovereign rights - not our sovereignty, I repeat, our sovereign rights - Turkey has "him" a region. "March", said former Prime Minister's National Security Counsellor, a region in the field of our sovereign rights. Forty days the convoy sailed in this space. Because it doesn't wash the forty-fourth one, doesn't mean we're erasing forty. There has been a violation of our sovereign rights. His folding, however, leads to the appreciation of a tie between forces and political tactics and not a victory between one and the other. The story with Turkey is not over with the Erdogan folding. It'll last. However, President Erdogan does not count against his efforts towards the country in recent developments. I remember in a committee for armaments, in which I replaced Mr Kegeroglu, to decide together the need to equip a country. As my colleague rightly said in his speech a moment ago, I cannot underline the positive fact that Greece has been equipped because it has not been equipped. The time elapsed between the announcement of a piece of equipment and the equipment of the country is very long. As Mr Kegeroglu said earlier, not everything is explained by bureaucracy, there are also policies on bureaucracy which are not transparent and which lead to delays. In any case, either way, the country must be equipped. I remind you of my position and Mr Katrin's position in December 2019 in the budget vote. We both noted the reduction of the allocation for the equipment projects that led to the non-voting of the budget of the Ministry of National Defence in December 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Katrugalos will remember that very well, Mr. Kotzias too, Mr. Dendias likewise. At meetings of the National Foreign Policy Council, I have always stressed that when Greece says that it is not tolerated and will counter any attempt to violate its sovereign rights, it means so. I was saying that after we mean it, we have to look at the equipment programs again, leaving the inertia that led us to the crisis, when the money was no longer there, when corruption had depreciated the political reason related to the country's need for equipment. I cannot make any mention - and other colleagues have done so, so as a parliamentary representative, it belongs to my duties - in Moria. Behind COVID -19, behind Greek-Turkish, the government was hidden, as if the problem of refugees and migrants were lost in the conditions they live, in the need to divide the issue with the other European countries, the unaccompanied children, in any case that our country has. By hiding the problem, not mentioning it, the Government did not mention its positive actions in this respect, so that the events in Moria would also expose the government and the country. We do not have enough of the words of sympathy for the Vice-President of the European Commission, Marguerite ropes. We have heard many words of sympathy both in Greek-Turkish and in immigration-refugee. That's enough! We want actions and so far we have not seen such actions, nor has the government responded. Firstly, he was electorally telling us that it is a matter that will be resolved in a few weeks' time. He failed. And secondly, he abolished and re-established the Ministry of Migration, which we will not forget and will mention at every location. Many colleagues referred to the masks. I do not like to talk about masks and masks, but I have to say that on 7 August the twenty masks were sold at supermarkets EUR 9,90, in the last 10 days of August they went to 12,90 and now they are at EUR 10,99, EUR 1 above the price of early August and EUR 1 below the eruption they had at the end of August 2020. Don't we have a government? Don't we have an observation? What do we got? What's this? Indeed, for a product that has been strengthened. I'm pointing it out. As I also convey today's experience that in schools and Mrs Gennimata and Mr Kegeroglou - those colleagues who criticised the masks, let's also record this in their data - the supplier or suppliers - I do not know - have provided a mask size, so that primary children, young children, wear full face masks and have to do holes! Good coordination is shown in detail, as is bad coordination and bad preparation again in detail. We have said this personally since the end of April, and I say this today - that the new phase that the country and Europe and the planet have been going through in relation to COVID -19 is the phase that we are trying to avoid lockdowns and in their place to develop two factors for dealing with the pandemic: good equipment for the National Health System and, secondly, individual responsibility. Scan the first and highlight on the main issue of Greece the lack of individual responsibility. This is a mistake and an insult to the Greek citizen. And why am I saying that? I say this because you have not demonstrated excellent preparation, as the conditions require, for this second wave. I don't want to be vague, I want to be general. I don't have time. I note that I have constantly mentioned the need to train or train staff in intensive care units. It's not enough to have it, they must know this very difficult job to do. I'm going further. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am telling you, Mr. Secretary, that the National Center for Hepatitism has been donating until recently five to six thousand tests a day, and now because of the lack of reactors it makes four hundred. It's a clue. If you can, you can question it. I take it from the health field, I testify, and I'd be happy to be wrong. Secondly, many hospitals, as I am told, do not have molecular analysts, send samples to Pasteur, which is closed or in private centers. With this kind of control, especially through Pasteur, I am told that the result is two to four days later to the recipient. These two to four days throughout the tourist season, the man who had performed the test and asked to check if he is positive, is also a disperser. AHEPA learns that he's only doing his own checks anymore. He doesn't do any checks on others. Also, health centers on the islands, like the Paxes, are not only that they cannot perform tests, but they do not receive samples. In Halkidiki, I'm telling you this is happening. If that is true - I would not like it to be - the adequacy of the National Health System in preparation is not what the country needs. We take note of it, we record it. If that is true, you have several times, when you speak in public - I am not talking about you personally, I have not listened to you, but if the government, the Minister, other officials, are giving a public speech - it is unjustified. It's not a simple matter. It's a matter that will torture us. Because we are still about in the summer and because the difficulties are ahead, if there is time, as long as there is, get better prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Papadopoulos has the floor now from SYRIZA. Immediately after that I will give the floor to Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u169	We are all judged for our response to unprecedented and unprecedented complex tasks. The government is judged on its reflexes, on the effectiveness of the solutions it provides to explosive issues that it manages, pandemics, nightmares, tourism, recession, unemployment, poverty, safe opening up schools and, at the same time, Turkish aggression, armaments, humanitarian tragedy in Moria and the explosiveity of the dimensions of the refugee - immigration problem. All this for us, in opposition, means at the same time the way in which we represent and document concrete solutions that need to be followed. We have also done so with the "We stay upright" and with the armour of the National Health System by means of a holistic intervention, which includes the role of the primary health system, the support of health workers, the possibility of providing stimulus and, of course, the safe opening of schools, which involves a lot of issues that we have raised and regrettably see that they have not been followed. We wish, however, to the pupils and their families the opportunity to experience a secure opening-up of schools, which we need. The urgent governmental arrangements included in the two PIPs to address the emergency needs of the ESS do not correspond to awareness of the risks from upward increase in cases, from a large increase in intubated patients. Watch out: Fifty-four yesterday, eight was July. Furthermore, we have before us all those issues which will also happen with the viruses that are expected, of course, with the regular tasks that all the operating structures of the National Health System have. We have to tell you that you knew the need for diagnostic checks at all the gates of entry into the country, in the congested and overtransmission areas. However, instead of having enough diagnostic tests on all the structures of the National Health System in time, you allowed reagents to be missing in the CSR, several hospitals do not have the molecular analysts that would make it easier. Of course, we should point out that diagnostic tests should be carried out on all teachers, on all health workers, on all those who work in case over-transmission structures, and these should be carried out at the same time as the EGE, public laboratories and not private centres that over-exploit the need for controls. Secondly, you were aware of the need to shield the National Health System and, of course, the need for the country to be a safe tourist destination. You didn't. In Article 8 of the first MDG, you prolong the use of private doctors in public hospitals to meet pandemic needs either at regular hours or in newspapers. However, the structures of the National Health System - hospitals, health centers, regional hospitals, TOMY, intensive care units - require significant support from permanent human resources. The day before yesterday, Kyriakos Mitsotakis as Prime Minister announced four thousand permanent recruitments to the ESS. Now he's awake? New Democracy has now realised the need for permanent staffing of the National Health System and announces that by the end of December we will have a thousand two hundred IF beds available. With what human potential? Even if he does now - which he must do now - the contest for the recruitment he announces, as we have lost valuable time and have ignored the proposals made by SYRIZA for two and a half thousand annual intakes over time, will all this help to what you say that the National Health System today is better off than dealing with the first phase of the pandemic? It's not like that. I wish it were! However, the issue for us again is to point out to you positively, constructively, documented, the holistic development plan of the National Health System, which must of course also be the clear stimulus to staff for both barren areas and other possibilities, as there are financial possibilities both from national resources and from European resources from the Recovery Fund. What exactly does your ESS plan include in the Recovery Fund? Does the notorious Pissaridis text and the neoliberal proposals he makes? Third theme: You knew the importance of cleanliness to prevent dispersal and yet the hires of cleaning staff for schools are much less than they need. Fourth question: in the intergroup committee of Parliament's medicine, which was set up in the previous period, we had discussed with all interested parties - patients' associations, universities, pharmaceuticals, pharmaceuticals, all concerned - the development of a long-term national pharmaceutical policy, including a reduction in clawback in the national pharmaceutical industry and, of course, in laboratory doctors. And yet, you didn't do all of this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That's what I'm closing down with, dear President. At least, do you take into account all the issues identified, in order not to cancel measures to promote cheap drugs, innovatives, generics and the commitment to increase the pharmaceutical expenditure of the EEAS? In conclusion, we do not ignore the fact that there are also some positive measures to be taken in the two MDGs. For example, I draw attention to the regulation on antibiotics. But they do not change the picture that the interventions you make do not correspond to the complex tasks of a difficult period that we are going through, and that is why we are voting against your current bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u171	'Since being complied with', he says, 'the sanitary protocol'. Minister, it's a good protocol to the House. It's kind of like that at the factories. That's what it's like in public services. It's like this where they work, for example, in Janitsa, with a hundred and ninety cases. The masks and protocol are fine here. And these buses don't happen? And you come with a style of eight hundred cardinals to say that 'all we've done well'. "Greece of confidence" is the new slogan of the government. Really, where do you live? Virtual reality? People are worried, people are nervous, they're scared, they don't know what's going to dawn, and you're talking about self-confidence? You're right! You mean self-esteem of big sharks and big business. For them, indeed, there is confidence in the coarseness you give from the various packages and from the sweat of the workers. And because you say that we need to build this Greece, there is a need for national entrepreneurialism, that is, all together, and those who possess the infamous wealth and those who grow and cannot survive when they produce all this wealth. What do you want in the end? Admittedly accept the abolition of the latest rights left to them? What do you want? Pay again - they pay - workers the health crisis, as did the financial crisis? Tell us here, bring us information about what the business groups paid, what you did at this time to those who were afraid of paying too. Couldn't you increase taxation to certain sectors that have been "insane" in profits this time? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So what do you want? You're saying if you get quarantine and leave work when you get back, you work overtime and don't get paid. Really? Where did you find this written? It's the worker's fault he won't go to work, and why would he work any longer and he won't be paid? What kind of measure is that? Isn't it inhuman? Aren't we going back eight hundred years? Others have also taken care of you, of course, to reduce overtime. What do you want? Admittedly accepting - undisputedly - the all-powerfulness of the employer, which you give them, axes and knife so that they can cut off all the rights they exist, do suspension of work, force them to telework, and if they do not accept, do not get paid? Are these the charitable measures Mr. Brutsi was saying here? What do you want? To live with 500 euros of those who are not in work because of coronary, etc.Huh? And you want them to accept it? What are you asking them for? Accept the towel of the Christmas gift? And you're saying on top you're protecting the workers? You are protecting employers, and even energy. That's what this tough, barbaric class policy does. What are you after all asking the hotel officials who didn't work at all? And you present it - and that's disgrace! - it's a charity measure. We're reducing, he says, the hundred-dimensionalities you had to do, the fifty. And the one who didn't work at all? Why did all the hotel staff work? Mr Katsotis, you're in the industry. I am referring to Christos Katsotis, our rapporteur. The thousands, the tens of thousands that didn't work at all at this time, how will they live truth with what? And you come and you make announcements, like you're pulling them out of your pocket or from the businesspeople's pocket. I could mention more questions and more questions, but there is also a basic question, beyond the rest. Why have you sacrificed health and life, we would say, of the workers by opening up tourism, without effective protection measures? Who's to blame for that? Who is responsible for the new outbreak of the coronary and for deaths and for too many sick people? Why did you open up without ensuring that there are mandatory tests in either their country or here for tourism? And don't tell us that's not the problem. That's the problem, you know, but why did you do it? Because the big-time owners were asking you to do so, because the shipowners - poor ones, too, have been bankrupt over the past few years! - because you were asked by the others who work in transport. That's too bad! Two billion had declared a specific company in Greece in the previous years. Let him lose a year, it wouldn't get hurt. 'They dug out' from the profits in the previous period, and that's exactly what you did. You have opened without substantial measures to satisfy these profits, not to mention other areas. What do you really answer today? What do you answer to the hundred and ninety - one worker at the Yanicha factory? And I'm saying an extreme example. What do you answer to the nursing homes where people die? Why wasn't there a measure taken? No one's fault in this place? Why didn't you have to carry out a mandatory test? Why don't you have any money? Thousands of you score from here to the big business. What will you answer the relatives and victims of this policy that you have pursued for lack of controls? Let's all go together. To accept the sailor - listen, listen! - the penny, because the shipowners are bankrupt! What can I tell you? They're in Omonia and they're begging! The first country in a merchant fleet in the world. The cuts in the podiums and the cut-off negotiations have already begun and you are cutting here as well. To whom, to whom truth? The first power in a merchant fleet in the world? In the unbelievable, inconceivable wealth - for human minds - which each one of them has? Well, what are the policies? And now you ask the worker, the seafarer, who works eighteen hours a day and twenty-four hours in the foothills, to reduce his earnings. Why? To make fifteen helicopters each? So the government says that he did everything, that he faced and successfully dealt with the pandemic. In the first agreement, you've done everything. You did everything. Now the thing is who you've done everything. And this isn't how it's gonna pass. You have taken advantage of the pandemic to go through anti-corruption measures, and today you are doing - and no more permanent - calling for big capital, BSE and that would be difficult under normal circumstances. You have used consciously, literally, the discipline and tolerance shown by workers. You have used the pretext of preparing for the pandemic recession, not to prepare the country for the possibility of dealing with the new wave - and that seems today that the schools are opening - but to pass a pile of anti-grass bills. We had a bill industry in the House, one after the other. The whole society has paralyzed and the anti-grass bills fell here. Everything in the service of the great business interests. It is no wonder, of course, that there is no humanity. In the sense of 'human', everyone can be, but the policy of serving the capitalist system does not have humanity. It has blood, it has war, it has profit, it has misfortune, it has unemployment, what the whole of mankind lives. But don't be delusional. It will return to the claim that 'we did everything well' and that 'there was nothing else'. Because what you say here is broken down daily in the workplace, in the poverty and the uncertainty that you are condemning part of the population. And the new wave of pandemic - we'll say it openly - bear your signature. It wasn't objective when you had such a recession, and it didn't come as a scourge of the god they were saying about Attila, by the way. The argument about the practicable policy that you are saying is to be found in the limits of inhumanity. You have no money for rooms, while there are hundreds of buildings all over Greece and public buildings. You have no money for teachers. You have no money for doctors. But for business groups billions. And the European packages for which all of you and SYRIZA and the Change Movement are cut, where do they go to their vast majority? They go to the big business. Of course, authoritarianism will not interfere with the struggles. The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has shown in a dramatic, clear way the inhumanity of the system. Your infamous myths, still cultivating them, for the European and American systems that are mainly based on the private sector and which you want to create and advertise, so these myths were buried together with hundreds of thousands of people who paid for this policy with their lives and no one should forget what its fate can be. On the stadiums they accumulated the coffins of the elderly, in Italy, Britain, the United States of America. Everywhere the place was filled with dead people who paid this system. And this is the opponent! And I am addressing the Greek Solution, which has caught the cresent now. Golden Dawn is gone and her ideas are coming here. It's the refugees' fault. Who's to blame? Is it the refugees? Not that all refugees and immigrants are saints. There is also what exists in capitalist society. What's to blame is the capitalist system. That creates wars. That creates refugees. This creates poverty. This creates misery. As for Moria: Get together just before you know who burned it or, rather, who burned it. Yes, in that it was also a group of refugees, for the rest you wait for the findings. Did you find any voters of yours there in the next findings? So, gather around with this crescendo to take advantage of the world that's in a dead end and go through racist perceptions, talk about dryness and doesn't get together. You go live there in the camps.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u172	I'm legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u173	The response of our people - and I am ending, Madam President - to the call from all of us to overcome the crisis can and must be - in the view of the JRC - all together, workers, workers, self-employed, poor farmers, young and young women in a social alliance against the system, extract conquests and set a path to overthrow. Why is the modern dilemma anyway, whatever you say, subjecting to capitalist barbarism or overthrowing it for a new human society? The people will answer the second one sooner or later. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I shall now give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukoro, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u175	Madam President, I would just like to ask you for my prototype - and I shall then come back - because I hear from many colleagues, from various opposition parties talking about the second wave of pandemic and government policies. Of course, all views are respected. You know, even extreme viewpoints, against the mask, all of this can be discussed because no one holds the one and the only truth. But I've heard from this morning an endless bankruptology. However, bodies in Greece do not exist from the coronary. Ladies and gentlemen, because all measures aim to protect human life - I think we can all agree - I want to remind you that the victims of the pandemic in Greece are thirty per million. This number, which is the most critical, brings our country into the hundredth place worldwide, which I think is a good performance, which means that measures in the first part of the pandemic, but also in the second wave of pandemic, in terms of protecting human life, pay off. To discuss whether there are a lot of tests, whether there is a lot of cases, whether the economy should be opened up or seven months closed, I once again told you that all views are respected and can be discussed both within the House and in the media, in society and in the cafes and everywhere. For me, at least, they are all respecters, but the numbers. When we talk about numbers of such critical parameters, like the victims of a pandemic, they tell the truth, ladies and gentlemen, as well as we do. And personally, if you want, I do not think it was better to deal with the first wave of pandemic and worse to deal with in the second, it is two different cases. We are talking about dealing with the dispersion with the economy completely closed, and we are talking about dealing with the dispersion with the economy openly. I told you, above all, that human life is, and that is how fortunately the country is, it is doing very well. It's better than a hundred ten countries on the planet. These are international elements, they are not elements of the government. I would like all of us to have this in mind, because I do not want to in any way think that there are people in Greece who wish patients and bodies to become victims to take their own flesh and bones. I don't really believe that. I shall return to the other issues, Madam President, in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u176	...for the death of the forty-nine-year-old? What indicator is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u177	The index of all people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u178	Thank you. Mr Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA and immediately thereafter the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law presupposes unprecedented legislation relating to the working framework, but also exceptional procedures in the direction of opacity to assignments and recruitment in critical areas. Our differing views, our political differences, and they are reflected in positions in a very clear way. Our ideological difference is known. We are fighting for a society that will not exploit human beings, which is why we are in society, within the workers, within small and medium-sized enterprises. You do not just want to take advantage of man, but his life, his children's lives, his parents' living conditions, his free time, everything, and that is why you are abolishing even the wages of workers with overtime, as well as all the other unprecedented things we read about European labour culture. That's why you didn't go to Lesvos in close proximity, within refugees the eyees of children sleeping in the streets for so many days, not even how many people, children, women, old people, garbage, food, impurities, is one thing in the street of Lesvos. Your executives see them from the helicopter, not only in Lesvos but in general. Of course, you do not see either the deadlock of our fellow citizens, the inhabitants of the islands of the northern Aegean and especially of Lesvos, and the ones from the helicopter. Do you hear what Commissioner Johanson says? It says that a year and a half now you have not asked for refugees to be transferred to all European countries. You don't hear that either. But I would ask you to consider, not in our logic, but in our logic, that when a country, a country, faces three major crises at the same time, and you say that in order to deal with all this - you say to all tons - you must be united to deal with them, you are not entitled, you cannot, gentlemen of the New Democracy, at the same time push the majority of the Greek people into the margin and poverty, institutionalise the abolition of the main points of the working framework and, at the same time, continue the same policy that you have started from the first day, a final party, the Mitsotakis government that has already failed. Chaos test, pandemic chaos, tourism chaos, school chaos. You celebrate we don't have cleaners. You celebrate the masks you delivered last day, delayed school start, 1/3 of masks, and mistake! Chaos in public administration. Chaos in the transports. Chaos in local self-government, refugees, absolute desolation of development actions, continuation of the doctrine of 'terror and combating'. We're still waiting for the reports to see when they're coming. A dramatic increase in unemployment. Thousands of businesses are closing down. All parties to protest and the government unbelievable continues its main choices. Ladies and gentlemen, you are prolonging the predictions, unlike European legislation, on the subject of coronary procurement, but in all these months you have heard nothing. You don't know that the Big Walk fiasco was carried out by coronary procedures. You haven't heard anything. You do not know the fiasco of the development companies we told you about in the first law, what damage you do to the 'LEADER' that you did to development agencies. You haven't heard of that either. You do not know the distortions that have emerged throughout the range of public contracts and procurement with coronary alibi. You know them and a few days ago you declared the decision of the Ministerial Council, that you will abolish the so-called provisions on recruitment and public sector forecasts in the change of the law of the AACC. Today, listen to what you are voting on after the decision on the Ministerial Council, after what you are lying to the Greek people. In the first MDG, in Article 6, an extension with exceptional procedures, sixty people. In Article 7, by way of derogation - and this is a great deal of fun - it is not enough that you have put everyone outside the IACC and all the others, but you see that these people can respond to the duty hours and, if they want to do so out of time, do a private job. Rusfetti on the rushphetti. Article 10th by way of derogation, extension of IORP contracts to the hosting structures of migrants. In the other MDG, the second is the proof of the lies you have been telling. It's for the OSCE, the OSH, the OSH, the STAS. When we went to do shorter procedures for what you were saying about urban transport in Thessaloniki, Mr Karamanlis reported to us here. He said we were doing an orgy because we put 15 days with an ASP, with a committee of three judges, which would see the conversion of contracts into an indefinite period of time. And you're abolishing this, and you're making a decision from the board of directors of the agency. And so that we don't forget a minister's pool for OSH recruitment, as long as he hadn't been privatized. I'll testify. [[At this point the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. In Article 3, the same applies to the OSCE. The sixth article gives more powers to the economic committees of the municipalities outside the European framework. For God's sake, such dogmatism. You condemned the Left for dogmatism once. Such dogmatism? With a mayor, haven't you spoken to? One. So for the eyes of the world. Article 10. This is great. In addition, ninety-two non-ACP recruitments for the General Secretariat of Civil Protection due to COVID -19. Mercy. Mr. Chardale, mercy. Article 31: fixedterm private contracts with which staff have been hired to the Ministry of Health. In the EEA, three positions on the Special Council of Associates to meet the needs of the Vice-President. Here you have put a bet on the poster being more than the employees. There's nothing you're doing anywhere on this planet. We have heard in the past anthems of some categories of government workers. We're asking you what you've predicted about the man who collects the trash, who you saw again at the pandemic stage, about the professional who closed his shop, about the fireman who's on the front line of the battle. The ones who erased the fire in Moria, did anyone go from the government to see them? For the cop who fights crime, not for the one covered and trampling the civilians. What test have you anticipated for all of them? What benefits? What predictions have you received? None, it's the answer. Because they do not belong, gentlemen of the government, to the ultimate state of New Democracy. They became invisible to you again, and you will soon become invisible to those who have deceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Health, Mr Kikilias, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u181	I would like a minute, Madam President. I will not delay my colleagues. I'm going to testify the legislative improvements. We accept ministerial amendments Nos 454, 455, 456, 457, 458, 459 and 461. As regards Amendment No 458 by the Ministry of Health, it concerns the mechanism for monitoring the stocks of PPE and personal protective equipment. A provision is made so that if the proportion of personal protective equipment available in our warehouses and logistics based on the health service contests falls under a certain number of safety points, we can go through IFET SA to tender on the basis of public health and security, so that we have sufficient personal protection for the critical months of the coronary. As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned, the Ministry of Health accepted the parliamentary amendment number 452 tabled by Mr Athanasios. It also takes into account the parliamentary amendment tabled by Mrs Vetta with the Minister, Mr Blonde, concerning the extension of a time limit for the maintenance of a genital material. There are two small details that we want to regulate. The law we will bring in the next few days, Minister, which has to do with ratification of the contract with Onasio, will also bring this amendment to the two small footnotes so that we can pass on it. Thank you for the initiative. What it has to do with our own legislative and contents, on number 3, by mistake, was the date of the SOS up to 31-6-2021. The extension of contracts is extended until 31/12-2021. In Nos 4 and 5, we state that clawback in this regulation relates to extra-university expenditure and is calculated from 1-7-2020 instead of 1-1-2020. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA Mr. Xanthos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. We are approaching the end of the debate. I consider it necessary to make a reference to the Prime Minister's earlier statements in Thessaloniki. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the way the Prime Minister has placed himself on the overall picture of pandemic in our country is absolutely problematic. We're in a very marginal phase. Everyone says so. It is said by scientists who at every opportunity express concern about the risk of exponential increase in cases. We have double cases on a daily basis from the first period of pandemic where we drove to lockdown. We have six-folding or seven-folding of the intersected during this period compared with the early summer phase. We have as a country from the very good position we have, indeed, been in the first period in the number of cases per million population, per 100 000 and in the number of deaths compared with the countries of the European Union. Don't do this alchemy of numbers here. The relationships with the ninety-four countries of the world are very convenient. With the countries of Europe we compare, my dear Minister, and it is absolutely problematic that you try to underestimate this. Of course, we all know that two thirds of the confirmed cases in the country have occurred in the last one and a half months. The trend is therefore particularly worrying. You can't put it all from the beginning of the pandemic to beautify the image. So getting the Prime Minister out at this stage and saying "we go better than the first wave" in my view is a very clear risk devaluation and it is a wrong signal. It's the wrong signal. Clearly there is a distortion of reality. Because, therefore, it turns out that management has a problem, because we have not been safe, as was the political objective - 'we are staying safe' - it was the slogan and we have not been safe - and now, in a measurable way in the health, economy, employment, income, tourism and everywhere, there is a negative impact, the new account is now beginning that we are building Greece of self-confidence. Greece has finished our security, what is the dominant social climate today - the insecurity of people and their uncertainty for tomorrow is the dominant climate, and this must be answered by the government responsible - and we are now starting to deal with Greece of self-confidence. And, of course, things have been said extremely challenging. One was for the obsolete arrangements of the previous century. We understood this from the bill you brought and legislated now, that is, you will legislate, you will vote on it. In a climate of serious isolation policy, you have heard against all the forces of counter-population. You are therefore making the introduction of this possibility of overtime, unpaid, is assumed in the context of offsetting, with the compulsory quarantine of some workers. The second is that the Prime Minister, in the context of the reforms he announced, said we would do a great deal of incision in primary care, with chronic diseases and daily care units for small surgery and treatments. Dear Ministers, that is, if anything, a place of ignorance. Chronic illness units are postnatal care and daily hospitalization is related to better management of hospital work. They have nothing to do with primary care. The primary care has at its core the family doctor, has the interbranch, interdisciplinary health team involved in the community, has at its core the decentralised structures where people can have easy access to home and work, monitor systematically, have the patient's individual health file, have health care, home care and school health activities, which are very topical today. This is the core of primary care, not what the Prime Minister said. A little better preparation of the Prime Minister's speeches I think it is necessary. So there is neither a success story, and unfortunately there is neither a plan. We need an emergency plan in front of this real difficulty that I tried to outline, which will firstly include upgraded and decentralised locally epidemiological surveillance. There must be a decentralisation of the case monitoring mechanism and the necessary targeted interventions at local level. Not all of this can be decided at a central level, and indeed in a non-transparent manner, often without information, even to the members of the committee on the actual epidemiological data. And, of course, they cannot be decided on television. Consultation, information for local societies, meetings with stakeholders, with self-government, professionals, actual and documented risk assessment to convince local communities and to reach consensus on the necessary measures. Otherwise the critical success of public health policies, which are social and political consensus, is being sedated. The second is, of course, the timely preparation of the system for increased diagnostic requirements in the next period. We're getting into a school season. There will be viruses. Every feisty case of student or teacher, you understand very well that it should be excluded at this stage or that it probably has COVID. That means increased requirements. The increased demand for diagnostic checks cannot be passed on as a cost to the citizen's pocket, which is happening today at an increasing rate. You have not answered us yet, Minister, how many of these thirteen thousand tests, which you say are being carried out by the state, and how much people pay in their pockets. Upgrade the capacity of public laboratories. Development of the country's research centres, which, with the so-called flagship initiative, did not go into a specific context in March. All these productive facilities for laboratory testing must be put in place in our country's public system. And, of course, compensation from the EEA of the tests that are necessarily paid by citizens, not in the context of a demand challenger, but because the state requires them to return to their jobs, having a negative result. It is not possible to continue this transfusion and the financial burden on citizens' pockets in a pandemic period. And of course, you will cancel this shameful contract of hospitals in the first health district with a particular private diagnostic center. We've been telling you all along. There is no answer and this is how the need for transparent management is affected and the validity of the Scientific Committee is affected when its members appear to be involved in such a transaction. Preparing the health system: Here the preparation, which in fact means investing in additional resources, human and material, has not been. You hired contractors at this time. It was absolutely necessary for you to do it, and you did it well. But if this is not accompanied by a plan of permanent recruitment, it will stay in the air. It is not possible in a pandemic period that the Prime Minister at the IOC will have a five-year recruitment plan for the Armed Forces and will not have a corresponding recruitment plan for the National Health System. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You cannot let it be suspended that nurses who are currently selected as contract staff, subsidiary staff, to meet the immediate and urgent needs of the ERC will probably simulate all the other thousands of contractors present in the health system with multiple employment relationships, stay in the air. We therefore need a multi-annual plan which will give at least four years in depth, in our assessment of at least equal to that announced for the Armed Forces, of fifteen thousand workers, doctors, nurses, other health professionals, other personnel, which will be designed, by structure and specialty, to enable today's contractors, with pre-service bonuses to claim a permanent job in the health system. We also urge you to legislate something very simple, which we can of course do now after 2019 that we have achieved one-off departures to the public service, to legislate that, for every post evacuated into the health system, either because of retirement or because of any withdrawal of any type, whether it concerns doctors or other staff, it is automatically reopened, without any act of Ministerial Council, without pre-authorisation by the Finance Ministries, without any other procedure. In other words, the Ministry of Health will be authorized to renew these positions by the Ministry of Health and Hospital Administrations. This will really be an intervention that will give a safety signal to the staffing of the health system and we will not have the anxiety that we will always have this marginal netting of recruitment. Of course, we urge you to legislate to protect vulnerable and vulnerable groups, not just those in closed structures. There has been terrible frustration and we are paying it dramatically at this time. We told you from the beginning, the refugee camps, the Roma camps, the nursing homes, the welfare institutions, the psychiatric structures, the prisons were high risk of overtransmission and uncontrolled dispersion. You underestimated it. And now it takes more structured intervention in this, and there are certainly, and this is also the international trend from literature, interest and concern are for sensitive groups of chronic patients, particularly vascular patients, particularly hypertensive, cardiovascular, diabetic, obese, who are proven and documented, that they have an increased chance of getting diffuse transvascular coagulation, making serious illness from COVID and requiring intubation and many of them to end up. Aim, therefore, also at primary level for the good regulation of these people. Post COVID physicians, following the patient's follow-up therapy. The debate has changed internationally. You're still in the first phase data, and you're only talking about the ITH data. The debate is how to strengthen primary care, home-based monitoring of sufferers, special groups of the population. That's where the game is played to avoid having avoidable deaths, to have a lesser chance that some people will get serious, intubate and enter IF. So I think it takes a lot of discussion from now on. I shall close with that, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. I am opposed to all these extreme populism because we have proved throughout this period that we are dealing with wisdom, seriousness, documentation, responsibility and, of course, with a positive contribution rather than an investment in failure and destruction. The president of SYRIZA will be going to the ICU tomorrow and we will present an alternative plan. We will not only criticise the government. We will present an alternative outlet from the crisis. SYRIZA will also play the role of protecting society which is affected, the world of work, the small and medium-sized enterprises, the unemployed, the marginalized people, but at the same time it will also act as a siege ram to press for greater investment in the public health system, for greater investment in the public education system, for greater investment in the social state. These are the needs of the time of the crisis, that is what society needs: security, planning and perspective, and not a fineness of the situation that is clearly insulting the public as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Burnus has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Madam President. No doubt we had not had that you would make this judgment an opportunity to implement your own memorandum in the country. We warned the Greek people what the true face of the macho-right is. Without a Memorandum and with 37 billion in public funds you brought the recession before the pandemic and now bring your own Pissaridis Memorandum that gathers and restores all the reforms it wanted, but it was unable to pass the IMF thanks to the resistance of our government. Set up the unpaid hired job, leave workers completely uncovered by teleworking, reduce the Christmas gift for those on job suspension and then complete elastication of time and place of work and the total release of redundancies. Instead of incentivising full-time jobs, instead of encouraging businesses to invest in quality and well-paid jobs, you are favouring the entrepreneurship of the working globe. Labour practices that Labour Law considered to be infringible become legal and are also being promoted as reform. And if it were given that your vengeance towards wage earners was given, we even wonder with your indifference to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. How do you think you are helping with the returnable advances and how many small and medium-sized enterprises have benefited from the liquidity instruments? Because banks have taken liquidity, but they keep it for themselves and their friends and friends. Two-thirds of entrepreneurs say they are at risk of closure, the climate has collapsed, and we are only at the beginning of what is coming. You have, of course, warned that all these small and medium-sized enterprises that are now considered as zombies and you intend to promote a comprehensive liquidation of the economy by zombies for the benefit of banks and business groups. But be careful, don't turn around and bite your zombies. And one area expected to be massive bankruptcys is focusing and tourism. Why did you think of yourself as a puppet that you could take advantage of the low number of cases in the spring to sell a tourist open without any controls, serving the tourist colossals of Northern Europe who were dictating to the Prime Minister and Minister of Tourism what to do. The result was to introduce the virus into the country, with a new even greater outbreak of cases, and to close the season prematurely with humiliating instructions from foreign governments for quarantine to those returning from Greek islands. Unfortunately, for your ideas, the appropriate solution required state subsidies, financing domestic tourism, serious control of incoming mass tests and strengthening those of tourism businessmen will be closed and those of thousands of workers who would be unemployed. Things that cause you allergy, that is. We are not surprised by your failure in the economic and health crisis, because we know that you are not ruling, but you are making communication, you are not working, but you are "driving" with interests, journalists and publishers when you are not apologizing to them. And if there's one area that collapsed and you're on the canvass, just because of your ideas, your unwelcomeness and your inability is migration and the refugee crisis. You refused to make decongestion, as we did, so that it did not disturb the extreme right-wing parties in Greece, which you made self-government factors. The price of the demagogy, the beans and your cowardice paid for it by our Lesvos. You quadrupled Moria's population in six months pretending that the problem was not there. Even now that he has broken into your hands, especially in the heads of the people of Moria, as well as the refugees and immigrants, you are being mocked. Six days have passed since the destruction of the CYT and we still have thirteen thousand people on the streets and daily clashes with the MATs at the northern entrance of the city of Mytilini. You have never sent the guilds you promised, while the passenger ship that would house a thousand three hundred vulnerable remains tied up ninety kilometers from Mytilini, in the port of Sigrio. You guys have your hawa. Alone cares, build a closed superstructure for tens of thousands. And your only weapon to achieve it is to sow, as you attempt, the division between my fellow citizens. You've only done two thousand tests in six months in Moria, when you get the population to twenty-one thousand. From the day before you test the only five hundred you've put on tents, fourteen cases have already been found, added to the previous thirty-five missing and you can't track down for six days. You have also accepted with official confirmation from the European Commissioner Johanson that what your far-right friends call a 'European shield', that is to say to make our islands prisons for refugees. Fourteen months, as Mrs Johanson said - and you have not disproved it - you have not asked for any relocation of refugees to the other European states, not even now that Moria has been burnt. To be friendly with you on the back right-wing Kurts of Austria and Orban of Hungary, you decided to make Lesvos a vast detention and turn us into prisoners. Even yesterday, when seventy-seven MEPs from six groups, including Members of the European People's Party, signed a resolution on evacuation of Moria to the countries of Europe, your own MEPs, unfortunately along with the Change Movement and with the Communist Party, did not sign up to what emerged through the painful work of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. That's who you are. You campaigned for yourself and your self-government and the residents of Moria that - supposedly - you would close the CYT and empty the island, while eventually planning to make them live next to closed structures, giant prisons that would be boiled in hatching up the uprising and destruction. You're such political crooks! From the capitals of the Macedonian to the - supposedly - growth of 4% and the investments that you would bring from many, new, good jobs to - supposedly - mass returns of migrants we have reached the beauties of Moria. But, gentlemen of the government, now, lies are over. Your curse has already started on the streets of Kara Tepee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Spankis had the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today and we are calling on to vote on the draft law which ratified two legislative acts from 10 August and 22 August, and other important provisions are introduced which we quickly, effectively, regulate a number of issues raised by the health crisis. The Government of Mr Mitsotakis, always consistent, especially when it comes to social issues that must be dealt with directly, proceeded with tabling this bill which we should all support. All fellow Members should vote in favour of today's provisions on the health of citizens, the economy of the country and the finances of professionals, workers and families. We are introducing arrangements to facilitate the educational process. Today, on the occasion of the start of the new school year, I want to wish from this Step, a good start for all students, for all teachers, to have a good school year full of strength. The conditions under which our schools open this year are unprecedented and difficult for all. But I would like to assure the parents that they have no reason to worry, because the New Democracy Government is responsible for pandemic. And whatever problems occur along the way, we'll solve them. Such an unprecedented and such a health crisis requires constant vigilance and determination from the state. And our government has done this to us. It also requires effective management by government officials and services. In this area we have had considerable performance. And we continue in this direction with a view to the optimum functioning of the state structures and services provided. We are already discussing the new draft law on digital governance in Parliament's committees. It requires cooperation and responsibility from them. Citizens. Because only with cooperation and responsibility will we overcome the health crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing SYRIZA's colleagues who only know how to do well is a reaction to the reaction, a cheap opposition without any real proposal. And I am sorry to say that, but we have not heard any proposal in our Parliament today. While government has constantly called for consensus and support and has been blamed for us as divisive, we are taking measures today and you are accusing us of being excessive and strict. We relax the measures and ask for more measures. I still don't know what you want or what you're proposing, but where you're going with it. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, have you finally come up with what you want, what do you want to say to the Greek people? Now let's go talk about the articles in the bill. The first legislative act extends the possibility of suspending the contracts of employment for both August and September for a number of branches affected by the pandemic and extends the scope of the 'Cooperation - WORK' mechanism. It demonstrates with these provisions how much our government is interested in work, workers and employers, in entrepreneurship. Let us not hide, rarely governments are concerned and support private sector workers who are always the first to be affected by the crises. We are, however, doing so. We have the courage to do it. In the following articles, we bring arrangements for the production of antiseptics exclusively for the Greek territory, the possibility of granting import licences with denatured ethyl alcohol is extended until the end of the year, as well as for products and methods of sampling. These regulations are typical of how our government and ministries are faced with the health crisis, as we take care of the slightest detail regarding the armouring of public health. Because that is the question, ladies and gentlemen, of the immunisation of public health. We then have various provisions on health services, staff regulations in the health sector, procurement arrangements. All the arrangements we bring are important. They aim to deal effectively with the consequences of pandemic. But there's no time to talk about everyone. After all, there has been a constructive debate at committee meetings. I shall mention, for example, Article 5, which enables the EMCDDA to purchase parts of ambulances by way of derogation from the provisions of this Regulation, so that it can meet its growing needs. And because there are always reactions to regulation by way of derogation from the provisions, I would like to stress that this health crisis is the definition of an emergency. All of us are aware of the serious problems and shortcomings of the EMRP. So here, let's finally decide what we want? Do we need an ambulance proficiency, or do we just prefer to whine, but do nothing about it? Do we need more intensive care units, doctors, nurses? Is there anyone who disagrees with strengthening and improving urban transport? Is there any objection to having modern, reliable, clean, comfortable public transport? Because we have heard this before, too, that we are going to pass provisions on pretext to COVID. With this logic, with COVID or without, let us leave public transport to their fate, passengers conspiring in old, dirty and poorly maintained vehicles and waiting for hours at the stops. No, ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed. We're not going to stay inert. And with the second act of legislation, we are bringing emergency arrangements for strengthening urban transport, for the best service of the passenger, for avoiding crowdage, for ensuring everyone's health, and we give the OSCE the opportunity to hire buses, as well as for recruiting staff where necessary. There are corresponding arrangements for the exceptional reinforcement of the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like to ask for some tolerance and thank you very much. For schools, for which debates were opened and everyone disagreed with everyone, we give the municipalities the opportunity to provide public schools with all the necessary means of personal protection and to strengthen the cleanliness staff of the school units. We also bring necessary economic and tax support measures for the tourism sector and additional measures to protect jobs and, of course, we have the financial support for the floods in Euboea, which is exempt from any detention, contribution, tax and neither is bound or offset. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many articles in the bill and so many in the amendments tabled and all the articles are important. There is, moreover, no time and I have been sufficiently covered by my colleagues. There is also no time for micropolitical and party interests to be taken to the detriment of public health, education and work. The country's Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in his speech at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, was specific. Our action programme has a slogan: "Faith, self-confidence, self-confidence, self-confidence, self-confidence in health". We are strengthening work, opening doors to investment, continuing to implement our electoral commitments to the Greek people consistently with each taxpayer, and consistently with the pensioner. Madam President, may I say something even thank you very much for the time you have given me. After all, I am the last speaker of the New Democracy for today's sitting -. I wonder how you have the courage, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to talk about Moria? Didn't you create Moria? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Didn't you say the sea had no borders? Tell us clearly what the position of the European United Left is, what the Left is and come here to see what the position of the European People's Party is. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Nothing's random. It is no coincidence that the New Democracy is the only party in the country that has these percentages, which inspires Greek citizens, which all polls show a great deal of confidence in this party, in this government, in this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Colleague, you must be done, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u189	In conclusion, I would like to express the wish to support all the provisions of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u190	I, too, thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u192	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u193	Since Mr Burnus from SYRIZA said that the JRC did not support the European Parliament's request for the closure of Moria's CYPRUs, I must tell you that in the next day, with an urgent question, the European Parliament of the JRC, Leuter Alavanos, has tabled questions on how the European Commission is finally placed on the closure of the Moria Cyt, not to open up any more to Lesvos or to the other islands, to organise the transfer of refugees and migrants immediately by keeping all health protocols to the continent, ensuring areas with human safety and hygiene for their temporary hospitality until they have the necessary travel documents to reach their final destinations with special care for families with children and unaccompanied minors. He also asked about the need to staff and equipment the public state free health system, so that he could provide the entire population of the islands and the hinterland with the necessary services of diagnosis and treatment from the pandemic. The fact that he did not sign with the SYRIZA team will not say that the JRC did not immediately intervene on the Moria issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for clarifying. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention is not, in principle, intended to highlight positive or debateable provisions in the context of the debate on today's bill. Our rapporteur and speakers from all the parties have already recorded the main points with their speeches. However, I would like to make a brief reference to Article 15 of the second legislative act concerning measures to support professionals in art, culture, tours and tourist accompanyings. In particular, this is the EUR 534 granted to the above-mentioned professionals who fulfil the conditions you have set. First of all, this is a positive measure. Every subsidy, even the one given on many conditions, is a move in the right direction. However, there are four points that need to be raised. Firstly, compensation is not enough, as it concerns a few and excludes a large majority of artists and workers in the area and does not cover all the time. Secondly, to defend the industry in general, we are very close to the beginning of the winter season and we still have no indication of how the venues of the events will open. You know well that people of culture should already have planned their appearances and started rehearsals. However, the Ministry's precariousness is declining them in a standby that will certainly cost them. The third point is the general targeting of cultural events. Although there is strict respect for health protocols in the vast majority, there is a draconian treatment for cultural events. The result is that many events have been cancelled, people in culture endure protocols and cancellations without any aid, without any compensation. Finally, while in the first paragraph of Article 15 you specialize - rightly so - who are the beneficiaries of the compensation, you are returning to the sixth paragraph on terms and conditions for payment of the special allowance, which will, however, depend on the decisions of the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs. You should support the industry with a number of institutional and economic measures to finally breathe the space. You are asked by thousands of people in culture who have been protesting for months for their rights. And you know there's no civilization without his people. However, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken today mainly to support the parliamentary amendment that I tabled together with Andreas Blonde on the subject: 'An extension of the time limit for the maintenance of genetic material'. Although we had a positive commitment, I would say, of the Minister, you will allow me to briefly present to this House some of the contents. Article 7 of Law 3305/2005 regulates the conditions and conditions for the application of ova, ovarian tissue, sperm ovine, orchial tissue and fertilised ova to specific cryo-reservation banks. Paragraph 3 defines in particular the duration of cold maintenance. In particular, maintenance is carried out according to the category from five to ten years. In specific cases, however, it is possible to extend cold storage in accordance with the applicable provision, which only allows for a period of five years. The time extension may be justified on social or medical grounds or on objective grounds of inability to use the crystalline preserved material. The same paragraph stipulates that for this extension the National Medical Aided Reproduction Authority shall decide at the request of the interested parties. Scientific data, however, demonstrate that the extension of the time limit of the cryptized material is still safe for more than thirty years. There is no problem, no alteration or any other coma technical, scientific or social to prevent the prolongation of the physiological preservation. For example, in Britain, the limit is fifty-five years, while in other countries it is forty-five years. It is therefore proposed, with the amendment, that the change to paragraph 3 of Article 7 of Law 3305/2005, with the maximum limit of cold maintenance, should be increased to thirty years after written requests by interested parties. [[At this point, Parliament's Vice-President, Mr KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] As has been made clear in the content of the amendment, this is not a political arrangement or an economic arrangement. On the contrary, it is about a social need. And what is the social need that this particular amendment serves? In my opinion - and I think you will all agree with me - she is a genius. On the one hand, it allows interested parties to retain genetic material for more years to remove possible reasons which make it difficult to use, such as health reasons. For example, someone or someone may have frozen genetic material and unfortunately become ill with a severe illness. However, when he goes through it, several years later, it is very likely that he might be or help him to make the genetic material that he had had the chance to freeze once. So the first dimension is purely personal. We are giving the opportunity to a man who has an opportunity to give birth to for more years. A second dimension is social. In a period of demographic downturn, we should consider all the parameters that help women and men to give birth to older age. One measure is what we are proposing to you, precisely in order to support the social need of increased birth. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider the Minister's current commitment to be positive. The House also has to take its initiatives to cure the provisions which make life difficult for our citizens, precisely because on such sensitive issues we can show our social solidarity and our empathy. I hope, therefore, that it will be voted on by a strong parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u196	Thank you. Now Mr Thraniotis Emmanuel has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I feel the need for a personal confession, to apologise in some way and to apologise not from the media, as some Members of the New Democracy have done and the Prime Minister himself, implying their interdependence, but from the colleagues of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and from Paul Paul Paulakis himself, for my absence in the vote on the proposal on the waiver of immunity. I place myself in this way because it could be found in this position, but above all in order to point out that no battle is considered or to be considered lost before being given. The conclusions from this vote are useful and taught. Today we are called upon to ratify the legislative acts concerning the armouring of the health system against COVID -19, the strengthening of the floods of Euboea and the measures of the Ministry of Education. I would like to express my warmest condolences to the victims' relatives and stress that any support to the flooders must be made transparently and not have the fate of Mr Mollyviat's fund. I would also point out that in his position, the Mayor, Mr. Psathas, has said that over a month ago the inhabitants of the region have been unable to access drinking water. But let me make a comment on the position of the rapporteur for the New Democracy. At the first meeting he was placed with low tones, he scrutinised the government's obedience - no one to it - stressing the characteristics 'the government was and is present for everyone' and closed with 'I think any good judge can conclude that the New Democracy Government is doing its impossible every day'. So the New Democracy is present for everyone? For everyone? And for workers, for example, in casinos where they are unpaid for six months, while the owner is given millions and who does not indict the workers equally, but prefers to put the members of the club on trial? Then, in the article, after hearing the bodies, the rapporteur began with a severe attack on SYRIZA and one can reasonably wonder: What happened? What's changed? What was it? But the hearing of the bodies, where, in their overwhelming majority, they restored the account and the image of the government for Greece it builds, the account of a virtual Greece presenting the systemic media, for which some majority MPs publicly apologise for their loss of immunity. At the hearing of the bodies, however, the real image of the country was the one experienced daily by the majority of citizens, by representatives, first of all, of the WTO on the situation in the public health sector, which is constantly weakening, secondly, the Teaching Federation for the opening of schools in particular in primary education, which the management of school resources requires greater effort and care due to age, especially in conditions of pandemic. It is a temporal insult to students, teachers, parents, to invoke the average of seventeen pupils per class, when today with the opening of schools there are too many classes with over twenty-five students. Will the risk of the coronary transmission be reduced? There was sufficient time to take substantial measures, such as other countries, and particularly our neighbour Italy. Thirdly, the pensioners from whom you have deprived the sum that the Council of State has called on the majority of the pensioners under EUR 1,000, who after the abolition of the tenth pension voted by the SYRIZA Government, after the abolition of the exceptional Christmas allowance, are deprived of them another significant sum as the gifts are excluded from the return of the retroactives you have decided on. The country's good course in the first phase of the pandemic was lost because, despite the warnings of a careful opening to the tourism that you ignored them, you proceed to the opening without substantially preventive measures, under the pressure of the tour operators, the airlines, so that the situation and climate can be reversed, contracts closed. And while many had hopes in September and October, in Lassithi Law at least I know best, bookings are cancelled by imposing the quarantine that some countries impose on the citizens who return from their holidays in Greece. As a result, professionals are immersed in disappointment. The long Greek summer ended very early and gloriously. As for workers in tourism, they see their income zeroing and winter prospects nightmares. In Lassithi, the situation becomes worse, at least as tragic. The destruction of olive cultivation, the inability to dispose of greenhouse-growing products due to COVID -19, the refusal on the part of the Government to support producers so that they can cultivate the prefecture leads to economic suffocation. I would like to highlight the half-yearly report on the publicity of the country's real situation in the field of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the backbone of the economy. I will only refer to some of the elements presented by the survey: Ragda, an increase in the inability to meet the obligations. According to the half-yearly economic climate survey in small and micro-enterprises, the 24th report shows the effects of the health crisis on small and micro-enterprises. Following the general improvement recorded in the previous six-monthly economic climate surveys of the Institute for Research of GSE, the economic situation of small and micro-enterprises has been sharply and thoroughly reversed. The vicious cycle of recession, overcompensation, seems to be revived. The risk of massive closure of small and micro-enterprises, which are the main pillar of employment in the country, is visible. The overcompensation of small enterprises is equivalent to the destruction of the middle-class remaining from the ten-year economic crisis, seriously jeopardising the maintenance of social cohesion. On this basis, the government's support measures to date are necessary both to strengthen business liquidity and to cover loss of incomes to be extended and complemented by a pragmatic framework for the settlement and management of their obligations. The Opposition - and especially the Occupation - has given written samples regarding the treatment of pandemic with proposals for the armouring of the public health system, support for the economy, businesses and workers, the majority of the Greeks. It's up to you to take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u198	Thank you. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, as well as the Minister for Economic Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Interior, presented today, 14-9-2020, a draft law: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and the Secretariat for European Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to accelerate the process of accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the European Union". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here you go, Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who attended the plenary sitting today, I think you can draw a conclusion from the position of the rapporteur, but also from the speech of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Andreas Xanthos, on what the conditions are for "Greece of confidence". It is something that really must exist as a goal, but it must be based on good conditions and not on communication fireworks. I just received a message on my phone from a friend who wrote to me: “But well, they could not order and receive masks for schools in the size of young children and received oversized, useless masks and handed them over to the children. Will they plan and receive and negotiate equipment?" And I think that, as much as it is a humor, it has a sufficient basis. Ladies and gentlemen, we must nevertheless wish the school communities, all the schools and the students and the teachers - as in the morning I heard Nikos Phile - to withstand, despite the great shortages in the schools, which today, by opening the schools, we have all seen, as well as in the face of this strange downgrading of the hierarchies about what is within the pandemic and within the new economic crisis, the real needs of the Greek society. And in this act of legislation that is now coming for ratification, which is from 22 August 2020, there is in Part I provisions of the Ministry of Finance Article 6, entitled ‘Additional State Budget for the financial year 2020’, which increases the budget appropriations for the year 2020 by EUR 6,76 billion and so many, some 7 billion euros, announced Mr.Mitsotakis in Thessaloniki. Given that there is a dramatic reduction in the revenues of the Greek State from the pandemic and the economic crisis, I wonder - and they have not explained to us - what resources these funds will ensure and what they are directed at and where they are distributed. Because it is clear that the first answer we would get is that they are guaranteed by the worst government of a Greek state, the SYRIZA government. And that cannot be ignored, and no one can deny it. So what remains unanswered is where they are directed, where they are directed. In this chapter, there is a sum of EUR 600 million for the national defence and for the refugee together. Because together, I don't understand, but, anyway, in the same code and together. The floating dam is to be repaid from this money, 500,000 euros, or what else? I have made an effort - and I have addressed myself - to clarify what needs and in what direction these amounts will be channelled. Legislative acts already apply from their publication in the Official Journal of the Government. I didn't get an answer. And from this point of view, I do not understand how the Prime Minister can speak about the "Greece of confidence" and how far it is from dealing with this profound threat of the dismantling of the social fabric and social cohesion, in passing, a cornerstone of the country's defence. Without social cohesion there is no defence, no matter how much equipment we have! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There, then, are all these issues raised on the occasion of the debate on the legislative act, top issues. We'll have the budget soon. We are now entering the end-of-year process with ever-increasing issues. I will not go far enough for the legislative act. Article 8 of the same chapter, which is ODA overtime, obviously also accepts it - is a very old issue - as is additional staff insurance. But, for the second time, we are tabling an amendment from the SYRIZA Members for similar regulations for NSAs with heavy and unhealthy, not only overtime, heavy and unhealthy workers and production workers. In any case, there must be equal weightings, because everyone is equal rights workers. From there on, with regard to Article 45 with regard to the reclassification of appeals for a short period, we are obviously in a positive position. It's an emergency solution. However, the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki announced fifteen thousand recruitments in the area of the Armed Forces. How did the Prime Minister calculate them? We left the draft new structure of the army on track, and a year and a half now we are calling for it to come to the committee responsible and for it to be processed and updated, to understand that there are many solutions to save money for the Armed Forces, while at the same time increasing their efficiency, efficiency and armoring of the country with less money. The new power structure is therefore an essential condition to discuss whether new recruitments will be needed and what and when and when. And Mr. Mitsotakis, with the greatest demagogic naivety, announces it in Thessaloniki. That sounds really good. And for our 'our' children even far better! But to God, is that a responsibility towards the country's defence? Is this a serious approach to such critical and serious issues? In this respect, there should also be an answer, namely, how it emerges, while we had assurances to the relevant committees, which some of them do not work in public, but with protection from publicity...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u201	I shall finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u202	But soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u203	Give me one more minute. ...the ideas had been rejected for the army in eighteen and for all of this. How does Mr. Mitsotakis announce this? Just when youth is at the moment in competition to finish high school, to find work, to find its turn, what it will study and through this struggling effort to get into production with the greatest undisciplinedness toward youth, the Prime Minister announces it. It says, of course, 'we will study and consult'. But he's announcing it. Back to eighteen. Where and where? And what does this have to do with strengthening the National Defence? I'm done. The phenomenon of the ethnic guard in Lesvos, who wrote these "products", is ready to shoot moving targets in this field where refugees are installed, is a phenomenon of the New Democracy. Of course he was fired. Right. It is an act of righteousness and wisdom. Anyway, you're protecting yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Comrade, you've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u205	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u206	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u207	The debate on the equipment announced by Mr Mitsotakis lightly, without a plan, without planning, without the opinion of the responsible organs of the army, is a big issue that should be addressed to the Greek Parliament. The Greek Parliament must in particular determine developments in the field of armaments, which is also a very serious and crucial issue for the defence of the country, but also for social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u208	Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is undoubtedly a very important draft law, which includes a number of provisions on the competence of other ministries. It's one of those bills that define our lives in the post-Koronian era. You will allow me, for the sake of time, to confine myself to some important points, in my opinion. What is distinguished in the bill is a tendency for workers to be affected by the various provisions, which legitimizes unpaid and undeclared work by introducing unpaid overtime for those who have been put into compulsory quarantine. What now, gentlemen of the government? How to interpret state justification and establish unpaid and undeclared work? Article 17 cuts the Christmas gift, which concerns countless workers, who have recently been suspended employment contracts, which will now be calculated not on the basis of the nominal salary, but on the basis of compensation for a specific purpose of EUR 534. Excuse me, but what kind of social policy is that? We are talking about a shrinking of incomes of whole groups of workers. Either way, the draft law leaves a lot of gaps and it seems that the workers are still the ones to pay for the coronary crisis. And this at a time when unemployment is beginning to escalate at alarming levels. We want to talk about arts and culture in this country. With the provisions of Article 15, professionals of art and culture, guides and tourists are covered for the months of September and October. What will happen, however, from there on, ladies and gentlemen, given that our tourism this year has shrinked, while forecasts for 2021 are not better? It is obvious and we have pointed it out as a Greek Solution that unfortunately we are going to abolish entire sectors in our tourism. I'm going to show you some points that show the dubiousness of the bill and government decisions at this very critical juncture. We agree that the public health system needs to be strengthened. You say that the EGE's administrative staff contracts are extended for four months, but we do not know which specialities they relate to. And why only for four months? Then the coroner will disappear as magically? It also legislates the government as a matter of urgency for public procurement, while it had so long to do so with its comfort. Why was there not a timely open competition to ensure a better price for the public and transparency? At this point I will make a reference to something that neither this draft law nor you have brought it to Parliament so far: to planning for the primary health care system, which the government itself considered absolutely essential to address the new age of the coronary. So where is this design? Why did the government not include him in this bill? So semimeters and not a complete plan. How then do we not worry about what comes after a new likely outbreak of the epidemic - pandemic? Finally, on the most sensitive subject in the school year, to which, unfortunately, the government is still re-examined. Why? Because, while there was so much time to organize a full and complete project, the government finally made this strange decision to open the schools with compulsory use of the mask by students and less than twelve years old. Up to twenty - seven children, however, will be stacked in small rooms. But the Ministry recognizes the mask as the number one problem. Where are the necessary distance measures? Where is the recruitment of new temporary teaching staff? Where is the increase in teaching rooms? In conclusion, I should like to point out that legislation such as this is very critical, as they identify a situation which is almost permanent in the aftermath of the pandemic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is clear that we are going to relaunch the economy and integrated professional sectors. This must be borne in mind by the government which has shown itself to be unprepared to much since the beginning of this crisis and must pay due attention to the laws that define the framework in which we will move from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. Mr Bukokouros will now be followed for five minutes and then the rapporteurs will, if they so wish, for four minutes. You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u211	With your tolerance, of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u212	Always!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u213	There is no doubt, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the content of today's bill is very important, because its provisions aim to tackle the pandemic, reduce the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, but also to strengthen the Armed Forces of the country by making decisions taken and promoting others that are to be taken to strengthen the Armed Forces, as the Prime Minister said yesterday from Thessaloniki. And while in such an important bill we would expect a substantiated criticism with proposals, what every good-faithful and careful observer of today's debate can easily see is nothing but a slogan of promises and blessings, an endless 'lovelessness', according to which everything must be given to everyone without any evaluation and, above all, no cost. Of course, the order, sir, does not spoil homes, says the Greek people. However, in critical circumstances such as the time spent by the country, which faces a threefold challenge, which is to tackle the pandemic, the consequences of it, but above all to defend the national interests of our country, it requires, if you want, a greater, more serious, a cool, and, above all, documented and costly proposals. It is easy in the easy and painless times to promise everything to everyone, but such times we should all be more tempered in our words. So the problems, but multidimensional and the policy announced by the government, are very diverse. And that is not only the content of today's bill, but above all what the Prime Minister said in Thessaloniki. And not to say words and theoretical approaches, let's see reality. I note from the opposition that the first wave has been successfully tackled and that the second one is facing problems. We've got more cases. Of course, gentlemen, we have more cases. Is that supposed to be our concern? Of course we must be concerned. We have more tests. However, the index of mortality in the country - I said it in my prototype - is fortunately still being kept at very low levels. We have thirty people who have lost their lives per million people. This ranks our country in the hundredth tenth place. This is a reality that cannot be ignored. Of course, the opposition is doing well and criticising, and the government is doing well and is speeding up and taking steps, because we do not want the cases to become victims. And we hope that this will not happen, and I think that as long as policies are being developed to shield the national health system with six thousand two hundred hirings, as the head of the Ministry of Health has said to date, as long as the tests are being increased, as long as the measures and local measures are seen to be necessary, I hope that we will be in the tenth place in terms of a number of victims. That's what's important. Because all policies, whether we agree with them or disagree, have this aim, to ultimately protect human life. Let's not meditate. Fortunately, so far, the country has been able to do so. The consequences of the pandemic: incalculable, large, painful for society and the economy. But we don't have a darned government. We have a government that banned redundancies and subsidizes job suspension. Is the damage making a profit? A worker who was taking 750 euros - I'm not telling you much - and now he's taking 534 is a winner? Oh, no. That is why there are parallel measures, such as the reduction of employers and workers' contributions, which will give a low wage of EUR 120 a year, to an average price of EUR 250 a year, to a high price of EUR 350 a year. Together with suspending the solidarity levy, we will only get close to one wage with these two measures. For free professionals and farmers, this suspension of the solidarity levy constitutes a significant amount. And, of course, I live in the Prime Minister's statement that we are announcing 6.8 billion meters right now, but we have in the ammunition stores and other ammunition. We don't know what the evolution will be in any way. One cannot be sure to say today that evolution will be that and its duration will be that and therefore the consequences will be those in the economy. I think there is a political wisdom. They leave pandemic fingerprints and government policy comes to restrict them, and above all, yes, ladies and gentlemen, to build Greece of confidence for the next day. This is also the case in the matter of our national interests. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It has not retreated so easily, even occasionally, Turkey, because it will always be there. Her provocativeness, her aggression and her claim have been upgraded. But the country has been able to build a diplomatic wall lately. Turkey basically across the Mediterranean and across Europe stayed with half Libya. All Mediterranean countries and most European countries participated actively with Greece. That is not enough, of course, and that is why we are going to strengthen the Armed Forces with modern weapons systems and, above all, with inspiring material, based on what the Prime Minister announced in Thessaloniki, because the country needs them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u215	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think I have plenty of time for the protology I've only talked about for three minutes. I would therefore say that the needs of the Armed Forces are defined by the needs of the country and by the challenges that the country has to face. After all, it is this inspiring material, the staff of our Navy, our pilots, our officers and soldiers of the Mississippi Army who have consistently faced the challenges of the last few days. This staff therefore come from the women and men of the Armed Forces and from the Government's policies to strengthen, of course, with the help of the modern military systems announced by the Prime Minister and for which I did not see any major objection. It must not escape anyone that our national interests now - and for the reasons of natural resources, for the reasons of pipelines and the wider alliances and international trade - are also being touched on in the Eastern Mediterranean. Together with the contacts that are rekindled in the Balkans, Greece plays the role and, of course, beyond any variations and different positions and opinions, we must all be concerned about the creation of an arrogant national front, because these are challenges not of certain governments or political parties but of whole generations. We have never said that we are doing everything perfectly or that there are no failures. We say that there is one programming, there is the political will to deal with the problems, to be dealt with successfully, and that really strengthens our national confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u216	Indeed, Mr Bukkoro, you had ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u217	You owe me two, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Loverdo, you want something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I should like to begin by addressing myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u221	I see your time is pressurized.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u222	If there's no time, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u223	The rapporteurs and the Minister will speak. Is all the rapporteurs here? Do all the rapporteurs want to talk? From what I can see, everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u224	Shall we begin, Mr. President? How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u225	Four minutes. Is that enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u226	From what I saw from the previous speaker, I think I am entitled to more, but I will be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u227	Four minutes. You're entitled to it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Apostle, I haven't exhausted my time. As a parliamentarian, I spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u229	We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u230	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u231	I heard your location. You managed a first, successful, thanks to the efforts of the Greek people, to tackle pandemic, in a way, first of all, communication. I think your main objective is how this effort will appear as a personal triumph of Mr Mitsotakis, while basically it was the result of a great effort made by the Greek people. So you are now coming to the second stage, where you are honestly doing what you are doing, to use pandemic as a tool to bring in provisions which have nothing to do with the content of the two acts of legislation, because you are raising issues that should normally come in this way. Why should the two acts of legislation not come as they were and there was an obligation because of urgency and need, but are you coming and putting other provisions that are essentially what they are doing? Was your attempt to attack labour rights, to attack education and, more generally, to create an image, which is what it shows? That you really don't respect the Greek worker, you don't respect the Greek teacher. In addition to this, there is a huge problem - particularly because the tragedy experienced by Evia has also occurred in the House - that you have managed this issue, when there have already been similar credits and projects that have matured to address the great anti-corrosion and flooding issue that the region had after last year's fires. So you're coming all this and you're using it not just, I'd say, communication. Because, indeed, the Prime Minister's visit to Chalkida is characteristic. One minute, two minutes with the chopper, barely to get the picture out and go. So why do we not react to this whole scene, which you are creating, when, from our side and, of course, especially in the first phase, we supported the efforts of the Greek people and the proposals that we have made here, we have tabled to you. We were available to support the effort, of course, provided that you withdrew from your side. Do you now imagine that the Greek society will believe, will we believe that Mr Brutsi does not know that he institutionalises undeclared and unpaid work? Does Mrs Keramos not know that with the entry of cameras into classrooms, the school courses actually bring - I said it and I will say it now - Big Brother in school classes? So, from our side, at least on this path, we are and will give the Greek people the effort to deal with the pandemic. But, at last, you realise that your behaviour, especially on such issues, is not what demonstrates the need for all of us to serve together. I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Mr. Poulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully to the New Democracy's dear colleague, the Parliamentary Representative, about the figures you have presented. Sometimes the numbers make mistakes and this situation that you are now showing is very good - and I will not disagree - can change immediately. Our problem is that we haven't shielded the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u234	I said it in my protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u235	That's our problem, and that's why we're criticising this field, that the National Health System is naked right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u236	I've said it in my protology and my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u237	If things don't work out, we'll face problems, we'll see other situations. One is that. The second thing I would like to point out is that you have tabled amendments to amendments, six, seven? That's not a sample of good legacy. I do not think these amendments have a vision, they have a plan for how to solve the problems of the country. Let's go to another subject that relates to my own specialty as a doctor: for kidney patients. You give an extension until 30-12-2020 to incorporate the kidney patients roaming in the hospitals of Athens into MFIs and private units. We must, Minister, solve the problem in its roots. I know the problems these people face, but I also know the problems my colleagues, nephroologists, each time coming to them a new incident at the clinic, not that they don't know how to deal with it, but that they should be a human being, a lifeless body, which we put on dialysis, makes four hours of dialysis and gets up and gone. The patient, the kidney patient, needs monitoring. You need to look at this more seriously and solve it definitively, including them either in the MFIs or in the private sector units, he also said in the state units. Because there are positions there too. Another thing I would like to point out is that at the last minute you have decided to involve the district manager in public health. We told you that the district services that have doctors could be involved in the management of COVID. They will now suddenly come and decide, together with the regional coordinator, whether primary or secondary, what schools will be closed, what will be opened and how the incidents will be managed in schools, which I hope will not be presented at all. That is to say, you are to be retrospective. We could say a lot more. I'll stay on these, respecting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Poulla. Mr Katsotis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u239	Gentlemen of the government, are you struggling to increase expenditure on people's health and education for their children, for decent workers' income, for effective protection of the unemployed? Is that why you refuse to hire doctors, health personnel, increase intensive care units according to the WHO, the World Health Organisation, fund health, take classes in new rooms, which exist, with fifteen students and count the students twenty-five and twenty-seven, as you voted in the previous amendment that you have brought? Is that your agony? The business groups, if not the positive budget goes for the people, and does the money not remain to scare the business groups, which you are constantly begging them? And you come here to say that everything's okay, that the pandemic runs it on the basis of people's health? Mr. Bukkaro, are people's lives numbered? Would we have had so many incidents at the Yannitsa factory if you forced the employer to run a free test on the workers? Would there be so many cases in the hospitals, in the nursing homes, if there really were all these measures that you should take? You are responsible for the intubated, the deaths and cases. It is your job to develop with the pandemic, and now you must take immediate action, otherwise you are accountable to the people themselves. He came here and the Minister of Labour tells us that the measures he takes are helpful. Is it a charity measure for workers to live with EUR 534, for those taking, for those on parole? Is it a charitable measure to reduce the employee's income by over 20%? Is it a charitable measure to allow the employer to employ the worker for overtime without any pay? Is it a charitable measure to tell the employer, to the entrepreneur, "can you employ overtime the staff, as much as you want, whenever you want and pay them as much as you want?". This is a working hell, it's a middle age. It is a polite measure to abolish the Christmas present, the 13th wage, because that is, the 13th salary. Today you say it will count on the allowance at 534 euros. Who are you going to convince? The workers don't live? Are you going to convince the workers? We therefore say that you must get back, even now, before the vote on Articles 10, 17 and 18. It changes labour law radically, what the working class has lived for the last few centuries. As far as the amendments are concerned, we wanted to refer to Amendment No 455/79. Mr Stavuras came here and spoke for a long time. You are clearing the scenery in business to privatize them very quickly and clearly. You will give them to business groups, businesses such as PYRKAL, the Scaramaga Shipyards or ELVO mentioned here by Mr. Stagiras, but also other such businesses. So you open the way to clear up the landscape so that business groups here can rock and grab these business fillets. In addition, Amendment No 456/80 facilitates privatisation in total. There are new arrangements in paragraph 5 for the Hypothet. That is what we could call 'the present'. Why? Because it's just prolonging and it's not forbidden. In the next few years this strategic study on Hymittos will surely give much of it to the appetites of business groups. Finally, with regard to Amendment No 457/81, we and here we are against because it does not solve the question of courts. On the contrary, while the lawyers and judges are living in a situation in the courts, this cannot be solved electronically. It can't be solved. In addition, lawyers and lawyers have expressed their opposition and in total legal associations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need much time. I will only deal with two issues. The first issue is these figures, these figures probably announced today by the Minister of Finance. We have been trying for too long now to find out what the real figures are, what really are available in the Greek economy and what difference they have with the statements. We are constantly finding different statements, like the one we have heard today. What we have heard is that the pillow has increased, the cash reserve that the public has had from 37.5 billion to 38.5 billion. At the same time, we heard that the state was borrowed in six instalments of 14 billion dollars. Moreover, he took the ANFAs one and a half billion. A total of 15.5 billion were entered and the pillow increased by one billion. This means that, in essence, state liquidity was made available to the economy to 14.5 million, of which we must of course remove government revenues, which was at the first seven months of the year about 4.1 billion. The Greek economy was thus made available a little more than 10 billion, which we consider to be extremely low. On the other hand, we do not think it should be proud that Greece maintains such a height of pillow when it has so many needs. Is it possible to maintain 38.5 billion, when we all need to know very well that, in order to develop the Greek economy, public investment should be made, a large sum should be allocated to the Public Investment Programme, so that private investment should then be followed? We think it is an irresponsible economic policy that we will ultimately pay for. I also wanted to refer to what Mr Pális said earlier. It is not at this moment, but it obviously spoke as a representative of the Communist Party, and I think we should also respond. Mr. Pafilis referred to us. He said that we are pursuing a very right-wing policy, far-right, so that we can attract far-right voters. I think he made a huge mistake, and he should sometime make it up to me. As far as Moria is concerned, we said that we know who has set fires. Obviously we do not know, but if he knows it, it will be good to tell us. It should also know - at least according to what the Prime Minister said - that one out of ten, of these immigrants in Moria, is a refugee and nine out of ten are immigrants. That's what the Prime Minister said at least. We understand that these are unfortunate people sent by Turkey. We fully understand that. But we have a problem with this situation. If she has a specific proposal, she should have told her. Greece's problems, as we mentioned before, are the economy, education and health and at the same time the national ones. These are Greece's main problems. But immigration is a problem too. We have security problems and social problems. We all know that, so there should also be a solution there, apart from the fact that, within these immigrants sent by Turkey, illegal immigrants, there are certainly several fanatical Islamics who are a problem for our defence. It should also be aware that a country, like our country, which is bankrupt and has so much unemployment, is very difficult to accommodate so many people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u242	Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy and the Minister will then speak. I would ask that other Members not come to the plenary session. I would ask you to stay out of the Chamber a little while until the vote begins, and not all of us in the same place, to have distances. Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I am not going to use my dentistry because I think that after eleven hours of meeting today and four exhaustive meetings in the committees, we have exhausted the issue and the arguments on either side have been put on the table. The issues have been understood, and I can see from my fellow Members' axes that we have mixed up the same arguments without further advancing the debate. So there is no question of dentistry on my part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u244	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. I will be brief for the time economy. Indeed, as Mr Tsavdaridis said, all these days we have exhausted the arguments, many things have been said, which have been heard, but once again we would like to clarify a few issues. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr. Xanthos mentioned the fact that we have increased cases. You're trying to find something to blame for the government. Obviously, we have increased cases, because we don't have a lockdown. The question is where these cases are with the measures we have taken and what measures we then take to limit them. The country works. The economy works. We don't have a lockdown. You referred to the Prime Minister's announcement last Saturday in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition on the large part planned in primary health care with the operation of time-consuming illnesses and daily care units. Then you said that we should emphasise the treatment of chronic illnesses. That's how it's done all over the planet. Chronic illnesses are treated at primary health care level. We do nothing less, we do nothing more than self-evident, daily care units in primary health care. Yeah, why wouldn't he have the public? It's private. You don't want the public daily care units to have? And here we'll do the self-evident thing. As far as the management of the coronary is concerned, too. We are already preparing the appropriate protocols, the necessary protocols, which have to do with restoring what has been taken from the coronary, because it is very important that this part should not only be concerned with those who have been ill. You referred to recruitment. While at the beginning of our pandemic you were accusing us of not hiring, you also saw that at the moment that the government's original planning was the two thousand subdelegated recruits, they have exceeded six thousand two hundred recruits with specific planning and permanent recruitment, not only for other staff, but also for doctors with direct notices now of two hundred positions for intensive care units and an additional two hundred and three thousand posts, which are being completed in the next few days of permanent medical staff, plus the programming we have for the next year. Recruitment, therefore, is not a matter of recruitment and needs, as we have dealt with the Kronovir period and we have shown that, in the face of the successful treatment of the coronary, there is no question of recruitment and we will be hiring the necessary staff. It was said about intensive care units that they don't exist. We will also present plans and programming for new intensive treatment units made by both the state and donation aid. It has been said that we have passed provisions in order to derogate town planning and that these units are in danger of falling apart. Mercy! The provisions we have passed were designed to speed up the authorisations to build up these units so that we are ready to reach the European average very soon in intensive care units. You told us that we were converting increased care units and other units, creating intensive treatment unit conditions. You saw what happened abroad. Corridors were converted into intensive treatment units. We together and with a plan, in fact, have turned increased care facilities, we have turned special surgical rooms where intensive care facilities are created in order to increase the availability of these units, but without leaving those who needed without the provision of health services. For example, the heart surgery incidents from "Attica", which we created intensified treatment unit conditions, were directed to the "Onceso". We did not leave any of our fellow citizens behind, nor those of our third age in the nursing homes, as you said, Mr Poula, - is a characteristic example of this - the surrounding kidney disease that is our insecure fellow citizens. We have covered them, we will cover them and we have a concrete plan in order for the next period to have the necessary health services they need. As far as diagnostics are concerned. I want to be clear once again. The country's production potential is the sum of the public and private sectors. So the state decided that someone had to do the test, each of our fellow citizens did it at no cost, it's free of charge. Each one can go to the private sector and run the test. But since the state considers that one has to do the test, it is free of charge, and from the eight hundred and fifty tests we carried out in March, we have exceeded fourteen thousand tests every day right now, and even our country has the privilege of having additional and rapid coronary diagnostic tests. We will be able to cover a larger proportion of the population. There have never been any shortages in materials, either in tests or in personal protective equipment. Personnel recruitment procedures have never been circumvented. The donations made to the National Health System by ordinary citizens to individuals and organisations, public and private companies, are fully recorded in kind and in cash. Equipment is located in the National Health System, which is used to upgrade our infrastructure to deal with a new wave of coronary. Also, as far as subsidiary doctors and all those who fight daily in health establishments are concerned: no one has been unpaid and no one will remain unpaid. Payrolls, on-calls will be paid in full. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u246	The debate is closed at the outset, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Standard (a) of 10.8.2020 Act of Legislative Content’. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 444a]] Ladies and gentlemen, two motions for a roll-call vote have been tabled. One of the SYRIZA Members concerned with Articles 10, 17 and 18 of the draft law, while the other with the JRC Members concerned with the principle and Articles 10, 17 and 18 of the bill. In particular, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 10, 17 and 18 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u247	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Apostle Evangelos. Here you go. Mrs. Ahchioglou Afe. Here. Mr. Aylonite Alexander - Christos. Here you go. Mr. Vitsas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Voutsis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Dr. Theodoros. Here you go. Mrs. Kafantari Charula (Hara). Here. Mr. Red Vassiliou. Here you go. Mr. Marcus Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Xanthiopoulos Theophilus. Here you go. Mr. Blonde Andreas. Here you go. Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou Marilissa. Here. Mr. Papa Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paulakis. Here you go. Mr. Ragousse John. Here you go. Mr. Skourletis Panagiotis (Panos). Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote for members of the SYRIZA. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 10, 17 and 18 of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u248	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Mrs. Canelle Liana. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Konnakka Maria. Here. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Marinos George. Here you go. Mr. Papanastassis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Stoltides Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We shall immediately proceed to the two requested roll-call votes concerning the Ministry of Health bill. Do you accept the two votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u250	The House has agreed. So there will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 10, 17 and 18 of the draft law. We inform you that the system will remain open for an hour and thirty minutes. As you have been informed by your parliamentary groups your turnout will be alphabetically every sixty Members and every quarter to avoid conspiracy. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u251	I would like to inform you that a letter has been sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, which makes its vote known. This vote will be recorded in the Minutes and will be taken into account in the online count, which will be followed. [[The above-mentioned hierarchical vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] CHANGING PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been letters from colleagues in the Bureau, Mr George Papandreou, Mr Georgios Arvanitides, Mr Charalambos Kastanides, Mr Kefalidou, Mr Evangelias Liikalis, Mr Baran Bourhan, Mr Demetrios Biagi, Apostle Pana, Stavros Arahovitis, Mr Ioannis Drasaki, Mr Konstantinos Zouri, Spyridona Lap and Nikos Igoumenides, who will not be present in today's roll-call vote and know us by letter of their intention to vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes. [[The letters referred to above are entered in the Minutes and are as follows:]] CHANGING PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u253	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. At the beginning of the bill, a total of 282 Members voted. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. On the first point, i.e. 'Notice', 124 Members voted. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Article 10 of the bill passed 282 Members. In favour of Rule 10, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 10, i.e. 'NOV', 124 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Under Rule 17 of the bill, 282 Members voted. In favour of Rule 17, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 17, i.e. 'No', 124 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 18 of the bill passed 282 Members. In favour of Rule 18, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 18, i.e. 'No', 114 Members voted. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u255	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments to the bill. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. We would point out again that the vote includes fifty two articles, eight amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u256	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u257	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u258	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Standard (a) of 10.8.2020 Act of Legislative Area ‘Environmental arrangements for the emergency needs of the National Health System, protection against the dispersion of the CIVID-19 koruna, support for the labour market and facilitation of the educational process’ (A '157) and (b) of 22.8.20 Act of Legislative Area ‘Extended measures to strengthen urban transport, supply of personal protective equipment and the recruitment of cleanlinesing staff of school units, support for tourist enterprises and the labour market and the strengthening of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection to address the consequences of the CIVID-19 pandemic, as well as support for the floods of Euboea affected by the floods of 8 and 9 August 2020’ (A'161), and other provisions to address the effects of the CIVID pandemics of the total and of the following incidents:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u260	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-14-S1-commons.u261	With the consent of the House at 22.56 minutes the sitting for the next Wednesday, September 16, 2020, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) a report by the President of the meeting on the International Day of Democracy and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate.
