ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 2a]] [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Resolution of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States’. I would like to inform you that a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on Article 1 of the bill, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u2	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou Marilissa. Here. Mrs Agathopoulos Irene - Helen. Here. Mr. Katrugalos George. Here you go. Ms. Anagnostopoulos Athanasia (Syia). Here. Mr. Athanasios Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Amanatidis John. Here you go. Mr. Vitsas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Voutsis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mrs. Gerovassili Olga. Here. Mr. Zachariadis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Igoumenides Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Muzalas John. Here you go. Mr. Balafas John. Here you go. Mr. Barcas Constantine. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Article 1 of the bill. I would like to point out that the vote includes an article. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would remind the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law that they must remain in the Chamber after the roll-call vote was completed, to vote for the entire bill. As you have been informed by your parliamentary groups, the system will remain open for about five hours and your turnout will be alphabetically every sixty Members and every hour to avoid crowding in the Chamber. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u4	I would like to inform you that a letter or fax (fax) of my colleague, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, has been sent to the Bureau, which gives notice of his vote. This letter will be recorded in the Minutes, and this vote will be announced and taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from the Members of the Kingdom of Digalakis and Stergios Giannakis, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'yes'. Members' letters, and so on, have been sent to the Bureau. Spyridonas Lappa, Christou Giannoulis, Konstantinos Zourari, Anna Vaguenas, Andreas Michaelides, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote 'Paris'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u6	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 285 Members voted. In favour of Rule 1, namely 'NAH', they voted 178 Members. Pursuant to Rule 1, i.e. 'Notice', 26 Members voted. They voted for 81 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted by a majority. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: CHANGING PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u8	At the end of the roll-call vote on Article 1 of the bill: "Consolidation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States", we proceed to vote on the bill and on the whole. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the bill. We note that the vote includes the entire bill. After you register your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u9	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u10	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u11	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole of the articles and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the President of Parliament's Group of Change, Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamata, has tabled a request for a preliminary order of order, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the subject: 'Application for a preliminary agenda for the debate in Parliament on the problems posed by the outbreak of pandemic in public health, the economy, the workers and the start of the new school year'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u14	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-27-S2-commons.u15	With the consent of this House at 20.04 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, August 31, 2020, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
