ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 10-12-20 authorization, the minutes of its NH's meeting, of Thursday 10 December 2020, concerning the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Reorganisation of the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriations and the rename of the Fund for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources, promotion of cultural heritage abroad, arrangements for the Historical Museum of Crete and the Museum of Foivos Angonakis’ and other provisions have been ratified by the Bureau.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: Questions Nos 222-12-2020 and 234-7-12-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Niki Kerameos. Questions Nos 230/7-12-2020, 235/7-12-2020 and 236/7-12-2020 will be answered by Mr Ioannis Brutsis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Questions Nos 220/12-20 and 229/12-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Question No 224/3-12-20 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos. Question No 219/12-20 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou. Question No 237/12-20 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Questions Nos 223/12-2020, 226/4-12-2020 and 1385/3-11-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Zoe Rapt. Question No 233/7-12-2020 and Question No 1080/26-10-2020 and 1132/234/27-10-2020 will be answered by Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Question No 239/7-12-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Pechas. We will begin with the second question number 222-12-2020 of the Second-Category of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “The child rearing licenses are unlawfully implicated in the newly appointed teachers of special education.” Mr. Constantinople, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you. Minister, I will go directly into this because I think you are well aware of it. We have asked questions, too, about the education of the Change Movement and other colleagues since Monday, September 7, 2020. The issue is child rearing licences for newly appointed special education teachers. A Circular of the Ministry of Education on 21 August 2020, issued shortly before the opening of the schools, provides that the duration of the breeding leave in the case of a staff member who, at the time of his appointment, already has a child under the age of four shall be quantitatively limited and shall have a duration of as long as the sum of the hours of the reduced time taken by the parent is the sum of the periods to be taken by the parent until the years of facilitation of the reduced working hours of the child. The arguments put forward to you - and you know that - relate to Article 21 of the Constitution. I think it's something you understand. I am standing up to something you yourself have said, because here is the important thing, that we should go a little further and not get into arguments that each one of us will say his own, but we will not find a solution. What did you say on 14-10-2020 in the House? That improvements can be made in all existing institutional frameworks. So you said that legislation is needed, to look at it, by saying your arguments. I tell you, Minister, something very simple. Today, after some time, after all these difficulties, knowing of all that you have so far assessed the issue better, but also the persistence of many people in it, I think, too, of your good will, do you understand, are ready as a government to act and improve the existing institutional framework, so that there are facilities for protecting family and child age? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u3	The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Kerameos. Good morning, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, Mr President, and thank you very much. Good morning, Mr. Comrade. I'll be right there, too. You said, Mr Colleague, child rearing licences are illegally curtailed in newly appointed special education teachers. No permission is cut, Mr. Constantinople. No right is lost. There is no change in the institutional framework. The circular to which you refer applies the current framework, the framework on breeding permits for newly appointed teachers, which, as you know, we did not have in our country. We never had newly appointed teachers in special treatment through ASP. This is the first time that permanent appointments have been made. And we do not have ten years of appointments in general education. The following point is needed here: there is a distinction between educational and administrative staff. For teachers, in accordance with the applicable special legislation, a newly appointed teacher who at the time of appointment has a child of up to two years shall be entitled to a part of the nine-month rearing leave, calculated on the basis of his reduced working hours, which he would receive until his child to become two years old. For administrative staff, in accordance with the legislation in force, the newly appointed administrative staff shall always be entitled to part of the nine-month leave, calculated on the basis of his reduced working hours, which he would receive until his child become four years old. Different status therefore applies to teachers, different status applies to administrations. There's nothing to be cut. I am referring specifically to the title of your question, Mr Constantinople. What is true, what is described in the institutional framework, is precisely what is provided for in the relevant circulars. With regard to nine-month rearing permits, these are normally granted to newly appointed teachers and to members of special educational and special assistant staff in accordance with the current framework. As you can see here, Mr Constantinople, we have to balance the protection of maternity, which is extremely important, on the one hand, and the rational management of human resources as a whole of education and, on the other, the need for our schools to function. I shall return to my denture with further evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u6	Minister, so far what you have said to me has been said. It's true. I've read them. It's a reality. We're talking about the newly appointed special-educated teachers. The title is not ‘unlawfully ‘bred breeding permits’, but ‘newly appointed special education teachers’. And of course the circular is based on the institutional framework. It is not on the basis of the non-institutional framework. Circulars come out based on the institutional framework. But here today, after so long - I saw what I told you - improvements can be made to these people. There is a specific circular based on the institutional framework. We ask: Is there also the government's willingness to change for the teachers of special education? How many newly appointed teachers of special education lack this right to child rearing for all and their other colleagues? We have submitted you in detail for the current Staff Code, for the proposals that have been made, for the Ministry of the Interior, for the Constitution and for Article 21 on the protection of the family, the marriage, maternity and childhood. We do not enter into reason that these people we love them and you do not love them. We do not enter into that logic and confrontation. We have not come here to say that we are in favour of benefits or not. It's an injustice. It concerns people who have the potential and must use something that other colleagues use. And it's unfair! The teachers of special treatment are people - especially the neo-definers, for whom you know better than I do - who must receive this guaranteed right of child rearing leave. I'd understand you telling me that this has a great cost and it can't be done. I don't think that's too much of a cost. I believe that you too, and I believe that this is a time to change, as you said. You said it on 14-10-2020. I'll remind you again. You have said that, but I am in favour of your reply. Here we are, discussing whether the institutional framework is right, whether it is necessary to improve. Does it require improvement? It's for granted. And you know it. So, of course, improvements can be made to the existing institutional framework so that it can get into this process, Minister, and the circular can also be changed. Simple, understandable to all of us. And I think your colleagues in the New Democracy have told you too. I am sure that all people who every day associate and discuss with newly appointed special-educated teachers raise this issue. Mr President, thank you for the time. But the Minister will also speak, because I believe that other colleagues will have questions. Nevertheless, I, Minister, invite you today to give an answer which, in essence, will be heard not only by the newly appointed teachers of special education, but also by society. And he will feel that there really is a single rule for all, but also for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Ma'am, I give you three plus all the minutes you want to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Constantinople, first of all let us be clear. Why are we talking today? We are discussing why the first appointments of special education and training were carried out in history. I say this because for years now we are all calling for permanent appointments and that is correct. And why did we ask for appointments in special education and training in particular? There are obviously needs throughout education. Especially in special treatment, because in special treatment, when you have a deputy, who is for fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, seventeen years, you understand that when today he is in Alexandroupolis and time is in Crete, the bond that develops between the teacher and the child is special. And when this teacher is called to change location, to go to another school, this bond breaks down. And that could have a significant effect on the child. That is why, in history, we have made permanent appointments to special education and education, four and a half thousand permanent appointments. First the prisoner. Second prisoner. Let's be clear, Mr. Comrade. Child rearing leave exists. There is until the age of two. Until the child becomes two years old, there is child rearing leave. Third prisoner. There is, in general, a different employment status between teachers and administration. Why? For example, summer holidays, which are completely different to teachers and different to managerial staff. So there is a whole different regime. Very easily you can come and say change the regime. First of all, it must be pointed out that the title is not accurate, that is to say, that the licences for rearing a child are unlawfully curtailed. It's not exactly the title. There's nothing to be cut. As the framework applies, that is precisely what is being done with the circular. As I said to you, then, and before that, obviously the legislator must - because he needs legislation - too many parameters in any decision. One aspect is obviously that a different project is offered by teachers and administrative staff. Another aspect is how it will balance the protection of maternity and the rational management of our education system and schools. Because our schools, Mr. Constantinople, must work. We must respect the right to maternity, but we must also think, when we propose something like what you are proposing, what will be the operational gaps in particular that arise from such a regulation. So all this has to be taken into account. And I insist on what I have said, that here we are discussing whether the institutional framework needs to be improved if all these parameters can be combined. Here we are to talk about it. And, of course, we are considering a comprehensive review of issues relating to teachers' services. Obviously this can also be discussed in this context, taking into account the different parameters that I have set you, the different work offered by teachers and managers, the balance of the protection of maternity on the one hand, and the rational management and the need for our schools and the creation of functional gaps. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you too, Minister. The seventh question under number 238/7-12-2020 of the Second Cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The scholarships of the IKY (the Institution of State Scholarships)" will not be discussed, after consultation of the two parties. The third under number 237-12-2020 will now be discussed at the second time question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki, on the subject of "To urgent measures for the proper and safe operation of special education schools in Crete". Mr. Symphony, good morning. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u10	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you. Madam Minister, today's topical is the occurrence of cases in special education schools in Crete. I am referring to ENEEGYL Heraklion and UNEC Rethymnon, while two more days ago we had a student from the Special Municipal School of Arkalochori of the Municipality of Minoa Pedada. This development, as you can see, has caused upsetting the educational community. Immediate measures must be taken under the responsibility of the Government in order to ensure that the special treatment structures are open and, above all, health-proof. For these schools, which do not have basic infrastructure to avoid co-existence, we have tabled relevant questions in the previous period, both timely and simple. You did not answer the question that we submitted to you on 28-9-2020 on the problems faced by the OLAF under the horrific housing conditions. And we obviously want to explain. Parents, teachers are waiting. We re-issued it a few days ago and we are soon waiting for your reply. Corresponding to a timely question to the Minister of the Interior about the ENEEGYL and the EEAE Heraklion, which was discussed, we had warned that the issue of the lack of modern, safe and operational infrastructure of special education schools and the unsafe transport of pupils - particularly in pandemic conditions, which these children, because of their disability, find it difficult to observe the rules of individual hygiene - creates conditions, conditions for the health bomb. Unfortunately, that was what we warned. That's what happened. The Ministry's tactics and protocols so far do not take into account the fact that students of special education schools in their vast majority cannot use masks and many face underlying illnesses. It is impossible to keep the planned distances, as most pupils often need physical guidance from workers taking care of not only the educational needs but also the personal needs of the pupils. And I'm talking about feeding, toileting, walking support, therapeutic support, and so on. Moreover, workers themselves in a special treatment unit are constantly exposed to pandemics, while many skills are in two and three schools. The risk of dispersal is therefore growing. This situation, of course, is a burden on staff. And I'm talking about teachers, special educational staff, special assistant staff, cleanliness staff. These problems still exist today. So we ask you, Minister, what urgent action will the government take in order, firstly, to carry out continuous and close medical monitoring of pupils and workers in special schools, with frequent and repeated free tests for pupils and teachers? Secondly, what are you going to do about the tracking process in case of case detection and medical surveillance of these cases? What are you going to do to reduce the number of pupils per section, to permit workers belonging to vulnerable groups, without the limitations imposed by the Ministerial Decision, to place all necessary staff in special schools with predictions and to make up for workers who are or will be authorised? What will you do about adequacy in all personal protective equipment? Also, what are you going to do to increase transport routes, reduce transported pupils by means, decontamination of premises before and after transport, tests on drivers and couriers and vehicles exclusively used for schools? Finally, children who, due to serious illnesses, remain in their homes to be supported interdisciplinaryly by every appropriate means under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr. Synchronous. The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Mrs. Zacharaki, good morning. We brought you asthmas, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u12	I just thought, Mr President, that the flow of questions was different. I am so sorry for the anxiety I may have caused in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u13	I apologise and thank you for your service.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u14	Be well! Mr Synthyriakis, I think you are putting an issue on which the Ministry of Education has shown many of its care and in recent months and after the initial treatment of the virus, in the first wave of the pandemic, where our special schools have actually been closed and it has been a difficult decision and a difficult process. The correctness of taking the current decision to open up and keep special schools from all this feeling of caring that we say is there for these children and there may be within school. It was painful for children to remain outside the learning process, which is not only limited to the part of receiving knowledge or specialisation, the specialties that one can have in the EEK, but also to all other care through the special assistant and special educational staff provided and provided by the public school. We must therefore agree that it is good that special schools remain open. It is also very hopeful - and it has to do with data, not only with hope or impression - that at the moment from the number of special schools we have in Greece about 4.5% remain closed because there was a case. Let's go see what happens when there's a case in every school. Immediately after the school has been informed, with the Regional Health Directorate, the Education Director is informed, and the measure is taken immediately, without a minute being lost, of the closure of the department or the closure of the school. This, Mr Synthraki, is being done - after all your questions, to answer their flow - because it has been sent from the beginning of the year - and, of course, the previous year - a special protocol on special schools, as well as on other schools, to deal with cases. And there's not just a point of order. CIVID has been appointed in charge of each school, a place has been designated at each school, so that the child or the greatest person, the teacher, can at that time be suspected of a case. Of course immediately afterwards, there is a very detailed tracking, since the person responsible for COVID has recorded all the close contacts of the particular child or teacher. There is, therefore, a flow of events that is happening and we must congratulate those who do so because they go beyond themselves and their duties - teachers do so, the first, who are responsible for COVID - and, in cooperation with regional health services, the answers, as I said, on the subject of the protocol and its implementation. Of course, along with the instructions on the health part, which we too are called upon to implement on the basis of the Special Committee of the EGE and the other relevant bodies, we have come and given specific guidance on what distance learning means, especially in special education and training. Why not all the same things and why modern tele-instruction probably cannot be applied to a child - or to a part of special education and education - that stays away. I'm giving the general framework. I will go in particular to the issues of Crete, but I wanted to be very clear about the fact that the protocol was in place at the very first moment, and it applies and everything at first, in the first two days, was as a malfunction, in order for this flow of understanding to be carried out, was fully normalized. Because this was about the intention, the commitment and responsibility of teachers and other competent health services, to protect teachers, children and the family environment. This is our red line, Mr. Synchronakis. We would not risk this whole educational community, the educational family and, of course, the family of children, who have to deal with multiple issues. However, I will come back with specific answers for Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Zacharakis. Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Zacharakis, the first comment I would like to make is that if there is care in these structures - which is taken care of - we owe it only to teachers and assistant staff, at the risk of always living and safety theirs. Unfortunately, the state and the governments over time - because it does not only concern your own government - have been deviant to these special treatment structures and, badly lies, they have fallen victim to the inadequacies of the educational and health system. No care, no differentiation and no specialisation, I would say, of the government's coronary management staff for special treatment structures, which in fact have been literally undisturbed. The JRC was never in favour of closed schools. It must be open. However, in order for special treatment structures to be open and, above all, safe, there must be several diagrams to ensure their uninterrupted operation. These diagrams don't guarantee them. What are the factors that affect the safe operation of the pandemic treatment structures? What should we take into account in drawing up a protocol ensuring health and safety conditions for both pupils and teachers and parents at a special school? First, the majority of pupils have underlying illnesses. Apart from students, many parents are unable - because of psychosocial factors - to manage situations either in terms of prevention, namely compliance with hygiene rules, or in terms of treatment for the disease when it occurs. Therefore, there should be special care and intervention plan, both for the school area and for the area where the child lives and operates after that. Secondly, a large part of the students have no verbal communication. It is very difficult for children to explain to us things like headache, pain in the aspiring or unwelling. Thirdly, teachers in a special education unit, since they have to be very close to children, are constantly exposed to pandemic. Many of them even belong to high-risk groups. In honor, as I said at the outset, they insist on providing their services by living, motivated by unselfish love for children who have problems. The students of these structures are transported daily by leased vehicles, sometimes by urban or suburban buses or by taxis, which, after leaving them at school, continue their journeys by noon, to return to pick them up. Apart from children, that is, a large number of people will use these vehicles during the day, creating conditions for two-way transmission of the virus. Moreover, some pupils of these schools in the afternoons attend creative employment programs with students from other special schools in private, municipal or public structures. So what has the government, the state, the state - say what you want - done to ensure conditions of health and safety? In our view, it has done nothing or at any rate - in order not to create any misunderstanding - it has not done everything it needs to be done. For example, in an alleged case of management of a suspected case, since the school unit then, in our view, the state should take the following steps: Firstly, there should be an EGE stadium visit to investigate with tests throughout the school population. The step should be made aware of the working conditions of the structure and in particular of the fact that it has to manage a large number of individuals belonging to the high-risk groups, which are at risk even for their lives. Secondly, tracking contacts and sites where the student has been active in the last 24 hours and measures to limit possible dispersal of them, for example, tests on individuals of the CRA structures that the student is going to, decontamination of spaces in the public transport facilities he uses. Thirdly, if it emerges from the dispersal tests, closure and quarantine in the premises where it was found. Fourthly, additional measures to support children's families with social workers, nurses, caregivers, among others, who will also be responsible for managing the health rehabilitation course in nursing establishments. Is there any of this or how many of it is there? In our view, the measures taken by the government are incomplete because, unfortunately, he is aware of the issue of special education, education and health, of course, as a cost, to a reasonable cost. Instead of the above, which is self-evident, in our view, both teachers and parents must claim self-evidently, in order to deal with the problem of pandemic as well, but also to take the subject of special education and education for these children the true place they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you too, Mr Synergy. Here, Mrs Zacharakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Covenant, we agree. Indeed, special treatment must have the special place it deserves, this position that is worthy of children who want special care. And I must tell you, Mr Syntagakis, that the appointments to special education and training were made to this government for the first time. The fact that we have finally moved forward and implemented the four and a half thousand appointments and teachers and specialist and assistant staff is indicative. You asked what the government has done. So I will answer to you what the government has done, but starting from what is very important, that we can now talk about appointed teachers and specialist staff, with which the child can cultivate a stable relationship, because it needs it, because this part of the change of people every year is a demanding thing for which the child is trouble and effort, and of course the teacher who is in front of him. Indicative figures, '1', four and a half thousand appointments, which will, of course, also be followed in general education. As the Minister has said many times, since 2021 and after 2022, significant moves have been made - and not just evidence - of care and care for special treatment. I would like to mention the number of alternates for Crete, from which you come anyway, and it is your region of election, Heraklion. In the Regional Directorate of Crete - indicative numbers - how many alternates were appointed, were they - to be precise - in 2018-2019? Thirty-three hundred fifty. In 2019-2020 with the Government of New Democracy: a thousand six hundred a year, a significant number and I do not have the special educational and assistant staff. So far, a thousand hundred and fifteen have been hired and I add to them and those appointed. In other words, we have already reached the thousands of five hundred alternates and permanent ones, and we are at the beginning of the year, with people at the moment when the gap has been made and when conditions are created, there will be conditions of replacement. The Minister came in September and here and the Greek Parliament voted over EUR 333 million to supplement what? To fill in the gaps of the vulnerable groups, because, Mr. Synthyakis, in answer to your question, our teachers get the permission of a special purpose, the license that they belong to a vulnerable group. We have too many teachers who are currently on leave, belonging to a vulnerable group. Some of them are helping online courses and others are at home, so that they are not in some state precarious in terms of their health. We have said a red line on the issue of the health of young and old, teachers and children. I mentioned the numbers and I think they are indicative, indicative of care and care for the subject of special treatment. I'm going to the building issue because it's very important. You know that we do not have the responsibility anyway of the school units, but that does not take away from our concern to have children in decent places, in places where the program may be unfolding, the skilled or the general classroom. I must tell you, therefore, that since the update we had from the CBYP, a representative has been appointed - after consultation with the Municipality of Heraklion - to the suitability committee and has started the architectural premeditation. I look forward to the supporting documents from the municipality, and I think we are at a good point, so that we can actually see the light on the tunnel, this positive perspective on the issue of housing, which is very important. Of course, in Crete we are dealing with various issues in various schools, but in contact with the Ministry of the Interior, with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the municipalities and local authorities, we will try - step by step - that is not done automatically and you know it or magically - to solve them. Anyway, the departments know they're a little bit of a special treatment. So all of these elements, the fact that they are small parts, have been taken by all the measures that have been presented to the Special Committee of Experts - the Subcommittee on Education at the Ministry, you know that, set up by the infectious - pneumonologists - they have made it possible to operate the special schools, by sending, as I said before, specific directives on what is going on in the case of special treatment, specific directives on the use of a mask, because, as you said, some children cannot carry the mask. However, these have been presented in detail, in detail, in committee and from there, the operation of the schools and the specific directives which have been sent to them have been adopted. And because you said you may not have given specific instructions for the rest of the functions, I mentioned before that it has been sent a circular for distance education with clear instructions for the development of ERCFs, but also for modern and asynchronous distance education, as I told you. The NSAs shall be supported by supply through technological equipment and modern psychometric and evaluation tools contests. Of course, there are also all the tools for accessibility, Mr Syntagakis, for books and all the other materials that our children need. For the first time, educational television has become accessible and signifiably and is very important. It is a start-up I must also tell you European leadership. As also, the Ministry of Education has made a significant contribution to the drafting of the National Action Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in matters of special education and integration. We are taking steps, Mr Syntagakis, and, of course, we are always in open dialogue with the citizens, so that we can discuss issues that may need to be improved. You said about the tests. I forgot to mention it. EVO already runs sample tests in special schools all over Greece. Over eleven sample checks have been carried out in schools. Fortunately, the evidence we receive from the EGE is hopeful. That doesn't give rise to reassurance. We are here to protect, as I said, small and large, but we would not risk - it is our red line - the safety of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mrs Zacharakis. We are returning to the normal flow of questions. I'd like to thank Mrs. Kerameau for agreeing to wait for you, Mr. Arseny. Also, Mrs. Keramemos, "knock up" has had introductorys for those who don't know about humor, right? Besides, you're one of those ministers that either rest a little or you don't rest at all. We go to the fourth with number 234/7-12-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Public IEK in the West of Athens: Illegal monitoring of telecommunications by directors". Mr Arseni, good morning, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for the flexibility. I have defended a hundred and fifty-eight times since the beginning of my election a year and a half ago. I have never been able to need this flexibility before, but thank you very much for today's flexibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u21	And never need it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. I should also like to thank Mrs Keramos and Mrs Zacharakis for coming to cover the gap. This is quite important and I hope we will find solutions here, Minister. We have complaints that arrive at my office and arrive at my office for the very simple reason that these people would be in danger of losing their place in the process of recruitment. So we have complaints that at IEK - and I am talking about the IEKs in western Athens, as well as the Second Piraeus and Athens, in the center - that they ask directors to send the addresses, the link between telecommunications, so that they can get in whenever they want to enter teleworking. It's something that's not predictable. We called the ministry. Some employees have told us that it is foreseen. We talked again closely and asked for the opinion of the Secretary-General, after they looked into it, that it is not foreseen. We want you to say publicly what is happening, we want you to commit publicly that you will check and you will stop this process. There is no legalized assessment system, as much as we know. The Secretary-General, at least oral from his office, told us that this is all illegal. We want your commitment to end this story. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, a big problem, because the IEKs are the places where the children of the poorest families go for the continuation of their education, at the moment we have complaints that these children, which are almost always connected to a mobile phone, of course, in teletext, often have no signal, must go on the road with their jackets to learn and too much is excluded. You have not taken any measures to protect the participation of children of public IEK in tele­vision. We're asking you to receive them and we want you to let us know, because they're taking away all the children they can't get involved, how many children so far have exceeded the absenteeism limit and they're losing their year. I would also like to conclude, Mr President, that we have the overtime issue, which is not covered in the IEKs, as is the question of the fact that for the first time this year the tables with molecules have not been posted, in the order of the candidates for training, and we would like to know why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Kerameos. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President, like you, Mr President, for the question. Colleague, you refer to complaints of immunity and analgesia in a series of IEKs. I would ask you warmly to give us concrete information, specific complaints and specific problems. Because you know, Mr Colleague, that, when you get to the House, simply anonymous complaints are unsubstantiated and present, then they only become part of a communication game, and I want to believe that all of us are going to solve any problems. Here we are, therefore, to hear, to obtain the specific information on complaints. I want to talk to you with certain details, Mr. President. As you know, every year there is a percentage of trainees who do not participate. Although they are enrolled, that is, do not take part in the courses at the IEK. So last year, the corresponding semester, this rate was at 21%. In last year's Winter Semester there were 21% absenteeism. This year we have televised, this has been reduced and it is 9%. So this shows us that not only has the leak not increased, as you say, but that participation in courses in the middle of a pandemic has increased. Again from 21% absenteeism, we have gone to 9%, a very hopeful message about the participation of the trainees in distance education. And this information, to be very specific, is derived from the information system "PGASOS". Of the approximately thirty-two thousand registered in public IEK of the Ministry of Education of all six months, absenteeism has been recorded - and I refer to absenteeism as a whole, to absences for any reason, it has nothing to do with pandemic - to 9.3% of the registered ones, when the corresponding absentees last year, again for any reason, were 21%. Now, in the case of those who cannot participate in the distance-to-distance procedures, individualized assistance is provided by each DIEK, e-mailing with the educational material, providing printed notes, awarding written works, delivery of the work to the DIEK, computer use located in the DIEK area, and telephone support, thus maintaining everyone involved in the training, without being absent. So I would like to hear in particular who these trainees, the trainees, who say they are excluded. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] You also say in your question - and I think it is important, but of course you call again anonymous complaints - that for the first time the tables with the molecules and order of the candidate trainers were not posted. The answer, Mr Colleague, is that of course all the information has been posted. And not only that, but for the first time this year a demand for many years has been made. An Electronic Register of Vocational Training Trainers was established, the operation of which began in August 2020, and is available to vocational training institutes and their trainers. The creation of this registry contributes significantly to modernising the system, avoiding the annual suffering of trainers, ensures faster procedures and more precision in selecting. Therefore, in order to answer your question clearly, the tables per DIEK, per specialty and lesson were posted on the digital platform of the registry, according to each instructor's statement and each instructor could see his rating order in each DIEK, specialty and course that he had declared. Under the terms of the Regulation on the Management of the Register of Vocational Training Trainers, the molecules are based on evaluation tables and trainers are classified in descending order per DIEC, specialty and lesson. I shall return to the other questions you have raised in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Kerameau. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, it is the Ministry's responsibility to establish, confirm and correct things when there is an illegality. It's not the workers' responsibility to make the complaint. Your responsibility is to have supervision and know what's going on. Here we bring you complaints that are nameless to me, with the name of director of education and the elements of school. So I bring you these complaints and you tell me that you don't examine them, because I didn't tell you what's the name of the man who says them, when there's a climate of fear and intimidation, and the next day these people might lose their jobs? If necessary, the complaints will be made surname. But at the moment you're being exposed personally. Do you promise this is illegal? Tell us, answer in public. Is it illegal for the director of the IEK to enter teleworking? Is it illegal for him to have the link and get in whenever he wants to enter tele-education and watch what's going on over there? And what do they do it for? Is there someone who does it to fill hours or to justify his work? Is he doing something illegal for that reason? Tell us what is going on, because to the percentage we know, the inspector's institution has been abolished by Law 1304/82. You also mentioned some general figures on participation and absenteeism. I specifically asked you what is happening in West Athens. Will you tell us what are the special numbers for western Athens? We do not only care about the average conditions. What is happening, Minister, in West Athens and in areas that have experienced long-term deterioration and are being hit most by the economic crisis of the coronary? Tell us the numbers. How many absenteeisms and how many children are in danger of losing their year in public IEK because of this non-support of their access to education, as you should have done? So I think that the issue remains and I will expect at least one clarification of your own whether it has the right of director to participate in telematics and a commitment that these phenomena, wherever they are observed, will stop. That is the essential thing we are discussing here. Does the law apply, Mrs. Kerameau? It is your responsibility to apply and I urge you to confirm that it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Madam Secretary, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there is a specific circular of the General Secretariat, which provides precisely the framework for distance education for the DIAKs. This provides, in particular, that the administration of the training structure attests the participation of trainers in the telematics process. I would like to tell you that we have contacted the Western Attica DIEKs that are specifically interested in you, with the DIEKs of the western sector in Athens and we have not received any complaints about the issues you mentioned. For example, there is no complaint or dissatisfaction at the ECJ. At the DIK of Saints Anargyros there is normally also the virtual modern classes, and there is also no complaint. At the DIK Peristeriou class is normally there too. The administration contacts those who are trained to find out whether they have technical or other problems and to inform them of the procedural issues. As regards the DIEC Agaleo, the addresses of the modern classes are notified to the MODLE platform, to be known to the trainees. And here there is absolutely no protest or complaint. That is why I told you, Mr Colleague, that we are here to resolve matters. But we have to have evidence. And the evidence I gave you about the participation is really noteworthy. We had 21% absenteeism last year, before the pandemic, and now we have only 9% absenteeisms throughout the country. This shows us precisely the increase in the participation of trainees in the country's public IEK in the middle of a pandemic. And this is something that is credited to the instructors, credited and trained for how the community was able to carry the lively educational process into the distance. You know, last night I had a very nice background discussion with trainees and managers in IEK and it was very nice how they really talked about how the whole process has been transferred, about the prospects, if you like, of being absorbed into the labour market, but also about the excellent work done at the DIKs, I would stress thanks to the instructors. Because all this is credited to our trainers, it is credited to our managers and trainees. I say this because, in five minutes' time, the debate in the committee responsible for Morphotics in the House begins, a bill which, for the first time perhaps, is going to see on a coherent basis the whole context of vocational education, training and lifelong learning. It will see coherently, in total, in order for there to be a national strategy for an area of education, which, for me, may be one of the most critical, precisely in order to serve as a tool for economic development in the country. It must become a real instrument of economic development, by a disparity that is today. We as a government will do everything we can to support this sector, with concrete projects and actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Kerameau. The fifth will now be discussed under number 239/12-2020 in the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - a Progressive Alliance Mr Haralambos (Hari) Mamulaki to the Prime Minister responsible for communication and information matters, Mr Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: "As a matter for the legality of the contracts concluded on the campaigns on the occasion of exceptional pandemic containment measures". Mr. Mamulaki, good morning. Here, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 14 March you legislated by an act of legislation, which you later adopted by law, the direct delegation of information services to the public in the context of actions to prevent the spread of the coronary. You also legislated with your joint authority with the Minister of Finance to regulate the details of this application by your decision. Indeed, a joint ministerial decision was adopted on 21 March, in the preamble to which you state that the expenditure incurred for the communication and information services of the citizens is estimated at EUR 20 million. In other words, the sum you shared in the media is EUR 20 million. Also, you have determined the information to be included in the draft communication campaign by the contracting company. On 26 March, therefore, you signed the contract of direct award with "INITIATIVE MEDIA S.A.", the remuneration of which was EUR 420,000. That remuneration goes far beyond the permitted limits laid down by the Law on direct awards. You, however, preferred to circumvent the existing public procurement legislation. The fact that you are legislating outside the framework has been confirmed both by the Communication of 1 April of the European Commission and by the Guidelines of 24/14 April 2020 of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority, the well-known EFSA, which I have in my possession and I will later present some further aspects of it. So I ask a question. On 1 October 2020 - it is my 10312511 question to you on this issue - you have answered that the time to vote on the legislative act takes precedence over this adoption of the directive. You conclude that at the time of the adoption of the provision and signature of the contract there was no confirmation by the European Commission and the competent NAIDISE that the provision in Article 32(2) of Law 4412/2016 could be used for the needs of a pandemic communication and information campaign. In other words, you told us that the government was justified in violating the institutional framework for public procurement because of the urgent nature of the pandemic treaty. Your answer, Mr Secretary-in-Office, I think that it really is an epitome, a monument of hypocrisy and a confession of smuggling public money. Why am I saying that? I say this because one month before your reply, at the end of September, you will, in fact, relegate the award of a contract for communication costs by means of the negotiation procedure, without prior publication. We are talking about a procedure that is de facto an immediate delegation. In particular, under Article 14 of Law 4728, your own law, you have enabled the provisions of paragraph 2 of Paragraph 2 of Law 4412/2016. In order not to get far, I shall close with the questions raised on the table. Firstly, why did you choose to legislate directly on these communication costs, despite the opposite view of the European Commission, but also of the established case-law? Secondly, how is it documented that cumulatively - and I stress this - the conditions of Article 32(2) of Law 4412/2016 for your legislation later on with Article 14 of Law 4728? I'm waiting for the answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. The Minister will answer the Prime Minister with responsibility for communication and information, Mr Stylianos Petsas. Mr. Pecha, good morning. Here, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since the first moment of the pandemic, this unpredictable exogenous and global crisis, the government has moved quickly and decisively in order to address both the health consequences and the economic consequences of this pandemic. The relatively good results of our country in relation to other countries, both in the first wave and in the second wave of pandemic, are due to individual responsibility, collective maturity, the discipline of the Greeks, the self-consciousness towards the common enemy and, of course, to the decisions of the Government following the recommendations of the experts. If you look at what you said, Mr Papoutsis, you will understand why we have chosen a different strategy in the first case, namely March, since the autumn. As you said, the procedure decided to follow in March was so urgent that we had to proceed with Articles 30 and 31 of the legislative act of 14 March 2020, which was ratified by Article 3 of Law 4682/2020, in this procedure. The Ministerial Decisions were adopted on 15 March, the first in the case of free messages, and on 20 March the second in the case of the professional campaign. These dates, as we all understand, are earlier than the European Commission's communication and guideline Directive 24 of the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority, which says that the case mentioned earlier by the Public Procurement Act could be used. I shall submit these to the Minutes. It is self-proof, therefore, that we could not know on 14 March that on 15 April a guideline would come for the Single Public Procurement Authority to tell us that we can use the No 4412 procedure. When we had this in our knowledge, we proceeded to the second phase with this procedure, which is excellent, but which is provided for in Law 4412 on public procurement. What did we do? We proceeded with the procedure, we have a contractor, we pass the deadline, so that the others, if they want to, submit their objections, and we proceed with tabling the file at the Court of Auditors, which will see exactly these conditions. So all the procedures have been done soon. In fact, I repeat that, as far as the March procedure is concerned, we could not know that something different could be proposed by the European Commission on 15 April. When we met, we proceeded to this process. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas, submits for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Pecha. Here, Mr Mamulaki, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I think it is obvious that you are not legislating to manage the extraordinary needs of the pandemic in our country. Legislation to serve specific interests and to serve and drunken your communication strategy. Mr. Undersecretary, your actions and the Greek Government in general prove this. They also demonstrate the view that you were unable to predict the exceptional circumstances or the exceptional measures you will take. The fact that you have taken this view, that you have not been able to predict for so many months since the pandemic began the needs that would have arisen for information to the citizens, is as if you were admitting your inadequacy. You are telling us that the choice of the procedure you made to provide services for citizens was a one-way road, and that the derogation from EU law was also a one-way road. The circumstances, Mr. Undersecretary, require seriousness. You are accountable for the way you manage public money. You cannot hide behind the phrase "extreme and unforeseen event" constantly and relentlessly to make direct assignments. Your answers are inadequate. If you'd run tests, you'd just stay in the same class. Every intelligent man cannot accept the way in which you justify your actions, the way in which you made use of public money and the priorities in the end and in all that you have put as government. Where should I start? Shall I begin with the monumental note that you did not have knowledge of the framework that the European Commission and EFSA would have had? Do you state any ignorance of the public procurement rules? Do you not know that Union law prevails under national law? Do you not know that when a provision derogates from national provisions, we refer to those that do not constitute a transposition of Union law? And Law 4412 is a transposition of Union law. Incidentally, Mr Karamanlis has brought into public debate the change in depth or part of this law, which is still in force and on which we are discussing it. I would now like to raise an issue relating to the second part. It is true that you are trying to substantiate the fact that the specific provision of Law 4412 falls within your intention and action. That's not what's happening, and it's not why? Because it does not act cumulatively, Mr. Undersecretary. And I say this in every sense. And why doesn't it act cumulatively? Because the urgency of the situation makes it impossible to comply with the general deadlines. A causal link between the unforeseen event and the urgency. All these issues have been mentioned in particular in its directives and, Mr President, I would like to make two minutes. It is the European Commission's guideline 24, which includes EFSA itself, of course, the European Commission's directive itself, which precedes time. There is, therefore, no justification for this, because the EASA refers to its directives. So what about the contract? For contracts above limits, it is firstly noted that the provisions of the European Directives, as incorporated into Law 4412, are applicable only. The Public Procurement Directives provide the Member States and public buyers with appropriate procedures and tools, as well as adequate choices and flexibility for the purchase of supplies, services and works needed to deal with the health crisis. The Commission's communication refers to the accelerated procedures and deadlines which you could use. As to the negotiation process, without prior publication, it is expressly stated that this should be the exception and not the rule. Didn't you have time to read these instructions carefully? I would therefore like to say, Mr President, for the second time, that the directives in question, both by the Euratom and by the Commission, are the specific directives. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Haris) Mamoulakis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In conclusion, I am sorry to see that the rules for many do not apply to the few. And this is not only done with your signatures, but also with the agreement of your own, but also with the whole government staff. You are not aware of the situation, that is obvious. The results of your policy have disastrous consequences for society, for the economy, for health and education. Recently in national matters, where no sanctions have taken place. The figures are therefore speaking for themselves, although you are making every effort - I really accept that - to hide your communication issues and, of course, to serve your strategy, hence direct awards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr Mamulaki. Mr. Pecha, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I'm really surprised, Mr. Mamulaki. If you had taken some time to read what we have written, you would not have tabled what I have just tabled, which demonstrates that both the Commission communication and the 24 opinion delivered by the Public Procurement Authority are later than the legislative act of 14 March. How do we do it? April 1st and April 15th are later. So what's your argument? What could we have used? Something we did not know that the European Commission would take a decision on this? For there to be legal certainty, for everyone to be aware, we have proceeded to the act of legislative content, we have then ratified the act of legislative content by Parliament. So what you're saying doesn't have any basis. As far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, it has to do with the Ministry of Development as an expedited Ministry and not with other ministries and it will soon come to the House to be updated on the basis of modern conditions. As to whether the criteria are cumulative, I think the answer itself is the development of the pandemic, the second very large wave, its unpredictable escalation and the fact that we had to take measures, such as a universal lockdown, not only in Greece, but also in many other countries of Europe. As far as other matters are concerned, the Court of Auditors will judge them with the file before we move to the second campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Pecha. That's what I want in time. Thank you both very much. Have a good time. I have the honour to announce to the House the Minister of Justice, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 10-12-2020: a) Criminal case law concerning the Minister of Health Kingdom of Kikilia and the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Nikolao Hardalia, b) Criminal case law concerning the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Nikolaos Chardalia and c) Criminal case law concerning the State Secretary of Interior Theodoros Livani. We move on to the second debate under No 220/12-20 of a topical question from MP B1's North Athens Section of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Procedure for payment of compensation due to the state of need, as a result of the theoremia, to the Municipality of Heraklion Crete". Mr. Loverdo, good morning! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u38	New Heraklion Attica, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u39	Attica! "New" doesn't have it. He only has 'Hracalio'. I apologize to the New Heraklion Attica. And I say: is Mr. Loverdos talking about Crete and Mr. Kegeroglu didn't come here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u40	And I was hoping he'd refer to Crete!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u41	It is therefore the second question under number 220/12-20 of the first cycle of MP B1' North Athens of the Movement of Change Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Procedure for payment of compensation due to the state of emergency, as a result of the theoremia, to the Municipality of Heraklion Attica”.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u42	Good morning, Mr. President. I'm not breaking the Rules of Procedure. I know him very well. You will forgive my speech on a very important matter concerning the country, and I will address the Minister for thirty seconds before I have developed my timely question. Minister, all Greece, all citizens, the Greeks, the Greeks, we are very dissatisfied with developments in the European Council. Very unpleasant! In 2009-2010 we suffered the procrastination of Chancellor Merkel. In 2015, Europe paid its immigration policy and 2020, destructed by Turkey, has no obstacle in Europe. The whole government and your Members from October to now have been told that the summit will give some solutions in December. In the channels, in fact, you are hosted by your MPs who speak as transnationalists, as if they were not politicians, as if I were going out to talk about the interpretation of the Constitution, supposedly experts. Everyone has said that December will come, where the European Union will play its real, essential role. Nothing. What's finally left of all this four months of tension? The violation of our sovereign rights and the "rooting" of areas, the marking of areas. That's what's left, unfortunately. As far as my question is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u43	Good. I don't think you'd expect an answer to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u44	I do not want any answer, Mr President. I had to practice my duties as my conscience...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u45	I understand how you said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u46	My question is very specific. I'm not taking any time. New Heraklion Attica, Mayor Mr. Baballos. Galatica Attica, Mayor Mr. Markopoulos. New Ionia Attica, Mayor Mrs Thomas. The regions affected have not yet been delimited for compensation. I know it is unfair to criticise you, Mr Karamanlis, as Minister of Infrastructure, but I must address my criticism somewhere too! Mr. Theodorikos declares unauthorized. Who's in charge? The affected areas are still not delimited to compensate people! Of course, rich statements in the next few days from that tornado that destroyed people, destroyed property. Nothing yet, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Karamanlis, good morning! You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, thank you, first of all. Minister, Mr Loverdos, I respect your role as a parliamentary representative. The question for Greek-Turkish will be to address it to Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u49	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u50	I will tell you something, however, with all due respect for her faction and history: KINAL and PASOK are good not to talk about 'rooting', because I remember, you know, in 1996. It is a good thing, then, that we are not confronted with controversy on national issues. In any case, I am sure that the Minister responsible, Mr Denkias, will be able to explain, if you wish, to you in a timely question what happened at the European Council. Now let's go to the pedestrians, if you want, but equally important, of everyday life. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Loverdo for his question, because I imagine that he has an interest in it. I think you will have seen, Mr Loverdos, that recently, with the theories we have throughout Greece, the government and the ministries have actually presented a mobility and, if you will, in my dentistry, I will mention what the exceptional legislative measures and the extraordinary policies we take to facilitate the procedures of one - the truth is - a multitude of state, which often creates delays. The Ministry of Infrastructure, whenever a natural disaster occurs, not only now but also before, has an excellent service, the Natural Disaster Directorate, and immediately sends a lot of engineers to assist the regions. The delimitation, Mr Loverdos, of the areas in which the compensation is granted is provided for by a multi-level procedure. That is what you have been dealing with, after all, because you have asked your question to the Ministry of the Interior and I finally answer it. It involves both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Interior and you give me the opportunity to explain the procedure. In order for the relevant department of the Ministry of Infrastructure to examine the possibility of demarcating the affected areas, in order to finally give and initiate the procedure for compensation, the region should first of all notify us in writing of the incident. The region then sends a request to the Ministry of Infrastructure for demarcation of the affected area, which is almost always accepted, together with a number of documents. I won't tire you with this, but I can, if you like, explain to you the whole process. The initial check for which area has been affected is then carried out by the municipalities and the region, with the assistance - if necessary - of Evia or Carditsa, the central administration, for example. Because, when the engineers of the municipalities and regions are not there, the Ministry of Infrastructure often comes and helps. It is therefore clear that there are three levels of cooperation: the municipality, the district and the central government. I would be very pleased to inform you of the stage of the process involving the Ministry of Interior, if you wish. Let me now reply to your question, Mr President, because I think that this question is a very complex one, but it is necessary to do so. At the moment, Mr Loverdos, we have not received a request from the region. We have been informed by the region that he has told the municipalities, he has been to the municipalities and has asked them to give them all the relevant documents since October. At the moment, however, there is still no request for us. I am sure that the region as well as we are pushing the municipalities to do this very quickly, to submit the necessary documents to our services so that the region can finally be demarcated, so that the central administration can start doing what it needs to do, that is to say, to get into a process to give all the compensation to the people who deserve these compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u52	Before I came to the Hall, I spoke to the Mayor of New Heraklion, Mr. Nikos Baballo. I was assured that both Mrs Thomas and Mr Markopoulos and Mr Baballos have done all the procedures for addressing the region. All of them! What the municipalities had to do, Mr President, has been done by the three mayors of the affected areas. One of the prisoners. Second detainee: A few days ago some district services went to the Municipality of Neos Heraklion, did not delimit. It's October 13th that we count. Am I counting politics now? It's of little importance. But the other guy counts, who destroyed his house, who's hurt. He counts. In Athens, Mr. President, in Athens? From a tornado? From a tornado. Some climate change phenomena are ringing here, and it's not ringing here. But some people were badly damaged, too, we had three injured. Inside Athens, with the district director's offices here, with the government here? I don't know, raise hands. Hands up. The municipalities, therefore, assure me that Mr Baballos has done the necessary procedures. One of the prisoners. The district didn't move. That is why I said that my criticism is not addressed to Mr Karamanlis. Thirdly, if there is no regional demarcation, there can be no compensation, and that is very serious. Fourthly, they are being informed by the mayors - I do not know now where - which people are interested in - that it is the legislation that has been implemented at the time when we had the floods. I don't know if it's from Mandra, I guess it's from that time. She does not, of course, for you to restore to a house a tent that has been destroyed. Are you gonna tell me about a tent you're talking to me? Yeah, if you get 800 euros a month, I'm talking about a tent, of course I'm talking to you. So when you're going to deal with flooding issues, now with the tents is not so relevant. But here we have tornadoes. So all the people in their balconies were destroyed. Not even that, he says, will be compensated. Now we're good at it? It's two months, it's two months, two months in Athens. I really raise my hands, Mr President. My question makes sense, not me, to hear - that is not what this is saying - that the competent authorities should be mobilised, that they should do their job, that people should take no euros. Not to stress the context in which all of us and them live there. Well, be not at the mercy of any force majesty, any physical phenomenon, but be as a human and under the cover of the state, which too easily can help you. It can't be easy here. That is why I ask you, Mr President, to understand that. In closing, Minister, a word I will say is not part of my question, but it is very timely. Minister, now with e-shopping the role of couriers is very serious. You know, a book you send, a book you're waiting or a product you're waiting for, and you're making seven, ten, fifteen days, they're late. Do you have any chance of interfering?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos. You're right, you're waiting for a book and the second edition comes first. Mr Karamanlis, we have put the voices on you today, which is not your responsibility. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u54	The courier, Mr. Loverdos, has the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Digital Policy, because the ELTAs, while they were back in the Ministry of Infrastructure, have gone there. But what I can certainly say is that Mr Pierracakis - who does an excellent job in many fields and tries all of our ministers and ministries, who are a little back, to bring us into the digital age - presented a modernisation programme to the Ministerial Council two weeks ago, which was truly impressive for the ELTAs. Therefore, as on the issues of Ankara and Turkey, I would like to refer you to Mr Dendia, on the issues of courier, perhaps Mr Georgiadis and Mr Pierracakis should speak. Because, you know, I have a tendency not to speak at all and to get involved in the feet of other colleagues of Ministers. Your criticism, Mr Loverdos, is a criticism which we listen very carefully to. You're a very experienced politician, and I think you've taken the matter right where it is. Because you are absolutely right, citizens do not care if the municipality, the district or the central government has responsibility for it. Citizens see us as a state and tell you many times 'Where is the state?' However, the procedures following the Callicratic Law in 2011 and the logic of decentralisation, whether well or bad, give several powers and several responsibilities to both municipalities and regions. This is not the first time that in cases of natural disasters we are facing, we who have the honour to lead the ministries, a diffusion of responsibilities, one throws the ball to the other. So here I am replying directly to you that I understand what you are saying as critical and well-founded criticism. The government also takes it as a valid criticism and we will deal with this issue so that we can contact the region again, contact the mayors myself - I know which areas have been affected - so that we can see how we can start this process quickly. However, I will tell you that the Government and the Ministry of Infrastructure in the last two disasters that have been made, the much larger, much larger than in the western Attica - and I am talking about both Cardiff and Evia - has really done superhuman efforts to give relief to those affected. Because, apart from the process of housing aid, which is being delayed, what we - and it was, I think, pioneering - was that we gave, Mr Loverdo, both in Evia, which was a great disaster, as well as in Karditsa, a one-off payment of EUR 5,000 for owners and tenants of buildings, that is, 8 000 euros for each operation to cope with the process very quickly, without needing a simple request on the website of gov.gr or on JEPs. Of all the applications made very quickly, people were compensated. In the case of the Western Attica, this was not the case, first of all, because it was not the disasters that were so great and, secondly, because there was indeed a delay in the whole process, which you described. I therefore reserve my backing and contact again with the relevant departments in the region and with the municipalities, so that we can put an end to this issue. Because, as you quite rightly said, the delays, especially at that time which are very difficult, create problems for the citizens and ultimately the citizens see an overall state and do not make the distinction that we are making here, because this is our duty, between municipalities, regions and central government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Minister. We are now moving to the ninth with number 229/12-2020 appropriate question for a second question from the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change, Michalis Katrin, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Timetable of work of the "Patras - Tower" and the inclusion of "Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli" in the Recovery Fund". Mr. Katrin, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, almost six months ago, at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade on 16 June, you informed us that you sent us an official request to the European Commission to reincorporate the Patras - Tower motorway into the concession agreement on the Olympian road. You have informed us that you are expecting approval from three directorates-general: the Directorate-General for Regional Policy, which was first given, the Directorate-General for the Internal Market, which, if I am not mistaken, was given last month and the Directorate-General for Competition, which is still pending. Some estimate that the last authorisation procedure can last for up to six months, without sure there will be no comments, such as - I quote something written in the press - with the internal level of performance of the project or issues that may arise with the concessionaire itself. Despite your intention, as you told us at the meeting, to start work in the first quarter of 2021, this now seems very difficult before the end of the first half of the year, in a work that the public and the European Commission will take to EUR 224 million and the consortium will reach EUR 80 million. Considering that at least thirty-six months will be required to complete the project from the start of the work, at best we reach the end of 2024 or the beginning of 2025 to deliver the project to the inhabitants of Elijah and Achaea. At our same meeting you said that there are work to improve the existing network with a total budget of EUR 30 million, but, if I am not mistaken, they have not yet started. It's unknown when they'll start. In fact, the district manager himself in a post of the local newspaper "Patrish" Pyrgos said it would be auctioned by the end of 2020. Finally, the proposals sent by the Government for infrastructure projects to be financed by the Recovery Fund have not included the Ancient Olympia - Byzantine - Tripoli road, a project that you know will link Elia and Olympia to the main routes of the Peloponnese, with obvious development over the wider region. Two questions, Minister: What is your final assessment of the timetable for the start of work on the Patras - Tower motorway, after how long will it be completed and when do you think it will be possible to start work on improving the existing road network? That is the first question. The second question is whether it is your intention to incorporate the road axis Ancient Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli into the projects that will be financed from the resources of the Recovery Fund. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for your question. I won't waste any time telling you what we received. These are, after all, millenniums. We have recognized them as New Democracy too. You've recognized them as KINAL too. I will tell you what we have done, therefore, because what is of interest to the citizens is not what we received seventeen months ago, but what we did. As you quite rightly said, we have come in touch with the so-called DG REGIO, the Directorate-General for Regional Development, and we have succeeded in changing the attitude of the Commission on the possibility of financing the Patras tower project after 2023. I would like to remind you that, on the basis of the European Commission's previous position - and I have tabled to the committee, where we have again been able to discuss the committee's documents proving this - which, as the salinification of the work had taken place in eight contractors, the eligibility period for expenditure would expire in 2023. What does that mean? For those who listen to us to understand it. In essence, all the costs of the project would be borne by national resources. In other words, if the project were not completed by 2024, we would have the risk of suffering what we call financial correction, of returning all the money back to the European Commission. So the first thing a government had to do and a ministry was to make the bridge. As I have said quite rightly, we have achieved this. It was very important. We did it quite easily, because we did not have SYRIZA's ideas. We understand that Europe does not want to split up and cancel the competition. What did we do next? We took a big risk, which took us out. We took a risk and said that the quickest way to make the project is to go where it was. That is, before 2015, in 2013, in the Olympic Street. This, however, wanted the approval of another Directorate-General, and of DG REGIO and DG GROW, to accept, in short, that the road is back where it was originally, namely the concession agreement. That's what happened. We got the approval. The truth is that the procedures have kept more than we had anticipated. This has happened because of COVID and because of European bureaucracy, which is impressively problematic many times, I would say. Our aim now is to start work as soon as possible. How's that gonna happen? We have been to DG COMP and we are waiting for an answer in the next six months, so that the achievement of the operational use of the Midigli-Netherlands section has been completed on 29 September 2024 - I give you the timetable we now have as services -, the complete completion of the work, that is, all the parallel routes have been achieved on 31 October 2024 and the achievement of the operational use of the motorway in the Lower Achaia-Pyrgos section, which is the most problematic, on 31 March 2023. The aim is to complete all the work on 30 June 2024. This presupposes that within a period of six months we will have received the approval of DG COMP. We hope that our timetable is clear and we hope that the Commission will also follow these reasonable timetables. I want to respond very quickly to road safety projects. You're absolutely right. I think we did something unprecedented about the area. As I told you from the timetables, we will have at least three more years to get a first completion of the project, that is, in 2023. But what do we do until then? Will a favoured state, a member of the European Union, tolerate so many victims? Oh, no. We will make 30 million interventions, because this motorway is one of the most dangerous roads. Mr. Katrinis is in the process of dealing with Elias. He lives there. He knows that better than I do. But I've been to the area many times too. It's too big straight. It's not a closed highway and it has many entrances to the right and left. So there we will make 30 million interventions. The study process is now complete. The study was needed, because this is the process of Law 4412 and the project will start until the first half of 2021. And there we have a slight delay, because of COVID -19 and because of all the necessary procedures. At least I assure you that the tender will be made quickly and I assure you that, because these work is relatively rapid and easy, they will become very quickly, so that we do not have the phenomena we have, we mourn human lives in 2020, 2021, in an area that has mourned, I think you know that - Mr Katrinis better than me - many human victims. But here too many decades ago, Mr Katrin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Katrin, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I consider it very important that the Minister came to Parliament today and gave a clear timetable for both the part of the Lower Achaia - Tower, which concerns Elias, but also the part of the Midigli - Lower Achaia, because he agrees that, if the motorway is not completed, there is no motorway. Some people probably thought this could be done some years ago. I leave with the assessment - a commitment from the Minister that by October 2024 the motorway will be completed. This is an optimistic and pleasant thing. I hope that the bureaucracy of the European Commission does not create any further delays. On the other hand, Minister, I cannot say that I am also satisfied with the issue of projects to improve the existing network. I understand they're going backwards. I don't know if they can accelerate. It is precisely because you understand that this road is a real carnival to answer. The citizens of Elijah and Achaea are struggling for when the road will end - we got an answer - and when the existing network will improve. Because you referred to this, Minister, according to the figures of Trojana from 2015 to August 2020, there have been a hundred and twenty-nine traffic accidents, of which fifty-one were deadly. From 2015 to August 2020. There are obviously - I have said it publicly, I repeat it here today, in the temple of democracy - time-consuming and intergroup responsibilities for not completing the work of all governments, from 2007 until today. That's the reality. The responsibilities of the previous government with the eight contractors are very great. Of course, Mr Minister, eighteen months have now passed and the responsibilities are beginning to burden your own backs. You understand that. You did not reply to me about the Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli, a project that has been under way for years. It has more studies prepared and requires some update and supplementation. It is a project estimated to cost around EUR 200 million. It is the Lagada bypass, which lacks environmental authorisations and final financial tables. The section "Loutros Loutras Louvres - Louvre" - where there are final studies of road construction, plumbing and pre-study techniques and shortening the final technical studies, need some improvements, possibly new engraving - belongs to the trans-European road network. So it is now necessary to fund a final study of technical projects in the third section and to draw up - I imagine - a cost-benefit study on sustainability. The question is whether time is there, but if there is also a political will from the government to integrate this project, the very important to Elias, Arcadia and the Peloponnese, into the works of the Recovery Fund, in which I already see various projects, such as the bypass of Chalkida, the Ioannina-Cacavia section, the northern part of E65, the part of the BOAK of Hersonissos in Kissamos, and three extensions of the Attica road, have been included. What do we say? It is also a request from the Municipality of Ancient Olympia and the Municipality of Gortynia. We're talking about joining this project. I think this is the way the Peloponnese and Western Greece are linked and integrated by road and transport. The region of Ancient Olympia is given the opportunity to upgrade. I think that, together with the completion of the Olympian road, the Elians will now enjoy modern European networks, safely, which will give greater impetus and development to their region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine. Three minutes and you, Minister, although you have said everything in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u62	Mr Katrin, I should like to go back to the Patras tower for half a minute and say that I fully understand the pressure exerted on the local parliamentarians for a project which - indeed - Mr Katrinis is right - is like the bridge of Arta. Talked since 2007. I think, however, that criticism for 2015 is decisive. Because the Government of New Democracy - KINAL in 2012-2015 had found funding from the NSRP and had started the process of auctioning the project as a public project. The money's gone then. I explained to you that by 2023 that money was. SYRIZA came in, broke the work and made two years to auction it. We took a step forward. We have said from the outset that this process is time-consuming and difficult. But now, Mr Katrin, it is not a question of whether the road will be taken. It's coming when the road is going to go. I think it will be a very big change and success of the country, not just of the government. Now we're going to the issue of the Olympian Bytina - Tripoli. Mr. Katrinis is right. Olympia Street is called Olympia Street and must reach Olympia. Isn't that the logic? Otherwise, why did we call it 'Olympia Road'? But here you are talking about another project, which I know well, because of my mother's origin from Levidi. It's also a request from the Arcadia Prefecture, not just the Elijah Prefecture. I am talking about the lagadia bypass, 20 km, with estimated cost of EUR 95 million plus VAT and the second part of Louvre and the airport bypass, seventeen and a half kilometres, cost of EUR 130 million. So we're talking about a project that exceeds 200 million. I want to be honest with you, as I think I'm always trying to be in this Chamber. We have examined the possibility of lending the project from the European Investment Bank. The cost-benefit study, the so-called NGO, was commissioned to carry out the measurements of the traffic load. Based on the evidence obtained, we have extremely low sustainability indicators, and so the European Investment Bank has excluded us from financing the project. You said about the Recovery Fund. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, the list of projects is currently not closed. What we are reading is interesting, but it is a constant negotiation. What I can tell you is that many road projects will not enter the Recovery Fund, not because we do not want us, but because Europe has simply given a very specific framework: these projects should be environmentally friendly, these should be digitisation projects. As you know, in recent years, unfortunately for our country, road projects have been projects that are not considered environmentally friendly. The European Union, if you like, has a stand to reject them. Nevertheless, I can tell you that what we believe can rekindle the interest of this project, and I will explain to you what we are doing. First of all, it is lacking, especially for the bypass of seven kilometres, for the final study of techniques. So what do we do now? With the amendment of No 4412 this study will not be necessary in order to move forward. So that's very important. However, we must address the low burdens and these problems. We have contacted Mr. Nika to see whether a piece of this project can join the Region's MAGP. I would remind you here, Mr Katrin, and I agree with you that this work is very important for the region. Unfortunately, the burdens are small. So it is not easy to approve from European funds. But we're fighting it. It's very important, because Ancient Olympia has another dimension, I think. Ancient Olympia has a dimension that our Europeans must once understand. That's what we'll fight for. What I can tell you, however, is that we are in agreement with Mr. Nika, to see if we can help bring this project in, at least, a piece of it into the region. You will agree with me, although I may be sad at some of your neighbors and their friends in Arcadia, that this is not what we call a 'national project'. I don't degrade it. But we have now entered a process that the Ministry has to deal with the major projects of national importance. The other projects must be dealt with by the Region, but always with the assistance of the central administration. I therefore think that in one part the Region can make its effort with the assistance of the Ministry to integrate this project into the MAGP and we can see whether we can convince Europeans that this project is important, not just for economics reasons, that is to say, 'we don't have the burdens, we don't make the road'. In fact, the Greek state at the moment - and quite rightly so - has not made a quadruple road there. It has made a safe road, what Europeans say is 'express motorway', a road which can - I think - be financed. But right now, we don't have any younger ones. We went to the European Investment Bank and they told us that we would not finance it and we are looking for other forms of funding. Because, I will agree with you, this work is a very, very important road for the wider region and for the Prefectures of Elias and Arcadia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you too, Minister. Thank you both. Have a good time. We continue with the third, with No 236/7-12-2020, a topical question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Support measures for seasonal workers in 12 months' operation at the airports of Chania and Heraklion, tour operator, tourist offices, car rental offices, handling, security, cleanliness etc. of the Republic of Crete.’ Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have had this debate before in the middle of the first wave of pandemic in April. We are returning, however, because the situation is deteriorating for the workforce in Crete, but also in many areas of the country, in the tourism sector - foodism, which, as we all understand, is the main source of survival of these workers. They are unable to pay rents, loans, bills, taxes, to cope with basic expenses and, of course, they have forgotten every case of warming their homes in winter. They are actually on the air and are on the way to survival in the next few months, but of course also to return to work next summer. The measures you have announced have left out, unprepared and without income, the seasonal workers and the elastics involved in tourism - foodism. In this difficult period after the second lockdown, the seasonal workers in 12-month-old operations at Heraklion Airports, Chania - and I refer to commercial, food shops, duty free, tour operator, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators, tour operators and to many other specialities - are in an even more shameful position, as OAED rejected their applications for unemployment subsidy. The government regulation, which reduces to fifty the trademarks required for the grant of unemployment benefit to seasonal workers, does not apply in their own case. They therefore remain without an allowance, especially this year, because companies in these categories continue to operate in the winter season and maintain employment relationships with workers of more than 25% of those employed during the tourist season, so that they do not qualify as seasonal and that workers in the summer season need a hundred and twenty-five times to join the regular unemployment subsidy, which, in particular, this year, in conditions of pandemic and of limited season, is impossible. In addition, there is no possibility for unilateral submission of responsible statements by the employees of the company to receive special purpose compensation through the ‘ERGAN’. There are also workers who are employed as seasonal workers in the companies I mentioned earlier, who have not taken on this season at all and who are not entitled to the seasonal allowance or the special purpose allowances. So we ask you, Minister: What urgent measures do you intend to take as a government, so that seasonal workers can join operations of 12 months of operation at Chania and Heraklion airports - and at other airports in the country, of course - in the seasonal unemployment benefit, without conditions and conditions? Secondly, the allowance should be extended over time until they are re-employed. Thirdly, the possibility of making responsible statements for receiving special-purpose compensation to all seasonal workers, without conditions and conditions. Fourthly, all unemployed, regardless of their nationality, should join the unemployment benefit. Fifthly, abolish the legislation setting the four hundred-day grant deadline for accession to the Unemployment Fund for the last four years. Ensure their insurance capacity and their own and children for 2021, whether or not they complete the required number of articles this year. Sixth, the Christmas gift should be given to the full and on time. Seventhly, all the payments made to the public sector, banks, electricity, water and telecommunications should be suspended for all the above workers. And finally, to stop the auctions and seizures, the orders to shut down electricity, water, mobile fixed telephony, and to reduce the rent as envisaged. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, good morning. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Colleague, just about seven days ago in this Chamber I had the opportunity to answer the topical question of the Communist Party of Greece, a topical question which, at the heart of its questions, raised exactly the questions you have just asked me. I think this debate has been exhausted. For my part, not only have there been sufficient data on what we are doing as a government throughout the entire period, not only has it been confirmed by international houses, world-famous economists, by the European Commission itself, that the policy pursued here in Greece by the three productive ministries, by the government as a whole, is the most effective one in Europe, but at the closure of my position, in my dentistry, I have asked a simple question. You bring in a torrent of demands, unaccounted for, and I asked you a question: Do you know how much this costs? Where will this money come from and who will pay for it? That was not answered by you. This Maximalist approach, to make good towards the workers, let me tell you that it does not pass or convince, because there is no money parked somewhere that we do not give. We are doing everything we can to support all the workers and, it seems, we have achieved a large part - overwhelming part - of the workers and the unemployed to be covered. In particular, you are giving me the opportunity to tell you that today in a speedy way, although it has never been within the competence of the Ministry of Labour to become a body to pay money - it was the Ministry which has other responsibilities and other actions - we managed with the 'ERGANI' - which was created in 2013, I say this again, for other reasons, to make the electronic shield of workers, which was actually done and to unload administrative costs and burdens on OAED and succeeded in getting the great burden of supporting workers. Indeed, Mr Syntagakis, I am pleased to say that since this afternoon, the accounts of workers who are suspended for the month of November, the so-called 'octacosari', will be paid for the money they represent. First of all, we have given the money for the closed operations in November. That's what's been given. Today, then, we have been ready since this afternoon to pay EUR 251 668 000 to four hundred five thousand three hundred sixty-five beneficiaries. The total amount for the month of November that we gave as a Ministry of Labour for suspensions totalling EUR 43.975 000 in sixty-four thousand eight hundred seventy-seven and seventy-one workers. This was given only for the month of November with the current payment. However, I would like to make three points, which are important. In the first payment of the closed business there were some protests from workers that they did not get their money. And it was right because it relates to fourteen thousand seventeen hundred thirty-six cases where submissions of the request were wrong. They were given the opportunity, through their accountants, to make corrections. They were workers and business errors and were corrected, through accountants, they were submitted and paid for this payment, today, these workers. There are two other charges. A number of twenty-three thousand eighty-sixty-six employees, who, while belonging to closed or affected enterprises, did not, as they should, submit the request to take the money. These twenty-three thousand eighty-sixty-six, then, workers who today will not see the money in their account or tomorrow, tomorrow, until Monday, Tuesday, will be able, because the 'ERGANIS' system will be open to submit the application so that we can give them the money. There are nine thousand and six hundred employees who appear in the system of multiple employment - that is to say, full and partial - in many businesses, for which there is a re-control and the money will be given in December, after a full cross-check has been carried out. Overall, Mr President, since the beginning of the crisis up to November - let us see the figures - they have been given by the Ministry of Labour, through the 'ERGANI' system, 2,520.005.028,88 euros in three million four hundred twenty-seven thousand seven hundred right-holders and eighty-five thousand six hundred five businesses. That's what we're doing. That's what we're trying to do. I don't want to say, because the time of my dentistry has passed, and I want to say the elements of the OAED. But I will also speak more specifically about Crete, because it is worth seeing at regional level and at the counties level - Heraklion, Lassithi, Chania and Rethymnon - how they gave and how these payments were used by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u68	Minister, the topical question tabled by the Communist Party of Greece and discussed here in the Chamber was completely in line with the problems faced by workers and the need for a rapid solution to their problems. A debate is never exhausted when problems are not solved. On the contrary, they're swelling. So we are coming back today and we will come back every time. Mostly within the movement fights the JRC and the class trade union movement, so that they make their property the struggle to claim all of which they really are entitled. So it's not a pillowing thing we're telling you. So, is the modern demands of workers to live with dignity, have a stable job, have social security, receive unemployment benefit, as required, so that they can live in elementary dignity? Is that a pillow? Is it minimalism what you say, which is fully in line with the European Union's policy? I have raised a number of issues concerning seasonal workers at airports and airport services. You have not, however, answered the substance of this. Make selective placement, creating a impression that you have given billions to cover the workers. We raised very specific issues: Why are these workers excluded from the poor seasonal allowance? One of the prisoners. I am referring to these specific workers. Why is the government regulation that reduces to fifty the social security charges required for granting an unemployment benefit does not apply in their own case? You're gonna have to tell us that. Why did the OAED reject them in their application? Why do they not meet the requirements of seasonality? These questions, Mr Minister, which I have put to the protagonists are the demands of the workers. And the JRC agrees and should bring them to the Chamber and should make them a farm for the workers in their struggle. That is the reality, Minister. In fact, what they claim is the minimum and minimum measures necessary to protect them. What you said, that you will give from today, and so on, is the minimum and not all workers. That's the reality. These people deserve much more, because they have spit blood, under adverse working conditions of employers' pressure, terrorism, circumvention of daily working time, with many different working relationships and with hunger wages literally. You're systematically ignoring them. But you are not ignoring the business groups. And because you ask us every time "where you will find the money, you do not cost what you say", so let us see how easy you have given the funding from the money of the Greek people, from the sweat of the Greek people to "AEGEAN". Twice state funding to unleash it. Where do you find to give the midwifes to gigantic TV clubs through takeovers and mergers? Where do pharmaceutical companies find and treasure pandemic conditions? With clawback gifts, 200m euros will stay in their funds from the clawback netting for 2020 vaccines. In 2019, sales of medicinal products increased. Their profits were high at nearly EUR 2 billion compared to last year. And more than EUR 200 million are being invested, and in three years' time, 600 million will be reached. And you are now talking about tourism, the engine of the economy, without telling us about whom, however. Acts show that it will be for the few, constantly giving privileges to large-scale and minimal crustaceans to the workers. And are they so poor things after all? That is, all they didn't ask for is a fund-raiser on their behalf, the ones whose pockets have filled up all the previous years. They have not paid up from the pandemic authorities until now, and have not paid 1 euros for wages and insurance contributions. They employed those workers they wanted, whenever they wanted. They have been subsidised and subsidised by millions, and they are responsible with the Government for opening up tourism, without any measures to protect and protect workers and customers, of course. And because you will tell us in your dentistry - you say it every time, it is your cassette, press the button and say it - what happened in the former socialist countries - to prevent you, that is, nothing else -, I will say that what happened was one of the biggest sports. Since 1917, universal social security has been guaranteed for all, public, free education, health. Eight hours and a half have been established, when you are today abolishing the eighth hour and imposing the tenth hour's work, seven days a week, abolishing Sunday's holiday. A pension in fifty-five for women and sixty for men was there. And you take it to sixty-two and sixty-seven years. And let's see where it goes. So let's see the sizes. Do you want us to put them in the balance, see what conquests the workers in these countries had so many decades ago, and what is the situation of the workers today in conditions of the barbarity of capitalism? So that's the reality. We urge you immediately to resolve the problems of these workers. After a few months, we have the new season. What about these workers? It's winter coming. Will they warm up? They're gonna put oil in their house? Will they get Christmas presents to their children now? Will they have to put on New Year's Night and pass as they should pass, with dignity? Give an answer to these issues that concern workers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Look, it is challenging to hear all this magic paradise - and for those who are watching us - described by the Communist Party's colleague for the socialist countries. It has just read a list of the bliss and high standard of living of workers, people and citizens in the former communist countries. You mentioned to me just now, Mr Synergyaki, by prejudicing the question I keep asking you - in which country in the world there is this - which is nowhere to be described - and you have described it to me. And since that is the case, Mr Colleague of the Communist Party, I now ask the question: Since they were so beautifully shaped and magically made and all were happy, because they were overthrown by the workers themselves and the citizens of this framework of operation of the state. Why? Workers and citizens have overthrown communism!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u71	It wasn't done by the workers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u72	That's what happened! Because they lived in a suffocating environment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u73	You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Symphony, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u75	Okay, now what you're doing isn't right. I heard you with respect. Can't you hear the opposite view of the JRC? What can we do now? Has workers and citizens themselves been overturned?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u76	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Synhonaki, people understand. Let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u78	What to do, Mr. Synthraki, is recorded in history. You come here and tell me they were so nice, paradise-made, and they were all happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u79	Was it or wasn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u80	Then why did the workers and the citizens overturn these states and the civilisation you describe me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u81	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u82	In any case, I'll answer you. Look, to get in touch and make no mistake about what we're talking about. No one said it was a pillow to claim on workers and citizens to improve their standard of living. We're all seeking it. We don't give you sensitivity more than we do. I recognise, however, that you, like us, want to improve the standard of living of citizens. Maximalist is knowing what the possibility of an economy coming as a party and saying undeclaredly, without specifying where they will be found - take note of what you say - the following: the tenth third pension, the fourth pension for all, the thirteenth and fourteenth wages for all, increasing pay horizontally throughout the territory, covering all the unemployed with 100% of the unemployment benefit, which will be 90% of the minimum wage. That's what I read from your timely question. How many billions does that cost? Well, you're not more sensitive than us. If there was that money, of course we'd give it. There's no money in the Greek economy! And because you constantly call on businesses, notice, nobody said they were sanctified all in business. Of course, there are abusive behaviours, unacceptable behaviours. This is why the State, the tax administration, the labour administration, the APRC, the repressive mechanisms and impose fines and safeguard the legality and rights of the employees. However, the income of the workers, Mr Syntagakis, comes from business. If there is no business, which you call 'the big capital', how will there be an income for the workers? Where's the money coming from? Unless you describe to me a world that will get plenty of money, but its value will be low, they will be able to buy nothing and live the misfortune that those you described before and overthrow the communist regime. That's the reality. I will now tell you two - three things about Crete that are interesting. It's useful evidence. Tell them to Crete to the beloved Cretan workers, who are next to them. At the level of Crete, the region of Crete, of which I described just before, the payments - I am talking about workers - have been given 51.731.350 in Heraklion. Also, Lasithi has been given by inhibitors 9.426.552, Rethymnon 17.998.385, Chania 25.974.300. Easter Gift, total for Crete 6.297,000 and more specifically: Heraklion - the roundabouts - 3,400,000, Lasithi 567,000, Rethymnon 828,000, Chania 1.5 million. For the issue of monomers of tourism, a total of 41,586,000 and more specifically: Heraklion 16,077,000, Lasithi 6,144.00, Rethymnon 7,679,000, Chania 11,685,000. With the program "CONTACT", the total for Crete is about 3,000.000. Payments: Heraklion 2,000. Lasithi 105.000, Rethymnon 231,000. Chania 622.882. Total for Crete 155.567.395.85 distributed - so that I do not abuse all the time - in the way I said before. Here is Return 4 from the Ministry of Finance. The numbers are known and they've been announced. In Heraklion there are fifteen thousand five hundred twenty - seven taxpayers who received 71,000,000. In Lasithi there are four thousand three hundred seven taxpayers who got 14,915,000. In Rethymnon there are six thousand twenty - five taxpayers and 24,179,000. In Chania they are eight thousand nine hundred forty taxpayers and took 43,995,000. Only in Crete, Return 4 was so. I have here and the company special-purpose allowances. They are the small and medium-sized enterprises that you say 'capital', which you are fighting for, these businessmen here. These businessmen, therefore, as a whole, have taken enough money to Crete as well. Indicative on the whole: Heraklion has received 15,219,000, Agios Nikolaos 4,598, Rethymnon 5,197,000, Chania 10,228,000. You see, Mr. Colleague, we're not sitting with our hands crossed. I have now referred to your Region, Crete, which we honor and love and we are next to the Cretans. We're doing everything we can. The money I have said is not 'air'. It is money that has so far been paid to the world of Crete and to the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. The eighth under number 235/7-12-2020 will now be discussed with a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Katharias in public hospitals: P.N.A. (Athens Sophia Psychiatric Hospital) Daphne and Children “Saint Sophia” receive government inertia against complaints about middle ages of work”. Mr Arseni, good morning again. You have two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, according to a complaint I have from the Single Workers' Association at the Psychiatric Hospital of Athens in Dafni - a complaint from November 5th - while the hospital pays a great deal of money for cleaning work, including full pay and employee contributions for heavy and unhealthy work, the contracting company continues to pay no legal fees and contributions. In particular, it continues to pay the monthly cleaners up to EUR 350 for six-and-a-day weekly work. It obliges cleaners every month to come to the offices of the company and sign on white paper amounts higher than they receive. It does not pay contributions for heavy and unhealthy work. It does not pay family allowances, additional wages for Sundays and holidays. It does not provide adequate personal protective equipment. Cleaning and disinfection materials shall not be available, in accordance with the contract. They're diluted. They often do not bear labels of their construction and origin. They shall not indicate how and how they are to be used, and shall continue to be insufficient for these species. In addition, the members of the Cleansing Control Committees, the Heads and Responsibility in the Structures, the Management Department shall report, send documents and make recommendations to the Management Board for violations of contract terms and incomplete cleansing, at the risk of serious health effects on the health of hospitals and workers, visitors and the cleaners themselves. Against all of this, you are also asked to act, as you have answered another question from Mera25, in writing, by Mrs Bakadima on 15 September, all you have done is to send the health inspectors to check on the workers and find that they were not wearing appropriate shoes. You are also asking for a number of documents in writing on the compliance of contracts, instead of sending EVA and the EVA, labour inspectors, to carry out checks. We ask you for self-evident. Put an end to this middle ages in the hospital in Dafni. Then we will also talk about the hospital "Saint Sophia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr Arseni. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr John Ioannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I will apologise to the House for my honourable colleagues. I am used to speaking from breasts, but I have to read a specific text, which I received from the Ministry of Labour's services. Mr Colleague, starting with you, I would recommend that, when you ask such questions, you be more careful. Because the question you are actually asking directly affects the employees of the Ministry of Labour and the labour inspectors. I would remind you - for the most part - that neither for my day, today, nor for your day, nor for SYRIZA - unless it was Mr Varoufakis, Minister of Finance, was working differently, but it did not work - nor could someone guide the APRC and tell him whether to put or not to impose fines. The APR has an autonomous function, such as all the mechanisms of the State and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour. Officials are doing what they are protecting and resulting from their duty and duties. They go to businesses on the basis of complaints, where they see infringements, either tax, insurance or labour, impose fines and operate autonomously and independently. You told me a little while ago that it was actually like I was telling the employees if they would put fines, if they wouldn't, where they'd go, where they wouldn't go. You can't do that. I tell you, my dear colleague, because you often ask such questions, as if the APRC or the state's control mechanisms were to be in the absolute jurisdiction of each minister. It's not like that! I now come to answer your question, to which I have been answered by the officials themselves, whom - I repeat - you are offended by what you are saying. I read: 'The APRC is primarily a control mechanism of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and is responsible for controlling, monitoring, supervising, imposing, on a case-by-case basis, administrative, criminal infringements of businesses, primary, secondary and tertiary sectors. The APRC has carried out extensive checks on the implementation of both existing legislation on safety and health at work and emergency specific public health measures, health protocols, with a view to preventing the spread of the coronary within workplaces.’ With regard to the checks that you are claiming that they are not carried out - and then I am going to answer specifically - I can assure you that, according to the audit activities carried out and the fines imposed during the period 1 -1-2020 to 31-8-2020 are as follows: 12 000 nine hundred and four audits for work relations. There are fewer, 12 thousand nine hundred four checks! Two thousand and fifty one fines were imposed, totalling EUR 6542.517. Ten thousand sixty-three checks were carried out for health and safety, and a thousand hundred and eighty-seven checks of special inspectors were carried out and a hundred and a half operations totalling EUR 428,500 were imposed. That is to say, all the controls in the above period of the eighth of 2020 are twenty-four thousand fifty-four and two thousand five hundred two fines were imposed of EUR 7,740,000. The APRC is therefore doing audits, Mr President, where they are called upon to do so, either through complaints or by workers themselves, or where it plans to see and check it, because there are abuses and abuses. Mr. Arseni, I'll answer for the hospital. I wanted to make a general position first. There is an answer, there have been checks, I will reply to my dentistry, but I first wanted to give the feeling and the real picture that exists and not that the APR is an instrument directed by any minister. It's neither gonna be nor ever there! It is an independent body, an independent administration, which in itself selects the strategy, the policy that will follow with regard to the audits and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance, which is here, Mr Vesiropoulos, and can then confirm it to you as head of tax administration. Thank you very much, I'll answer secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have never seen such an obvious old-fashioned terminology eat all the time of your prototymology to answer anything so that in your denture you can answer for what you say in your protology that you must not answer for the independence of the APRC. So the RCF is an excellent instrument, you've strangled it workingly, it's extremely subordinated. Apparently people over there want to do their job. They're not always allowed to do this. But I expect you to answer me, I expect you to answer me. I imagine you'll tell me about some fines that have been imposed in the past. We will also have your written answer. I want to know, however, when they will be checked. At the moment, as far as the working conditions in Daphne are concerned, you have a recent complaint. On 15 September the APR - even written - had requested certain payroll data. Tell us at least from 15 September until now if there were answers. Have fines been imposed? What about the Daphne that's about? Here, on the basis of the complaint by the employees of the Single Association of Workers at the Psychiatric Hospital of Athens, the members of the Board of Directors. We are being denounced - the application of the law and the imposition of fines and others. What's going on here? We urgently need to make an on-site autopsy from the APRC. We urgently need to put an end to the work of the middle ages. As far as the Agia Sophia Hospital is concerned, there are seventeen workers - and others will be fired - because it was decided not to implement their contracts signed two months ago. It is incomprehensible that workers in cleaning at the largest Children's Hospital in Greece on the street are in the midst of a coronary. These things are unthinkable. We invite you to change course. See what's going on in hospitals, see what's going on with the course of the pandemic. Do the basics, hire the cleanliness, make the hospitals with the equipment, hire! Do what you need! And do not allow the pandemic to be an excuse for a middle-aged worker, because that is what we see from the complaints, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Here, Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u90	Look, Mr President, the descriptions are missing. Mr Arseni, when you ask timely questions, it is good not to make designations, to make your position - your right, of course, is to place yourself as you wish - but I advise you not to make designations because they may sometimes be returned. I won't do it today, but in future be careful. I shall therefore begin, Mr President, with this: I shall make a reference to the EIA, because the EIA is the central arm for protecting the workers of the Ministry of Labour and the State in general. In time, the APR is the body, the body, which is responsible for abuses, complaints about breaches of workers' labour rights, health and safety at work. He did, does, and will do, with his powers, within his capabilities and continues to do so without any dependence on anyone, no administration, no minister, no government. He knows how to do his job. But we are going to the second, which I consider to be important. Before you accused me of degrading the RCF. So let me tell you why it is important to read the Ministry of Labour's communications, which correspond to reality and are not theoretical approaches. One hundred and twenty-seven labour inspectors will be recruited in 2020-2021, by 15%, i.e. the power of the RDP is increased. That's the one. As I come from an area which has dealt with the audits, I would like to say that, however much human resources you have, it is impossible to monitor all the business activities of the country at the same time, whether the tax administration and the tax authorities or the APRC, the Labour Inspectorate. It's impossible! So what are you doing? What you do every time is to find ways, mechanisms, to make targeted checks where they need to be. I would therefore like to inform you that the APRC since 1 March 2013 holds in its hands the "pipe" called "ERGANI". "ERGANI" is something that was not in the past, which you deceived as a party at that time with Mr Varoufakis, when I presented "ERGANI" and you called it "montazier". It is the electronic shield for workers, it is this tool that enables targeted controls to be carried out and monitor workers' working hours and punish undeclared work and abuses. Our country's labour inspectors have had this electronic tool since March by your interlocutor now Minister here that we have been having this debate. Secondly, I should like to inform you that in two months' time from today's five hundred special tablets, not just tablets, five hundred special tablets will be in the hands of inspectors and will now carry out specific electronic checks on these tablets. They will win huge man-hours, which were lost by texts that were necessarily written in hand and by fines written in hand and by making visual checks through cross-checks of man-made texts. Everything is done electronically and will change the condition of the effectiveness of the EIC, which will be greatly improved when the new law - labour market reform, a central chapter, Mr Arseni, is the "ERGANI" and its upgrade to "ERGANI II", with which the digital working hours and the working card are coming. You understand how important these are and how much they will improve the control efficiency of both the EIA and the administration in general. Now I come to answer quickly for the hospital. In particular, with the contracting cleaning company I would like to inform you that the Workshop Inspection Department, following its audits in the company in 2019 and 2020, has now found breaches of labour law. In particular, it audited the 12-3-2019 and imposed two fines totalling EUR 7,500 for infringements of the non-amendment of an egg and non-installation of a staff table. In 2020 it carried out an audit on 24-8-2020 and another audit on 5-11-2020, where it imposed a fine of EUR 4000 for the non-payment of wages on the basis of a statutoryly defined minimum wage, indicating that the above undertaking had not submitted any written explanations until then, as requested. However, on 14-11-2020, the company submitted to the local agency a request for treatment and related supporting documents showing that employees, on the basis of their individual employment contracts, are employed in parttime employment and carry out two unpaid daily breaks within their working time. Therefore, and in accordance with the detailed clearance notes of May, June, July 2020, it emerged that, in proportion to the working time of the employees, minus the time of their breaks, their remuneration paid is not less than the statutory minimum wage, as laid down in that Ministerial Decision. Therefore, there is no such infringement. With regard to the so-called bulk of complaints from the workers you claim to have not been investigated, I would inform you that all there is is only one application for a work dispute in February 2020 submitted by a worker of the "Aghia Sophia" Children's Hospital with the specialty of the cleaner. The subjectmatter of the dispute was the non-payment of compensation for a non-remunerated licence and was taken over by the worker. So there was only one application to the APR, which was resolved, too. In addition, on 13-10-2020, the service carried out another on-the-spot check at the Children's Hospital "Agia Sophia" following a complaint that there was no cooperation of an external cleaning workshop with the hospital. With regard to the audit - another audit - carried out by the OSCE's Health and Safety Inspectorate, this is, as I mentioned in my prology, part of the programme of targeted and emergency checks planned by the Ministry of Labour. Therefore, the incident of 20 August 2020, in which you are referring, was such an accidental and extraordinary check and not a moving procedure, as you have said. In fact, this control programme has been audited by 31-8-2020, three thousand four hundred thirty-seven businesses and pan-Hellenic holdings and seventy-seven administrative sanctions have been imposed - fines. In any event, during a check carried out on 20 November 2020 at the Athens Psychiatric Hospital by safety and health inspectors, it was found that the employees of the company providing cleaning services at the Athens Psychiatric Hospital did not wear appropriate safety footwear as provided for in existing legislation. In fact, in the previous audit carried out on 24-8-2020 in this cleaning operation within the Psychiatric Hospital of Athens-Dafni, the non-administration and use of safety footwear was again established. Therefore, the AAS had imposed administrative fines. In any case, Mr Arsenis, you see that even for this special check you tell me, without the Minister intervening, without the Minister's orders and directions of political leadership, the APRC is acting on its own and does a number of controls. And today I come to the House with the documents given by the labour inspectors themselves to answer for the work that has been done for this operation. So you see that this is a systematic, organised and conscientious job by the officials of the Ministry of Labour, by the labour inspectors, and they do so very well. So in future be more careful so that, when you ask such questions, you do not insult workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister. And now we are moving on to the next tenth, under number 230/7-12-2020, a topical question by the Member of Parliament for Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Government has abandoned the workers in the food-tourism sector." Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is true that pandemic has affected all sectors of the economy, as is the labour force in these sectors, of course. However, it has hit workers too much in the food and tourism sector. The government has so far taken measures covering the four hundred thousand employees in the food and tourism sector. This is a fact. However, there are too many workers in these sectors who remain unprotected and unprotected. We have no doubt that the government has taken measures for workers. We are talking very specifically about those who are at the moment at the moment at the moment and have a problem of non-protection. In particular, Minister, we are talking about seasonal workers in tourism with compulsory right to re-entry. It stopped the measure of the unilateral request to suspend a work contract of EUR 534 in October, transferred to the unemployment fund and to EUR 400 monthly income. Given the three-month unemployment benefit duration for February and March of 2021, these people are left without income. Secondly, Mr Minister, the situation of those workers who are not entitled to compulsory reintegration into foodstuff, who are literally in the air, is worse also worse because they did not have the right to suspend a contract and to compensation for a specific purpose of EUR 534 and a pledge, and now they cannot join the Unemployment Fund either, because they do not have the required number of days of insurance, which you know very well. I come to another point, the problems of seasonal workers in the winter season, since for these people nothing has been predicted. Neither the unilateral application for the EUR 534 and the equivalent nor the unemployment benefit has been provided, since they do not have the necessary insurance days. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would also like to refer to workers in nightclubs, which, according to the recent announcements by the Prime Minister, are not going to open until the vaccine comes. However, because this is a period when the country is being hard hit by the coronary pandemic and because public health is being threatened, what we all know and live, what we see and think about, companies are closing down with a state mandate for long periods of time, so that they are unable to meet their obligations towards workers. The Change Movement has made a series of proposals and many of them you have accepted, which we have repeatedly said to the House. You have adopted too many of the proposals in the Change Movement, because you have seen that they were correct and that they were not covered by the government's decisions. So the state has to take some measures. So you ask yourself, Minister, if you intend to receive for the specific categories we mentioned a moment ago - and I refer to tourism, food, workers in winter seasonal operations and workers in night amusement centres - some measures. And, if you intend, what are these measures and what is the timetable for implementing them? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr Mulkiotis. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Here, Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I listened carefully to Mr Mulkiotis and I will tell him that I, too, agree with him, because an enemy of good is the best. This is something we have said so many times and we fight the Ministry of Labour to keep the promise we have given, that no worker, no unemployed, any fellow citizen will find himself uncovered. Mr President, since the beginning of the pandemic, when I met with the social partners, employers and workers in the GFCM and employers in my office, I said that this crisis will all go through together together, with each other, sacrificing each part of his welfare and putting what can be done in the joint effort so that we can all get together winners. The pandemic, as you know, Mr Mulkiotis, was unexpected and did not have a certain compass of direction to operate an administration or a political leadership of the Ministry of Labour or a government. It was a sudden, unexpected and unprecedented thing. So we took steps from the outset, which in the course seemed to be effective. And thankfully, we did not listen to the sirens, which were saying 'give them all over again', and we held forces, we kept fuel in the second wave of the pandemic, we were able to respond to hundreds of thousands of workers. You were here a moment ago when I said about November that at the moment, by ending this month in November, we will only pay EUR 43.975 000 in total for the November suspension of contracts of work of closed and affected by sixty-four thousand eighty-seven-seven-one workers. Overall from the beginning of the pandemic, that is, from the beginning of the crisis, in March - November, we have given three million four hundred twenty-nine thousand seven hundred right-holders of EUR 2.520,000,000 from the Ministry of Labour only through the "ERGAN". I am not talking about the repayable advances made by the Ministry of Finance, nor about unilateral payments to businesses and natural persons, freelance professionals, from the Ministry of Finance. These are just from the Ministry of Labour. So I want to tell you that this is done in combination with the unemployment benefits we have currently given to a hundred and twenty-three thousand of our compatriots as emergency aid and thirty-three thousand long-term unemployed. We have paid two hundred and eighty thousand long-term unemployed 112 million euros, three hundred and seventy-three thousand unemployed 300 million euros and 20 million euros to forty thousand seasonal workers. Along with other measures we've taken, Mr. Mulkiotis, I think we're doing everything we can. We have proved it in practice, without claiming either infallible or perfect. However, with the economic powers we have, we are trying to cover most of the population. In addition, it is good at all times in this Chamber to clarify something which is worth mentioning. You've said it yourself, and you've admitted it. There is no longer in Greece after 2013 an uncovered citizen, an unprotected citizen. There is no, because in 2013 at the Ministry of Labour we set up the minimum guaranteed income mechanism. It's a mechanism that was missing from the country. All European countries had this, and here in Greece, Mr President, this paradox was the case. As Minister at the time, I measured what we were giving for social benefit as a state. The indicators I saw were impressive. While giving a share of GDP of the same amount of money as the most developed countries, the effectiveness of dealing with poverty was below zero! In other words, money was lost through overlapping and wrong social policies. Each Ministry has its own social policy. It was therefore made in Greece since 2013, in the conflict with PASOK - and in the Ministry of Labour which I was responsible for as Minister - the mechanism of minimum guaranteed income, which today covers two hundred and fifty thousand households, four hundred thousands of our vulnerable fellow citizens. With the Prime Minister last year - just before - we incorporated the minimum guaranteed income into the Constitution, it was guaranteed constitutionally and is now also an injection for these vulnerable categories of our fellow citizens, the four hundred thousand, by double payment. That's what I have to say, Mr. Mulkiotis. I shall refer specifically to the results of ELSTAT - it is a value to say two things about it - and the 'ERGANI' which will be announced today, to see how the labour market is going and to return to your request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Mulkiotis, you have three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have a complaint in the sense that you have actually quoted numbers that we have never called into question. We recognised that thousands of workers have been satisfied. However, we have said about four specific categories, for which there is no provision and no provision. This is a general remark. I would therefore like you to say something in your protology, so that I, too, can reply somehow to your question. That's a grievance, and I'm saying it. Second, away from us the sirens. You said an expression, which we do not accept as a Change Movement. Get away from us what you said you didn't hear the sirens! The Change Movement, as many times it was in the House, and each time it had specific proposals, costly and clear about the charges you had not dealt with as a government and had overlooked them. You have taken them into consideration, and you have also admitted that many of the proposals you have adopted were proposals from the Change Movement. Thirdly, you say about these people that there is no man uncovered or anything else. There are too many cases which you know and I would like to say a few things clearly here. There are workers for whom there is no care. You know very well that OAED cannot accept that they are seasonal workers who are in parallel, in parallel tourist businesses, rent - a - car, airports, etc. These are issues that you know very well. It's issues that you see, you've been informed. There are at the tourist offices workers you don't cover. To date, your decisions do not cover them. Aren't we supposed to show them these? These are requests that come to the House. The government must respond and say what is happening in these cases. In particular, as far as my question is concerned, Minister, we reiterate that the seasonal workers in tourism with compulsory right to re-entry have received special compensation in October. We're talking about it. We're not hiding anything. We're not zeroing. They took 534 euros. Now, despite the pressures and the Federation of Food - Tourism, Mr Hozoglou - who is getting late, knowing what it is like - to extend the period of application for suspension of a contract, the Government has cut them off and provides for accession to the Unemployment Fund and EUR 400. From the 534 euros, we're going to 400 euros. You also know very well, Minister, that the length of the unemployment benefit is three months. So what's going on? After February and March, these workers will be without income. It is a matter and we want you to answer it. The worst thing, Mr President, is that, in order for this unemployment benefit to come out, the major issue is that it has forty days, which means for this category that the risk of Christmas without money is visible. Mr Minister, you have received the GCC document, which is very specific to these particular people. What does GSEE's document say? It says that, after the end of the tourist season, all seasonal tourist workers should be included in an unemployment subsidy programme, at least until the beginning of the next tourist season, without further conditions and with a guarantee of health coverage. That's the point. You've been offered by GSEE. You could well adopt it, shut down all loose ends and have no problem with these people! No problem! Secondly, is the seasonal workers with no right to re-entry for foodism or is it, Minister, in the air? These people did not have the right to suspend a contract and to compensation for a specific purpose, i.e. the EUR 534 and the trademarks, and now they cannot enter the Unemployment Fund either, since they do not possess the required security number ‘five’. We said the Prime Minister recently announced the nightlife shops. Indeed, it is. What about these workers? We're talking about thousands of workers. Let the government tell us about this case how he thinks about dealing with them. That is the question we want you to answer. Also, tell us about the workers in the winter business. They don't have any welfare either. These businesses won't open this year, it's clear! Yes, it's clear! There is absolutely nothing for them, nor is there a unilateral request for EUR 534 nor for an unemployment benefit, since they do not have the necessary insurance days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u97	Finish, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I would like a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u99	One minute is a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u100	Why, Mr President, should they not have the same treatment as seasonal workers in the summer? It's a complaint from these workers. That is what we tell the government and we want the government to answer us. He told the Minister that there was a reasoned procedure and that the money given was specific. Indeed. But can't the government find money for these categories of workers? And, to provoke the Minister, I will ask him this: How does the government get money for posted officials? Every single one of us has posters. How does the government get this money? How does the government find money for the channels and media, as was the case with the well-known lists? Why did he give these? How does the government find a thousand other things and for these categories of workers does not? Minister, the people you have said, whose demands we bring to the House, will not be christmas. It's not a conversation to get out of here. They won't have Christmas. That is the question and their anxiety, and that is why we come to the House and raise their questions. Can we or do we want to do something? I say we can do something. To reduce the number of posts needed for the unemployment benefit. We can do it. Some people in the air will have a reinforcement. Also, can we prolong the unemployment benefit for these people so that they do not remain without income? We should give it up. So I say that we can clearly prolong it. It is up to you to extend it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u101	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u102	I would like to say, for today's tourism business, for my region, for Arahovas or for Kalavrita or for other areas, for workers. What are you going to do about these cases? It is specifically questions and we want, Mr Minister, I would ask you very much, a concrete answer. The government's measures are well known to date, they are all known, we all know them. For these categories, however, there are no concrete measures for the intervals, as we refer to them. If there are any measures, say them. If you have to take action, tell who it is and how to move. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u103	Be well. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, which will not be three!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I have to admit that you are a very galant. Instead of the three minutes provided for in the timely question, you have given Mr Mulkiotis much more! You did well! I'm not complaining. Give an unlimited time, more than seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u105	I'm thinking about what I'm gonna do to my chief next!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u106	You did well. I agree. Mr Mulkiotis has made a full political position on issues in which we agree that there is a place in society and especially in the pandemic. But I want to say something, Mr Mulkiotis, to which to reach agreement. I'll say it. No one says we're perfect and we're doing great, but you know we're doing everything we can. The figures that before I described who will get, hundreds of thousands of workers, who we have covered, plus the minimum guaranteed income, plus the policies through the OAED, all of this covers the vast majority of Greek workers, the unemployed, the long-term unemployed and, above all, the minimum guaranteed income to cover anyone who does not fall within this perimeter of this protection. That's why I'm saying no one's left uncovered in our country. Anyone in this perimeter, Mr President, whose suspensions and unemployment benefits are below the level of poverty, as identified and incorporating the criteria for his personal, bio-insurance, his assets, the criteria for the minimum guaranteed income, is entering the umbrella of the minimum guaranteed income, as today is four hundred thousand Greeks. Mr Mulkiotis, yes, we and our ears have and we listen and we watch and see, always in the context of the potential of the economy and its resilience. When you said to lower the signals from a hundred to fifty for seasonal workers, I personally heard it, I recommended it to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister said "surely". We counted how much it costs, and we did it simplely for the world of tourism and food, to get unemployment benefits. But we said there is always the measure. Today I hear you the hundred and fifty called and acted, to be done without a limit. That's what you said before, that is, you're still going further, without limiting the fifty badges. I would like to announce today to the honourable Members in this House that we are going to make another important contribution to reducing the number of posts, to get some categories of additional unemployment benefit. The order is already in Parliament, Mr Koutnajis's office. It is the reduction of the figures from a hundred to fifty in seasonal enterprises, which relate primarily to Northern Greece, canning, workers who have actually worked all that time and cannot find the hundreds of them to get the unemployment benefit. So today I announce, Mr President, that there will be cover for these workers by the government. Mr. Mulkiotis, make sure the government hears and watches. I will repeat that we are doing our best. We work with the excellent employees of the Ministry of Labour, the people of "ERGANI", who are fighting inconsistently every day to get these submissions of the declarations along with the tax and accountants of the country, who are also fighting with us and with us, next to workers and businesses, to do this difficult work this difficult period. Beyond any criticism, the self-evident one, which is made, beyond the extra claims, we have said many times that the European Commission and world-famous economists have come and said that any country that wants to see how the pandemic of job conservation is dealt with, let us see the example of Greece. That seems to me to be not something we are saying, that the decisions we have made and the actions we have developed have been in the right direction. The texts have been submitted here and are well known throughout the country. Yesterday ELSTAT announced the results of unemployment for September. Unemployment is 16.1%. It was deviated from last month, and at the same time it was deviated as in August. It's a positive development. At the same time, the 'ERGANI' of November, which we are announcing to the Ministry of Labour today, also shows that, despite the negative balance, which is all November, the wage-earning balance has always been the best performance in the past five years. In combination, these two show that the labour market showed resilience and did not accidentally demonstrate resilience. The labour market has shown durability, because we have taken effective, responsible measures, which were targeted and brought results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 224/3-12-2020 in the first cycle of the President of the Parliamentary Group and MP Larisa of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "They are affected by constant tax controls."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make a small reference, a political statement at first, because of the developments, in relation to what happened at the summit. Unfortunately, the government proved ignorant and incompetent. Did he not know that there was no article on the imposition of the arms embargo and that the Prime Minister insisted on something that could never be done? Wasn't the Greek Government aware of the enormous interests behind mixed companies, Turkish, German, Spanish, Italian? Did he not know that these people and these countries made huge investments and expected these countries to become the prestige of sanctions? Didn't he know we were alone? If all this did not know about them, unfortunately it does not know the only nuclear weapon that Greece has and is the veto. We should veto our country. Unfortunately, we haven't done it until today. They do smaller countries, but the New Democracy, as a government, does not do that either. Of course, I would like to say something, because I have heard the measures taken by the government. Well, I hear them. Of course, you also decided on something else to open the churches on Christmas and Photon Eve. There will be no water sanctification. Neither with plague nor with Turkish domination were there any lack of sanctuary of water. Let God light up and understand the huge mistakes they make, unfortunately, as government, after chasing the congregations. I'm afraid so. Now let's go to our minister. Minister, to solve a problem, you need to know why. You and your government and the previous ones have been trying to heal the result for years, chasing the businessman. I am referring to high taxation, because that is the point. Do you know why the businessman is evading? You're a tax collector. Why is a businessman evading? Because there is quite simply a high tax. If the tax is low, no one will ever steal the state. Of course, your state - because you are the state, the governments are the state - it hates the businessman, it keeps chasing him, it considers him to be tax-free. I'll prove it to you with evidence. How to compete, Minister, a Greek businessman, a Bulgarian company or German, a company from Ireland, Hungary, Romania, when they have 9%, 10%, 15%, 12% and the Greek companies have 24% and 5% of the dividend? That's the problem of tax evasion. People are forbidden because you're just chasing them and chasing them ruthlessly. You have essentially created a branch, a caste - you are also tax collector - people who are hunters of heads. You give them the right to behave as head hunters. And I'll prove it to you why. Because you made criminal mistakes. Check, Mr. Minister, a business. The tax office, my Minister, is obliged to have a rate of fines, yes or no, so that it can be properly assessed? He says the Passports Tax must have one billion dollars. fines. Is that true, to make an assessment of the exponential? It's true. I want an answer, therefore, whether or not it is true. Well, check not to conform the citizen, but to impose fines. Let me tell you why I'm saying this. Can you ask for a check in 2015, Minister, five to six years ago, and these checks last for two whole years from the taxpayers and taxpayers? Tell me about it. Since there is a law of limitation for five years. In November - December, head hunters came out, taxiers, to control all companies in 2015, because they know that they are being eradicated, while we have a coronary, while there is a huge problem and economic crisis, the tax collectors came out to impose fines on companies that do not have a turnover. Of course I have to say how that is done. With anonymous complaints. Velopoulos goes, denounces Mylonakis, has a little shop, poor guy, what he did to him doesn't pay tax. The tax office's running, just to find out if that's true. That's as good as it is. But at some point the person who denounces someone anonymously, if that man is acquitted, should he not pay the anonymous complaint, which may also be dirty and fake? Where is the legislator to protect the businessman from the disruption of his business, that the tax went and checked on him? Also, how does the check take place? They ask the citizens, the taxpayers, to know everything. They've been asking for documents that run back five years, Minister. He goes to one of the tax collectors and says to him about "Get me five years ago his invoice for cutting off on that one, get me if that's the case." These are unbelievable. There is no such control in another country for five years. Because I know Germany quite well, I imagine, that's where we had a serious system. A life of inconsistency in this country in terms of taxation. If, then, a fine is awarded and turns to court, Minister, what is the solution of the businessman? He'll pay a million-dollar fine to a business, the tax collector who's doing his control, and, if so, go to court. Isn't that right? He'll pay 50% in advance, though. Serious state, Minister. You give me the right to go judicially to plead, pleading an appeal, but I have to pay 50% in advance as an entrepreneur. It does not apply to any country in Europe, to any one. My recourse to justice, blackmail, to appeal and be entitled, must pay 50% and wait until it is finalized. I, too, will be practically devastated, the businessman is the thief, the fraudster, the tax collector, and the newspapers will write that he has escaped tax, but he has to pay 50%. So I ask you: he pays the public 50%, he waits for years, he doesn't get tax information, he weighs up. Is that a state? You want investments like that? You're making a mistake, big mistake. So until the court comes out, it's all committed, and its bank accounts. Are you all right? We commit a man's bank accounts who wants to find his right in justice and can't move, he can't touch his money. So, in fact, the unjust judgment of your tax and tax is directly enforced. It's unfair what you're doing. In checks that were not collected, we pay VAT and tax, you know that, Minister? A check that has not been collected, I took a check from someone EUR 20,000, not collected, I also pay VAT, I pay tax as income, and it is not looking to find the tax because that is the case. You're smiling, because you know that. Even if you have collected a euro or no euro, I will pay tax and VAT in income that I do not have. No result of the checks. It says the government: 120 billion in debt. Greeks. You'll never get them. I've told you for a long time to make two forty instalments to all, horizontal, let's go get money. You didn't do that either. But what are you doing? You cook budgets and say "we have more revenues, because we have to take". But you'll never get them! All you can do is strangle the economy, strangle the business, strangle the Greek entrepreneurs themselves, unfortunately. I'm closing up and I want answers to what I'm about to tell you. First question: Have you imposed taxes targets and are being assessed based on the objective of tax and tax officials, yes or no? Targets in taxes, throughout Greece, so much money should tax have brought, have you imposed? Secondly: Is it reasonable to ask for proof of five years - please note, please, to answer me, these are what I want you to say - is it right to pay VAT, tax, someone who has not been paid? And he's right for the continent to go to Thrace to do control, Minister? Travel, subsistence expenses, pay the state to go to check? Can't we get a taxi from Thrace? Why would the other one go from Epirus to Thrace? There are too many issues, but in short, friends and friends, I will tell you the absurd, in my dentistry, of all these issues, which are unacceptable to me. If you want Greece to resurrect, if you want Greece to resurrect and be next to the businessman and businessmen, don't think as tax collectors, think as technocratic ministers, who help the company to help it also, so that it can have a turnover. Or you'll turn them all off, and with the coronary, especially there's a huge problem. Thank you and I expect answers to my four questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr. Besyropoulou, you have three minutes, with tolerance, of course, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go up to the Step, and I will respond from here, as all colleagues do. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tax administration and its officials do not have the motives you give them. I am well aware of this area, and I can assure you that the vast majority of staff are carrying out their duties in an exemplary manner. Where an audit is carried out, it is neither self-evident nor predetermined the imposition and collection of fines. Tax controls are being carried out to identify and combat tax evasion, and I do not believe, under any circumstances, that you disagree with this need. The tax controls shall be carried out on the basis of the criteria for selecting and prioritising cases as laid down in Article 26 of L.4174/2013 and the relevant decisions. Tax controls are also linked to the criterion of the time when the limitation was completed, which reminds you that it was ten, fifteen and twenty years and we limited it to five years and only in exceptional cases it goes to ten years and not to the declaration being made at fifteen. They are conducted without discrimination and exceptions to prevent and suppress tax evasion, wherever they occur. There is an annual operational plan for the audits of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Only when infringements are found, sanctions provided for by the law are imposed. Indicatively, at this time, the auditors of the IAEA have intensified the checks in e-shop electronic shops, both at preventive and following complaints, with a view, in addition to combating tax evasion and generally economic crime, and to protecting consumers against unfair competition practices. What you need to know, not only you but all, is that the choice of cases that need to be checked as a priority is based on an automatic risk assessment system. This system has been developed within the framework of the international risk management standard in order to carry out checks aimed at cases of serious tax interest, seeking to make the most efficient use of the control mechanism. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I think you will give me two or three minutes. The risk assessment shall be based on the identification, analysis and measurement process of critical variables, which, based on previous experience, lead to tax evasion. Evidently there is no tendency to avenge. On the contrary, tax administration has been working in the interest of facilitating citizens, and you can see that from the number of institutional interventions that have been made in this respect over the last eighteen months. The regulatory framework for fines has been streamlined where it should have been tightened up as much as it should have been. It is a pretext that the Ministry of Finance and the competent state bodies are here to deal with any complaint or appeal by a citizen who feels that he is wrong. I must also tell you that, in all cases of tax controls, the persons controlled have the right under the law to bring an action before the AACC Dispute Settlement Directorate. It appears from the published information on the ADA website that that address examines and expressly answers more than 95% of the actions brought before it. It should be noted that in 2015 the corresponding figure was 57%. The number of cases brought before the courts has also been significantly reduced. From 53% in 2015 to 39% in October 2020. I would also remind you of our recent institutional intervention, the Committee on Extrajudicial Dispute Settlement, which achieves a rapid solution to tax disputes and the avoidance of long-term judicial struggles. I shall refer to the way in which the checks are assessed and carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Velopoulou, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u112	My Minister, you have not answered me. I don't know if you know what I'm asking. I ask again: has your office imposed targets on taxes, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u113	I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u114	Good. Is it reasonable to ask for proof invoices five, six or ten years back? It's specific questions. I ask you: is it right to pay VAT and tax for someone who wasn't paid? So we're actually going. So, listen, you told us very well on the basis of paper, but did you not tell us how taxes control us? They shall check on the basis of specific provisions and specific infringements. If there is no infringement, Mr Minister, it says - it says - in Article 11 for the control of income with all available information and any perception of them. It is subjective - I will put it in the Minutes, not to say what we want - that is, the tax office in its own understanding and any available means that it has can impose a fine. Not to say what we want, I've got it here, it's yours, it's from the ADP. I'll testify to the Minutes. I'll work with examples. Example one, Minister. Check five years ago in pizza. They ask how much each piece weighs before and after baking. How many meats have they put and how much fat there is in each piece. Do you hear me, Minister? In pizza they ask each piece what weight it is, after they cook it, and if the sausage is melted and the fat is removed, how fat is. Are you all right? I'll submit it to the Minutes. In a confectionery they asked to know how many grams each paste is and with the baking of the paste how much it was removed five years ago. Another example: In a renovation company they ask for invoices that were cut six to seven years ago. They're asking for photographs from the plumbers to see if things were done. I mean, the plumber digs the duvet, pull out the plumbing and pipes, prove them he did a job. They're fined to know what we're talking about. Another example, from another renovation company: They ask for a picture of electrical works. They demand cable measures and the quality of the cables with photos to prove it for five years ago. In other words, they should go down the building to prove to the tax office that the cables were ten meters, the shape was such, etc. Are we serious? I'll testify everything in the Minutes so you'll have it yourself. Tell me, how serious is this service? Example 4: Aesthetics Operation in Thessaloniki eighteen square meters was checked in three months. Are we all right? What are we talking about? Head hunters have become. You're giving them a hard job. It's not people's fault. It's not my fault. Let's talk about it. But when you set me as the goal of collecting hundred millions of millions of fines, I'll go to justice and injustice, because the evaluation is done. This is how the taxes are assessed, yes or no? How are the regents assessed? With objectives or not? So you make him a head hunter. You make him a citizen's enemy, not a citizen's friend. Also, listen here, so we know what we're talking about. Has the tax office that's made a mistake and paid a fine of EUR 100,000 to someone? If, in other words, the citizen is justified, will the tax authority apologize? Does he have an administrative penalty? Oh, no. So uncontrollably, the curator and the tax agent do whatever they want. That's what I'm telling you. There's no control. My Minister, how many tax controls have been carried out on tax or town planners since 1974 and then on how they got rich? I ask why I know tax collector in Glyfada, Panorama Thessaloniki, Voula, who can't afford that money. How do they get out? That's why I'm telling you a few things. You may be a poor tax collector, but there are also your colleagues who are rich. So when you make him a head hunter, that's the result. Here I have a report from a woman who went to New Heraklion and paid her a fine illegally. The woman proved it. He went and injured the taxi. In other words, you will make the Greek enemy of the tax collector. It's wrong what you're doing. I've got papers. I'll testify to the Minutes and these. In closing, I will tell you once again that, if you want to function properly, take reasonable measures. The businessman can't be afraid of the tax collector as if he's his boogeyman. And most of all, while we have a coronary, Mr Minister, give it a little relaxation. Let them relax a little bit. They're chasing all the businessmen. They haven't left anything standing. I'm telling you why you have goals. When you target him, he'll go after the target, because that's where he'll be assessed. Don't be chasing wires and grams in the paste. Let's go after the invoices from the big companies. That's enough! Nisafi! In the pizza piece to remove the fat from the salami, to check how it was cooked, and if it's less to tell me how many tons of flour you made and how many pieces you sold? Are we serious? Is that a service? I'm waiting for answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the state has recommended the Independent Public Income Authority, which operates beyond and outside political and party interventions. There's an evaluation everywhere. After all, this is an optimal European practice. The main criteria for evaluation are knowledge, experience, professional, administrative and operational capacity. The assessment system of the Independent Public Revenue Authority shall be governed by the decision of the Commander of the AIA, as amended and valid, establishing the new performance management system for the officials of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which includes, inter alia, the qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the staff of the AAR. In particular, the evaluation includes: First, an evaluation of the officials from their two hierarchical senior heads. Secondly, an assessment of the heads of government from their subordinates. Thirdly, a horizontal assessment between colleagues and, fourthly, a self-assessment. Therefore, the evaluation for ADI officials and therefore also for auditors is qualitative rather than quantitative. The imposition of fines is therefore in no way part of the assessment criteria of the auditors. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] At the same time, at the level of the European Union's tax administrations, ASE led the planning to create a model for measuring the effectiveness of tax administrations in managing its human resources. The model has been completed and is expected to be presented to the European Commission's Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs in 2021. The issues of human resources efficiency management are key to the functioning of this model. As a result, the assessment is based on the implementation and adaptation to Greek data on best practices implemented by tax administrations in other European countries, with positive results for years. From there on, for checks you should be aware that there are twenty-three steps for a check. It's not a bureaucratic and multi-teaching process. It is a coherent and operational framework, describing the twenty-three stages, from the issuing of the control order to the notification of the result of the control to the taxpayer and the confirmation of the amounts involved. For reasons of short time, Mr President, I am tabling them in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Veyropoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I must also tell you that the average time for completing tax controls is two to four months. It is an indicative time, depending on the nature and complexity of each case. In order to respect citizens' rights, however, there is provision in Article 25(4) of the Code on Tax Procedure, according to which the period of on-the-spot tax control may be extended once by six months only. Further extensions of up to six months may be made only in exceptional cases. For this check you said earlier, for the pizzeria, probably in Northern Greece, in Thessaloniki, there is a specific procedure followed for the implementation of indirect control techniques. The control programme is set out in detail in the MOL 1124/2015. I could analyze you, but, due to a lack of time, I can't. As for the limitation to five years, I told you that it was twenty years, fifteen years, ten years. The decisions of the Council of State have been made, they have been respected by the Greek Government and we have legislated. We have explicitly limited it to five years and exceptionally ten years, when there is a clear new element with prediction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. We continue with the first with number 219/12-2020 in the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Kilkis - the Progressive Alliance of Lady Peace - Eleni Agathopoulos to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “Society of members of women, feminist organisations and political reasoning on 25 November, World Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women”. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question we are debating today was tabled on 1 December and concerned the arrests of eleven feminists and solidaritys during the commemoration events of 25 November, World Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women. We are, of course, talking about total injurious arrests, which Mr Chrysochide has already apologized for. We expected that his apology would also mean a change of direction. Nevertheless, the developments have taken us a few days and then we have seen exactly the same work repeated on December 6th, a day of memory for the murder of Alexis Gregopoulou, where you did the same and worse: a hundred thirty-five arrests, three hundred four insults, a curfew in Exarchia, a drop of shine in the building and many more, which we do not have time to analyse. I say "do", because the police can be your executive arm, but you are the ones who give the orders, you and Mr Chrysochoidis, and you have absolute political responsibility. It would also be a good thing if Mr Chrysochoidis were here today to defend this apology himself, because, from what he said, the reaction of the police was too excessive. So how do they have the data on that day? On 25 November there was a call from women's and feminist organisations for memory in the Constitution, while respecting all health measures. The women who gathered themselves were few, unlike the security forces, which were more than double, both up and down the square, and were extended as if they had been on the side of the terrorists. I was an eyewitness and no one can question that. The fact that there was police proves and the fact that there was information on mobilisation had been publicly announced in the past days. Finally, we have, as a pretext - and if not I want you to expressly mention it - that meetings and demonstrations in our country have not been banned for many years, even though your efforts in recent years have been in this direction. Yes, it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u119	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u120	...that at the time of outside arrests, on the wall of the House he was playing videos for the day and inside all the political leaders made statements on this matter. What, then, is the reason to intimidate these ten women, because it was not more in the Constitution at that time, and if the sensitivity of your resignation and of the Prime Minister himself - which otherwise shows communication sensitivity to racial violence - is limited to cultural correct events, videos with known actors, orange ribbons and theoretical discussions? I close with the question raised in the timely question, namely whether you intend the apologies of the Minister to take action, to abolish the charges now, and to cancel the fines to these women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I will not follow you to the austerity of the words and designations and to an extreme micro-political approach to issues relating to violence, etc., as I have answered in the past and in topical questions, but also during the debate on the draft law on detention stores that we have voted very recently. They were given the relevant answers by the Minister, Mr Chrysochide. I will begin with a more specific report on the facts you describe within your question. As I pointed out a few days ago in the very same Chamber, in reply to your colleague on the very same subject, the intervention of the Greek Police was deemed necessary for only one reason to avoid a large number of people being gathered at this point. The manipulations by the Greek Police were carried out with continuous information and guidance of the Prosecutors of Athens. Thus, following instructions from that judiciary, it was initially recommended that the participants should be removed, while they were checked in accordance with the provisions on COVID-19. It was then requested by the nine assembled to leave, without any result again, while people were constantly coming, who left at the view of the police. The appeals to the Police Department of the Constitution, which were made in part, were followed, applying the criminal procedure for infringement of the article on disease prevention in conjunction with the provisions on emergency measures to protect public health. However, through the current question, a key issue is raised, which touches the whole society and which the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the leadership of the Greek Police have approached with particular care and determination. I am thinking of the issue of violence against women and, more generally, of the sad phenomenon of domestic violence, as well as of the grid of actions and of the many initiatives already developed by the Greek Police in the fight against them. The Greek Police have developed an integrated strategy of intervention to prevent and combat domestic violence. The actions developed focus on two axes: protection of victims of domestic violence through investigation of criminal offences and the collection of evidence of criminal offence, with a view to referring the perpetrator to justice, effective prevention and combating domestic violence through the implementation of actions and initiatives to inform and raise awareness among citizens. It is also worth noting that, as of October 2019, there has been an extensive network of national wide-ranging seventy-two domestic violence offices in the headquarters of the general police directorates and regional police offices in the country, as well as in the seats of the existing police directorates-general. In particular, a dedicated section of the Directorate-General for Police General at the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police, the Department for the Management of Independent Family of Violence helps to coordinate more fully all actions in order to actively combat this phenomenon, which, unfortunately, is an excitement. In addition, the competent services of the Greek Police have compiled a comprehensive information campaign with a central message: "You have Voice. We're next to you." Posts of information material on social media...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u123	Finish, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I will be brief in my dentext. ...and on the website of the Hellenic Police, as well as the implementation of numerous actions in cooperation with co-ordinate bodies and services, compose a strong, solid line of defence and communication to the edge of our country, clearly demonstrating the deep awareness that characterises the physical and political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection on this issue. To conclude, I would like to point out that on the occasion of the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, at the initiative of the Ministry of Civil Protection, important points have been enlightened in the country, such as the Rio-Antiri Bridge 'HARILYNS', the Hiking Bridge of Kalamata, the Stone Clock in Pasalimani, Piraeus, and the 'SDG 17 GRECE' network, through which more than fifty municipalities in the country have been lighted. The aim was thus to convey the message of the Greek Police campaign to eliminate violence against women and, more generally, domestic violence. Finally, officials from the relevant department of the Hellenic Police Headquarters, as well as local offices for dealing with domestic violence, participated in numerous local actions and initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u125	Madam Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u126	Minister, I think - and I'm sorry to say it - that you were out of the question. I would very much like to follow you in this mild tone, but you did not say a word about the question. We are asking again whether fines and charges will be eliminated, although they are not - if you want - what frightens the arrested ones, not the world that continues and eats wood out. You know, the fight against patriarchy is being given to the streets and these women you have arrested have lived on their feet all these years. It does not scare them at the moment either the police rule or your orders or the fines, if you want to know. After all, the movement has always been solidarity in such cases. The fines won't pay for them by themselves. He'll raise the movement the money, we'll help you in it too, to get paid. But, as politically responsible, you must apologise to do it and act when you say it, otherwise you should not say it. As far as we understand it, Mr Chrysochoidis has said at a time of carelessness, as all your members of your leave have been treating very closely and the Prime Minister, first of all, lately. So it is given that your will as a government and abundantly, with developments in the last twenty days, is that you have been trying, on the pretext of pandemic, to plunge any voice into a society that is increasingly immersing in repression, violence and authoritarianism, in a society where constitutionally guaranteed freedoms are limited and the Ministry of Civil Protection is transformed rapidly into a Ministry of Repression and Restriction of Freedoms. Furthermore, we see no willingness to control the uncontrolled violence on the part of the Greek Police. On the contrary, the impunity, which appears to be the result of the Alvizatou, justifies violence and inspires the illegal ones, shows them that they enjoy some peculiar immunity. Fortunately, however, they are angering part of the police, which is reacting to these practices with the announcements I will present to you. We would like you to show the same zeal as the arrests of the previous period for the arrest of the convicted Golden Earp, because you have not done so. We ask you to answer until when and when you will take advantage of this pandemic to continue this authoritarian policy. I have nothing more to say. I will, however, present you with only a few letters expressing the social outrage in relation to your practices. These are three letters from the ECHR, the Greek Union for Human Rights. The first judges the anti-constitutional curfew on 17 November. The second is criticised by the Minister for saying that the virus does not fit outdoors and by the third, of course, it speaks of the exploitation of the pandemic, of the stricter control measures for citizens. Amnesty International resolution. "Elevate your voice and ask for the end of police violence and impunity." Announcements of trade unions and stateless police officers against your practices, against the practices of the Ministry of Civil Protection, because they are your orders, which day after day you continue this depressive of repressive policy. We want an answer to that, whether you will continue to exploit pandemic, to implement such policies. Is it also your initiative or is it coming from above? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a procedure. The timely question has a specific question. This question must be answered by the Minister. This whole process cannot continue, where either the Member or the Minister can talk about things beyond the question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, thank you. You could not escape your obsessions and your ideologies for violence, for the state and for the police in your approach. I won't watch you. But because there is a past in this country, I will only remind you that, when you were President of the Centre for Equality Research and we have seen the light of complaints about the Venezuelan Ambassador and the abuse that took place within the field of embassies, you have silenced. Leave championship and sensitivities for human rights. In my initial position I tried to describe how Greek Police, but also the Ministry of Civil Protection, not only on 25 November, but also on everyday life, pays particular attention to issues of tackling and raising awareness of violence and of women and of domestic crimes in general. With regard to the final question and question raised, I would like to point out: The apologies expressed by the Minister have political content, precisely because the necessary, restrictive measures to put the pandemic back on the ground, despite their temporary nature, are ultimately a reason for force majeure to curb travel and meetings. Secondly, the claims of the nine women made by the Constitution Square on 25 November and the administrative fines imposed in the context of the exceptional protection measures by COVID -19, as I explained in my first place in detail, have all evolved with the supervision and coordination of the Chief Prosecutor and on the basis of his instructions that an infringement of 285 of the Criminal Code, a breach of measures to prevent disease, was established. As to the fines imposed, for your own information, I will inform you that objections have been raised. They were accepted and the fines were cancelled. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by emphatically stressing that the Hellenic Police operates institutions under the law, in cooperation with the competent prosecutors and under the strict legal and procedural framework. I also assure you that we are dealing with a responsible and strategic plan to combat violence against women and, more generally, with the phenomenon of domestic violence, which remain at the top of the priorities of this government. Along with the natural leadership of the Greek Police, we will step up without any reassurance even further efforts to combat a sad phenomenon that touches our society and which must unite us all against it, as it is not offered for political controversy. In this direction, we call on you to make a creative contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u129	We continue with the first with the number 223/12-2020 topical question of the second SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Anna Vageias - Kylaedonis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "An urgent need for emergency measures for the hospitals of Larissa". The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Zoe Rapti, will answer. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, of course the question was to the Minister, Mr Kikilia, but your presence is welcome. You're also a woman, and I'm glad you're here, and I'm not underestimating your presence. So I asked you to come here today, and I came only for the reason that I could give a voice to my thousands of people from Larissa and the wider region. My voice - the one I have the honour of sounding here today in the Greek Parliament, for me it is a great honour - is their voice. And we ask you: what have you been doing for nine months, from the beginning of pandemic to the present day, to shield the National Health System? Along with this, all of the country and of course Larissa, her two major public hospitals. What are you doing outside - not you - of course, the government - but resting on your laurels, admiring yourself and living moments of relentlessness? The reality is tough and he tells you you didn't do anything at all. And as evidence I will read a letter from the Workers' Association of the University Hospital of Larissa dated 8-12-2020 to the Members of the Larissa, entitled "Fight Without End". I read: "All workers in the second wave of the pandemic are fighting daily to offer our services to the CIVID patients who are hospitalized by dozens in clinical and ICU. Our physical and psychological reserves are exhausted by constant pressure, lack of reserves and incomplete design. We are desperately asking that in this war there should also be other aids, with staff and ammunition, which are the individual means of protection. By overcoming ourselves, we are struggling with all our powers, but we are declaring ourselves every day, because we are not immune to COVID -19. Over a hundred workers are ill, tens are still missing with special purpose and vulnerable groups licenses. We are constantly calling for recruitment to be carried out, by express procedures, but they do not come. We've been left alone without help. Anguish cries, we express with press releases in each direction. We ask for our struggle to take place throughout the city and in Thessaly. We demand: Recruitment by express procedures, so that they can be incorporated immediately. Personal protective equipment. Integration into heavy unhealthy. Granting a Christmas present. Simulation of all contract staff, ancillary staff and OAED, all of which we are fighting together. Ladies and gentlemen, please warmly for your help.’ These people I came here today to help out here. I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. The epidemiological data of the second wave of this pandemic that we are facing are for several cities, as for Larissa, quite difficult. However, according to what is recorded, slowly but constantly the number of cases and intubated cases gradually begins to decline. In relation to your question and to that particular point, if we are going to get private clinics in Larissa, first of all, I say that there is no need for a requisition, because the private sector is working very well with the 5th Health Area. In particular, with regard to the two private clinics, which you mentioned, these two accept from public hospitals the incidents of non-COVID. They also have IF beds, but they even get incidents that they need mild hospitality, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u133	We're talking about COVID.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u134	Wait a minute. We all understand - and I would like you not to interrupt me - that, if we need further reinforcement of the COVID beds in public hospitals, fate will have to be transferred to private hospitals. This is already the case with his clinic "YOO" Thessaly. And today, the General Hospital of Larissa is only taking COVID cases, while the University Hospital accepts other incidents. So you understand that this dynamic of the two private beds, to which you refer, is already being used in the overall system of dealing with this pandemic from the 5th Health Region and, of course, from the Ministry. So that is not the case at present. However, the data are constantly monitored. With regard to further support to health workers, to whom you refer, I would specifically like to say that since the beginning of the pandemic, Mr President, for the Larissa General Hospital, a total of twenty doctors have been recruited permanent and subsidiary doctors, while within the second wave of the pandemic there are sixty-four paramedical staff and twenty-two nurses, specializing in Epigenology, while at the Larissa University Hospital a total of forty-six doctors have been recruited - permanent and subsidiary, and, of course, thirty-three other subsidiary staff have been employed. In fact, within the second wave, forty - six people have been hired paramedical and fifty - five nurses. Within the same second wave of pandemic, two private doctors have been hired with a private contract, namely a pneumonologist and a pathologist. And, in particular, to talk about the ICUs, which is what is needed in the second wave of pandemic, I would like to say that according to all the elements that have been tripled by the ICUs. Apparently, there were not many, but at the University from six who were when we received, they've grown to eighteen and at the General Hospital from eight to twenty-seven. In both hospitals, the majority of the recruitments I have referred to relate to health skills in COVID. They're the ones who fight the intensive care units. Finally, as far as health material is concerned, the Ministry's picture is that there are no great shortages in the health region. It is precisely because the health region assists the hospitals with measures of personal protection. In particular, I should like to say about the materials that, in particular, medical machines were reinforced in the second wave of the pandemic, in the sense that they also received respirators for the ICUs, and of course also from the General Hospital and from the University. If, of course, they ask for other such aid, they will receive it. So the overall picture for the hospitals, which you refer to, is that they are reinforced daily and at the speed that is possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u135	Madam Secretary, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u136	Let me say that, Mr President. No one's left outside of meth. I say this because this is what you refer to in your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. The numbers look strange. I don't know, everyone gives their own numbers. I have to tell you that in the organic positions at the University Hospital in Larissa there is a 30% deficit. They had to be two hundred twenty-eight, and they're a hundred fifty-two. That's official evidence, which I've asked the Commander of the Larissa University Hospital, and I can testify. Also, from the University Hospital of Larissa have patients from COVID -19 medical staff fourteen, seventy - seven. As for the other hospital, the General Hospital, we have two hundred and thirty-four doctors at the beginning of the pandemic - these are elements, too, from the commander, I have not taken them out of my mind - and two hundred and seventeen today, that is, fewer doctors. And they have suffered fifty-seven nurses and twenty-five doctors. As for what you mentioned, in a large hospital in the west, I have been talking about COVID beds. They do not accept CIVID patients. CIVID patients are ‘leper’ for private security. They're going with the other incidents. So, what you said, don't tell me. You can answer them to the people who lost theirs from COVID -19 and to many people in Larissa and the region, the likely to have been saved - I'm not sure - if they had better hospital conditions. To them to apologize and not to us. And I mention a few articles on it: 'It's on the knees of the Larissa General Hospital', a question I have put on 12-11-2020. "Black day with two hundred and seven cases," 19-11 in Larissa. "The 5th RCD, the largest RCD in IF beds, is complete, cannot accept others." ‘Korion virus Thessaly, asphyxiation to the ICM. Patients are being transferred to Attica and the Peloponnese, Minister. This was published on 25 November. On November 30th: "Koronovirus, the 49-year-old mother-in-law gynaecologist Nektarios Halvanjas lost the battle, in Larissa, forty-nine years old. Also on December 3, a hunger strike was launched by Lambros Chapalis, a traumat of the University Hospital. Christmas gifts for all employees and others. Don't read in detail what he's saying. Lives lost -- he says -- and you know it. He continues today, Minister, the hunger strike. To him answer, not to me. I also have a letter from a contractor here on cleanliness. What can we talk about? These letters, I shall be tabling them. Also, because I have this opportunity, I would like to express my condolences to all the families who have lost their own people from the coronary throughout Greece and my region and to express warm thanks and great respect and gratitude to all the nursing and medical staff of hospitals throughout the country and of course of Larissa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, my fellow Member, for your time. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. What the honourable Member has said about the fact that we all understand - and she knows - that these organic positions, as you mentioned, the two hundred and twenty-eight, which are at the disposal of the ESS and only the hundred and fifty-two are covered, do you understand that this is not the result of six or seven months being able to be paid, but it is the result of the ten-year crisis and, of course, of your own governance, where more recruitment should have been carried out? From there on, on the issue that concerns, as I mentioned before, the IF beds, at the moment - and today we are talking about - the IF beds are available and, as you well know, the private sector, in agreement with the Ministry of Health, does not receive specific cases of COVID for hospitality. This is not only the case in Larissa, but throughout Greece. The agreement with the Ministry is to pick up non-COVID incidents, precisely for there to be available beds in the ESS, which are converted into COVID beds. There is therefore an effective response to all incidents at the hospitals in Larissa. When it was required, these were strengthened, as I mentioned earlier, with the figures I mentioned and I think that, if you look at them specifically with the workers, you will see that this is absolutely true. Of course, I repeat once again that no one will be helpless. We are not only confined to the 5th Health Region, which is the Region of Thessaly, if another bed is needed, but of course there is a sanitary region, as the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, said, and, if need be, it will pass through. But today there is no such matter. All the incidents are handled by our two hospitals in Larissa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you. We continue with the sixth under No 226/4-12-2020 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Explanations for the competitive process of IFET S.A.” in terms of supplying two million rapid tests. In this timely question, the Minister will answer. Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, under Article 3 of the Act of 25-2-2020, Article 13 of Law 4693/2020 and Article 18 of Law 4728/2020, provision was made for the supply of the material necessary to deal with the pandemic by procedures other than the existing legislative framework. In this context, the company "IFET S.A." held on 4-11-2020 an invitation to supply two million rapid tests, with the opening date of tenders on 9-11-2020, on the basis of the lowest bid. This action raises a number of questions about its usefulness, as it had just preceded, in the same process, a supply of eight hundred thousand rapid tests and, according to yesterday's EGE epidemiological surveillance report from health units and stepping-up of EGE which carry out rapid tests, three hundred thousand samples have been checked, which does not satisfy the need for a more rapid supply of two million rapid tests. In addition, although the pandemic is already counting ten months in our country, questions arise about the feasibility of maintaining up to 31-12-2020 of the non-L.4412/2016 procurement procedures of the necessary material, instead of the systematic recording of the shortcomings and planning of the tenders, in accordance with the anticipated competitive procedure, especially when the Association of Medicine and Biotechnological Products itself suspects with the letter sent you on 13-11-2020 of the possibility of ‘photographic’ tenders in favour of specific companies that have made available the necessary material to meet the suffocating competition deadlines and high costs and which are not justified by prices on the world market. So we ask you: First, why was the rapid supply of two million rapid tests from the IFET S.A. on 4-11, and the eighth time before that? Secondly, what do you respond to the objections of the letter from the Association of Medicines and Biotechnological Products? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. In the first place, as regards the feasibility of the two million rapid tests in November, as you say, often in this Chamber but also in our public debate, it is not only to respond to the needs that pandemic creates, but of course to a large extent to predict and deal with its development. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of November, the upward trend in cases, which led to the imposition of Lockdown, had already begun in September. So the data we had at that time - I am talking about November - and at that time it was entering a phase of the pandemic, and that is why we had to act immediately. In other words, we had to supply directly the large quantities of rapid tests we supplied. It was, as you can see, an emergency and therefore the supply of these tests was a supply which was foreseen by means of the submission of tenders within a short period of time, as provided for in Article 13 and Article 16 of Law 4693/2020. It should be noted that there has been sufficient competition in this competitive process because seven economic operators have participated together and, of course, those operators have been given the opportunity to submit a bid even for part of the total commission. The legality of this procurement procedure was also checked in the context of the pre-contractual audit of the Court of Auditors, which in its 441/20 decision found that the tender procedure was of course completely legal, i.e. carried out in the right way. Then came the Court of Auditors again and rejected the complaints made by an economic operator against the invitation to tender, precisely because his own quantity was not delivered within the three days required by the notice. In other words, the Court of Auditors confirmed the legality of this particular condition of the invitation. In fact, in the Court of Auditors' decision it is clearly stated that in September 2020, there was no possibility of providing for the need to supply these tests that we had to obtain in November, because the negative development of the pandemic - as the Court says - was not predictable in September. Finally, I should like to say that the standards have been made on the basis of what the World Health Organisation defines. That is why we have been very specific about the tests we have been asking for. Furthermore, as far as the large volume and directity of supply are concerned, we all know and know from the beginning of the pandemic the great competition between the states which impose on the Ministry of Health that we have guaranteed rapid tests from the beginning of the outbreak rise in order to prevent any shortages, but also, of course, market price rises. I also want to say that today, with this quantity that the Ministry of Health has now provided for, we have the opportunity to move towards a more aggressive strategy, an aggressive strategy, so that we can provide rapid tests in structures, which, as you know, we voted here in Parliament yesterday, in order to increase rapid tests vertically and broadly the cycle of bodies that will carry out them. From yesterday, tests will be carried out, among other things, in care facilities for elderly people, in penitentiaries, in a very large number of structures, which means that we would need and need these tests to be available. Finally, I should like to say that, as long as this pandemic lasts, the emergency needs must be dealt with in the way that we have voted here in Parliament by means of legislation. In conclusion, in relation to the complaints made by the body referred to in your letter, namely the body, the SIB, complains about the tight deadlines for the submission of tenders and, of course, does not mention anything about a ‘photograph’ invitation to tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u145	Good, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u146	Minister, I have listened with great attention to you, but it is not possible in these times that we live, that the shadows of scandals are suspended in commissions, so that I can be clear. You said that we wanted to obtain two million rapid tests, while we had purchased eight hundred thousand rapid tests at the end of September. Right now, they've only done three hundred thousand, over two and a half million. What does that show? It shows that, first of all, EOGY, the Ministry, the structures do not rapid tests. It's not enough for us to be able to control the country epidemiologically. You cannot come after eight months, with a last-minute amendment, to give the right to closed structures to make the rapid test. These things that are happening in our country should have gone far faster. It should have been the tests, rapid tests especially had to have been done much more, to have the image. Scientists say this, they say, "Make an epidemiological check at random, sample-by-sampling, see what the situation is in our country and before the "opening" of the economy to know what exists in our country." Everyone calls it, they all say it, but unfortunately that's not possible. But on the other hand, you're making a contest and what do you think? In the first phase you do not put the WHO standards - that you take it out - in the second phase you put specifications, you say 'the companies that have been approved by the World Health Organisation' and these companies are two specific companies. Don't you share? Isn't that something fabulous about it? And go down? We must make available all the means we have for this crisis. We can't wait yet. The vaccine may be a solution, but it is part of the solution. At the moment, our weapon is to keep the measures and a lot of tests. This Movement of Change calls it the first time and should be acted upon. And one last thing to close and not eat your time. In recent times, complaints from nurses, people serving in hospitals are intensified, that there are too many SADs or staff movements to other hospitals, because they do not like administrations. Look at this, there are specific complaints. Look at the topic and give it a solution! It is not possible for the health workers, who are currently lifting the burden, to face up to the authoritarianism and vengeance of certain administrations. You must take serious measures! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u147	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u148	In relation to what you referred to at the end, the comment I have to make is that, in my view, this is impossible to do, but I would like, if you have any specific, of course, and the name of such a report, to bring us to consider it. Now, compared to not making rapid test, we rapid test daily, in too many numbers. It is lately nearly twenty thousand per day, seventeen thousand, and by receiving the large number of tests that we have now been given the opportunity to move, as you quite rightly said - and I do not think we disagree anywhere - on increasing the checks carried out on a daily basis. And since yesterday, as I said before, all structures will now be able to carry out these rapid tests themselves with their own care and care, which means that a multitude of rapid tests will be needed monthly. And, of course, I believe that the quantity currently in existence at the Ministry of Health is doubtful whether it will arrive until January. However, in relation to the companies you mentioned that there are only two companies that meet the conditions laid down by the World Health Organisation, the Ministry of Health has decided that these standards laid down by the World Health Organisation are those that ensure that the rapid tests we take and that we carry out will be safe and, of course, accurate. So that's why this term came in and I don't think anyone else could disagree with that. After all, the tender with two, as you mentioned, which meet these conditions was a tender for the Greek State, which was beneficial in terms of both price and substance, which is the benefit of using these rapid tests. Of course, you know that a daily effort is being made to increase controls. And that does not only the Ministry of Health, but also the Civil Protection. And I very much say to you that for anything that the Ministry of Health is in a position to do, I would like you to report it to us and to present it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. We continue with the second with number 1385/3-11-2020 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Completion of the renovation and exploitation of the “Pananarios” (formerly hospital)”. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, two weeks ago we discussed with Mr. Kontozamanis a timely question about the renovation of the old "Venezelio" Hospital building and the possibility of making a few beds - which is a priority and an immediate need - and, of course, the building being renovated as a whole, after the relevant clinics were transferred to the new building, which was finally completed. Today I want to discuss the issue of the Panagion Hospital, the building that is inside Heraklion's urban fabric and which is a preserved building. It was planned to become a center of mother - child. I was lucky to be President of the Development Agency, which we signed a programme agreement with Venizelos, and we proceeded with an important part of the programme, the restoration of the building, and thus avoided its collapse. That was important, but it did not go any further. I have only spent ten months on this agency, and it is now up to us to reform it, renovate it, to rebuild it. The administration of the "Venizelio" has proposed that this building be used as a day centre for autism, as a centre for relief, support and rehabilitation in time for suffering, cancer patients and patients with motor problems, to set up an independent daily hospital, a blood supply station and a bloodbathing centre. It's an integrated proposal. Perhaps some issues could also be discussed. But the main issue remains is building. The Ministry of Culture replied to my question that it is available to assist our efforts and strengthen the services so that the study and the construction of the project can be included in the 2014-2020 MAGP or in the next one. I would therefore like to see the actions of the Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the administration of the Venizelou coordinated, in order to achieve the integration of the renovation, renovation and restoration of this historic hospital within the Regional Programme that is running, because if we have any further delays, it will not be possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, as you mentioned in your question, a good attempt has indeed been made in the past to bring forward this work of renovating the building of the former "Panania" Hospital and, of course, there is a real study of this. Also, this study today is a study that can be updated. And I say this because in the Ministry's intentions and in my portfolio, there is a specific intention that we should be able to use "Panano" at least part of it, after the modification and updating of the study, in order to house a special model autism centre there. You know that the autism centres in the country are too small and, of course, in Crete there is no public centre for this purpose. For this reason, at the beginning of last October, the 7th Health Region has submitted to the Region of Crete a document stating this intention, that is to say, the intention to submit a proposal for membership of the NRV of the renovation of the "Pannel" Hospital and the operation in it of the model day center for autism. We all understand that, if this is the case, it will be the first structure to exist in Crete. Of course, what is to be done is that, on the basis of the findings of the interdisciplinary committee set up for this purpose, in order specifically to give the proposal that will be submitted to the Region of Crete, the proposal will be submitted to the Region and the competent managing authority in order to benefit from funding. In communication with the Ministry and the District Administrator, he says he will examine the possibility of joining the next ESDP. We believe that this proposal will bring all the necessary conditions, so that it can be controlled for funding and so that we can see this old and wonderful, as you quite rightly said, a kept building of the "Pannel" Hospital is renovated and run for the needs of local society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u153	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have considered the answer of the Ministry of Culture, which has been notified to your Ministry and is supportive of the renovation of the building and its integration into the MAGP. I would also like to take note of the reply from the Ministry of Finance, which draws attention to the fact that there should be activities in keeping with the objectives of the building. The holder in his notary acts has foreseen that Articles 10 and 77 of Law 4182/2013 should be complied with. But I come to the essence of the proposals. Unfortunately, your answer is incomplete because it does not include the proposal of the administration of the Venizelos, which is the owner. The administration of the "Venezelio" did not just speak of autism center. Also, it is not true that it will be the first structure. There is another public building, that of the CEECE, which was set up in Heraklion Prefecture and, unfortunately, remains with everyone - and we all need to make our self-criticism for this - for many years without utilization. This is a new, modern building that remains untapped. So the proposal from the Venizelos - because here we are talking about a large building - cannot be confined to the center of the day for autism. Okay, the day center for autism wants specific squares. But that's not all. There is also the centre for relief and support, which is necessary. There is also the proposal for an autonomous daily care unit. We're downtown, something I've highlighted, and the blood donation station and the haemorrhage centre are very important. So I would tell you that we have not only the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which you referred to, but also the decision of the Board of Directors of the Venizelos. I would therefore ask you to consider the whole question and take all your views and suggestions into account. I do not insist that the mother - child, the original proposal with which I am linked, should continue. I am also associated with the veterinary programme, but also with the whole procedure, because as President of the Agency I went so far and rescued it as a building. Of course, Mr President, I am also emotionally connected because I was born in this building on 14 May 1961. I would therefore like you to see the proposal of the Venizelos as a whole so that it can proceed in accordance with both the owner and the collective decisions of the administration, which are in the right direction. But what we need to do above all is to help bring it directly into the programme and the ESDP, because, if we leave it in the slow-moving processes, as you know, we will say again that we have lost the deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Kegeroglu, there was no reproach that you were born on that date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I said that I was emotionally connected to the building. I have referred to this, Mr President, and I have asked that we be allowed by the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u157	Madam Minister, you understand that you should change your written speech a little, because Mr Kegeroglu added emotion. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u158	I think I'll cover you, Your Honor. In fact, I too had the pleasure of visiting the beginning of October Heraklion, namely the Pannonio, and I really understand your emotional burden, because, apart from having grown up there, it is an excellent building, a jewellery building for Heraklion and, of course, since it is properly restored, it can also be used for these proposals that you mentioned. You know, of course, that the "Pannaio" Municipal Hospital, now owned by the "Venezelio", was built in 1895 by exclusive use, as you rightly said, of health services, as specified in the donor's will. Then, of course, he came to Venizelos. For this reason, the President, the representative of the Health Region, Mrs Borbudakis, has set up this interdisciplinary committee, to which I referred earlier, in which the Commander of the "Venizelou", as well as professors of the Pediatric Medical School of the University of Crete, are involved, as well as the directors of the psychiatric field, and not only. As you quite rightly said, the other uses you mentioned should be considered. I can assure you, therefore, that your reports and proposals, as well as the proposals of the Venizelos, will also be considered within the framework of this interdisciplinary committee, since the committee will be participating, which I am sure is fully aware of, and of the proposals to which you are referring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u159	We continue with the fifth under No 233/7-12-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Aiolic in Andros: Scientists point to the dangers to the protected spiral". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, we had immediately these days the announcement and by the "EUROPA NOTRA" that they are entering the European monuments, Tinos, Amorgos, Sikinos, Kimolos and Kythera, because of the wind turbulence. In fact, the question of wind turbines in the islands continues to become anarchy. Because they are very fragile landscapes, obviously I myself am in favour of having wind turbines or photovoltaics to meet the energy needs of the island itself, so that they have energy self-sufficiency. However, transforming these fragile landscapes massively into wind turbines, I think it is something anarchy, thoughtless and, as we see in the case of Andros, destructive. I will focus on environmental impacts, because for many of these islands it is a dry place. But for rare species of birds, the islands, the rocky islands are their last shelters. In Andros, we have a rare spiral concentration. We say it is rare, because it is a species that is in terrible shrinkage, at risk of disappearance and is protected by European legislation. We see, right at the core of the habitat, that wind turbines and wind farms are currently being licensed, when basic threats to the sprinkler - such as electrocution, the impact on electric cables, wind turbines, the degradation of divests, nuisance near the nest sites, road openings and other projects - are linked to wind turbines and their accompanying works. Go, that is, and place a wind farm right in a 'hot spot', at a focus of ecological importance to protect this rare and threatened species, the sprinkler. Go on in this way, Mr. Secretary, to defame every attempt of green energy. All efforts! Bring every society to you! As far as possible, with these ecological characteristics, you can license any park. You show, in other words, how authorisations are made at the foot, how you do not examine the evidence. Do not consider whether or not what is described in environmental impact studies is present. Here we have a LIFE programme for the protection of the sprinkler, which involves the Ministry and the Ministry in this programme which itself participates, namely, for the protection of the sprinkler, it puts on the wind turbines and accompanying works, which is its first threat. I really want to invite you to come back to reason. What you do damage the fight for climate change and any environmental protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u161	Mr Colleague, please finish. The rest of you can tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u162	I shall conclude with one sentence, Mr President. It is not possible for wind parks to be located unreservedly in protected areas of Ornithony. It's a double violation of logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u163	All right, Mr. Arseny. You had time unlimited. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I also know your concern and sensitivity to environmental issues. I would like to say to you that the use of domestic renewable energy potential is, as you know, a national energy target. Diversification of the national energy mix is the crucial requirement in the transition towards security of energy supply. We must, of course, also strengthen and develop the national economy. Our country has committed, as you know, as regards the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 20% in 2020, based on European targets and European Directive 2009/28/EC. In this context and in accordance with the new European Directive 2018/2001 on the use of RES, the Member States committed themselves to a share of renewable energy sources in gross final energy consumption at least 32% in 2030. This objective has also been included in the National Energy and Climate Plan, as presented in December 2019. So, in order to achieve these objectives, we need to set up by 2030 in addition to the existing stations, new RES projects of around 9 000 MW. At the technology level you are aware that, in order to achieve this objective, the use of new wind and photovoltaic power stations is required at around 90% of other technologies projects and about 10% of the new installed power. I do not need to say, therefore, that the RES stations are not established wherever everyone wants, but a comprehensive assessment procedure takes precedence over the investment concerned and, of course, the issue of the permit for installation and operation or its rejection. This is taken into account environmental, spatial, functional and aesthetic criteria in the wind farms, in the applicable Special Spatial Framework - because you know that there is a Special Spatial Toll for the RES - and with a special reference to the ability of each area, i.e. the maximum number of typical wind turbines, with the aim of each section creating those which can withstand - in or out of import - with safety margins and less possible effects on wind turbines in the space, the landscape and the environment. As regards the placement of wind parks and in particular of NATURA 2000 areas, there are specific forecasts for the submission of a specific ecological study, which assesses the impact on the natural environment and the ecosystem. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In particular, the geo-information system of RAE shows that in the Municipality of Andros the coverage of the allowed capacity is 32% for the Municipal Unit Andros, 42% of the Municipal Unit of Corfu and about 84% for the Municipal Unit of Hydrous. In accordance with Environmental Law 4685, the non-exceeding capacity of the local authority for each proposed project is an essential condition for the certification of derivatives. We have not exceeded the capacity and we cannot issue this certificate. Of course, in what you have referred to, because of time, I will respond to my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u165	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes. Follow your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, Mr. Undersecretary, it's not right to respond with this tactic. We see a policy that is being followed and I call on the Bureau to intervene in this. It is not possible for the ministers to use their terminology in order to answer the questions they want or even there to answer the question and to waste our time in general terms on the prototype, since the honourable Member does not have the right to have a debate on the substance. So you're saying that the carrying capacity has not yet been covered in Andros. You know, the ability to carry has nothing to do with what we are discussing, beyond the fact that we need to look at what had been done in RES's spatial planning and whether it is correct. Obviously the way in which the ability to carry on these islands and elsewhere is also calculated is completely wrong. Here we have areas protected, Mr Minister, where your ministry runs a LIFE programme. In this place where you are invited to be protected through the LIFE programme, place wind turbines, which are accompanied by the cause, as we see, of danger and the protected object, of the sprinkler. You didn't say a word about it. How do you go about that? Secondly, on the basis of the study carried out by the University of Ioannina, there is no need in these sensitive areas, namely in the protected areas, for a single wind turbines to be placed in order to achieve the objectives of the European Union - and, obviously, across all future generations - for the determination of pollutants. But these areas don't need it. There's plenty of space to achieve the goals from elsewhere. Why do you have unreserved wind turbines and protected areas? Thirdly, we are being exposed here, even if the Ministry does not assume its responsibilities. We have the University of Crete, and in particular, the Museum of Natural History of Crete, the Ornithological Museum, to tell us that it is impossible to implement the objectives of the program "LIFE Bonelli EastMed", because exactly how to protect people - and you, of course, who are a partner in the program - the Spinach, when we are currently going to have the installation of wind turbines, which, based on the results of the program so far, is the first cause of danger along with their accompaniment to the spiral project. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to bring you back to common sense. It is not possible on the pretext of climate change to destroy biodiversity and, ultimately, to break down the biosystemic services that protect us from climate change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be more detailed. Of course, I must focus on this issue, my dear colleague, at the moment. As far as the Aeolian Station in Frangaki is concerned, with a total capacity of 1MW, consisting of five wind turbines, has been licensed since 2007, amended by an AIA certificate in 2013 and 2016, due to the change of type and number of wind turbines - I referred to my prototype - and, at the same time, to the reduction of the area occupied by an installation field. With regard to environmental licensing, in 2018 the decision to approve environmental conditions for two wind power stations of 15MW and five generators of each in the areas of Frankaki and Rahi - Xerocobi of the Municipality of Andros was adopted, respectively. These positions fall within a NATURA 2000 specific network protection area, when the necessary ecological impact studies have been submitted. Due to the simultaneous submission of the dossiers and the Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Authorisation Directorate, compliance with the consultation procedure and the adoption of a decision approving the environmental conditions were taken at the same time to assess overall the impact of the construction and operation of these projects. Additional information was submitted during the proceeding, including updated ornithological observations. With regard to the impact on the orphanage, the Ministry of the Environment's Biodiversity Directorate gave a favourable opinion, having of course taken into account the management plan of the Andros Special Protection Zone, which was implemented with the assistance, as you mentioned, of the LIFE financial instrument. For the environmental conditions of GDP and on the basis of these conditions, an automated radar system for the detection of birds is set up in real time. The integrity and consistency of the region shall be ensured. Annual environmental monitoring studies are planned, both in the construction phase and in the operation phase of the project. If data on effects on protected species in the area are obtained from such studies, the change provided for in the existing procedure will be followed. The evaluation of the findings of the "LIFE Bonelli EastMed" programme is under way by the RIS Biodiversity Directorate and will be incorporated into subsequent opinions. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, by drawing up a specific environmental study, one of the many evolving for the NATURA regions of the South Aegean Region, expected to be ready in 2021, a presidential decree will be drawn up setting out the permitted activities within the study area and institutionalising its management plan. We are not talking about extreme functions and, in any case, about issues that will be left to chance. All are monitored and checked in accordance with the permit and under the conditions laid down in this Regulation. In the context of this rational and balanced development, then, there is and is constantly improving so that the energy transition to renewable energy can be supported while respecting the natural environment and much more in sensitive environmental areas. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. We move on to the debate of the first under number 1132/234-27-10-20 question and application for documents in the circle of petitions and questions by the MP II Thessaloniki of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "How is the public interest in the supply of equipment for the Selection at the Source of the Special Status of Attica (EDN)?" The question will be answered by the State Secretary. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to say from the outset that I do not understand why you did not answer this question in writing. I should like to say, Mr President, that, because it is an application for documents, I would like you to tell me what is going to happen with these documents or the Minister to tell us. I wonder if it is not a serious issue for the Ministry to dismantle millions of euros on waste and recycling systems that violate the institutional framework. That's why you replied in writing, isn't it? I therefore have to remind you of all the debate that has taken place here in this House for 2020, because the parliamentary control has shown that there is a very serious delay - at least eighteen months - in the approval of operational plans for recycling systems, that there is a serious problem in the performance of equipment to the municipalities - which we all care about recycling - while all these functions were launched by the previous government and reached the Board of Directors of Eoan and there is a serious problem of cooperation between the Ministries with the Recycling Agency and, indeed, the Ministry of Interior with the Ministry to which you are today. In fact, this long-term delay and that pilot projects are being commissioned without your Ministry knowing has been accepted here, in this Chamber, by the State Secretary, Mr Economou, who had come to answer a corresponding question. Therefore, with ignorance of the Ministry of Environment and the Recycling Agency, pilot recycling plans are being implemented by the Ministry of Interior, for which the Recycling Agency has not consulted. Finally, after our pressure, Mr President, the operational plan for reciprocity has been submitted, and we do not know whether the OTA pilot projects have been through. The Minister for the Interior came here and said that any programme put forward to him a proposal with a zero financial burden will make it acceptable. But, Minister, I ask you - and in writing, obviously, I have done this - that is: is it not known that the resources of recycling systems are resources that we all have, so it is not free of charge for the citizens? Isn't the Interior Minister aware of that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm on the question, Mr. President. Second question: does the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Interior not know that the systems are, in any case, obliged to give the municipalities free of charge, so also to the inter-universal associations and to the ministries, the recycling equipment, why have they already collected the resources from the municipalities? For this reason, we have tabled a question: How is it in the competition made by the Special Inter-State Association of Attica Law, on 23 June, the ENTSO for Equipment of 111 million, with the option of doubling, providing for means of equipment that the laws say should be paid by the recycling systems and that the NRP itself says that no competitions can be made for this equipment, because recycling systems must provide them free of charge because they have collected the resources from us and from the producers? So the question is simple: did the Ministry of the Environment know that? Does the Recycling Agency know about it? In fact, what attitude are you holding when the Vice-President of the Association is the President of the Recycling Agency? So the one who sets the limits is also entrusting to a contest that runs counter to his own obligations? Because we see in category V an amount of 34.5 million, doubled by option, which is the same as the equipment that the 'DEVELOPMENT' system should give the municipalities free of charge. So what are you doing? Do you finance "by the back door" systems that do not yet have an operational plan? Do you know all this, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u171	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I am of course aware of the sensitivity, because you have also been aware of these issues, since you have served at the Ministry. You know that issues relating to waste management are a time-consuming problem that we are trying to resolve and modernise the institutional framework and all the tools that help the target, all the things that you have referred to - because there are many - self-government and links, and the EEAN and the Interior Ministry - of course, in the same direction of governmental planning, and the National Waste Management Plan, which has been voted on, but also the Regional Waste Management Plan, the local plans, all of this is on a transition to stabilise in the new data and to make use of what is new. We therefore respect the subject to which you have referred, and of course also the issue of recycling, with an adaptation to European data. You are well aware of the issue of waste in general, because it comes from the past, but it has still not been checked as it should be, and there are many movements in waste management lately for a definitive solution. Until last year, we were talking about recycling 20% and burying 80%. These percentages need to be changed. We are aware of the problems that exist in the Race from the waste, which have been expanded suffocatingly. We also know that the conditions set out in the Regional Plan were flawed and adapted. So the government comes with the National Plan I mentioned, but also with the others that adapt to it, to solve this problem. With regard to the possibility of municipalities charging lower municipal fees, with the latest bill, for those who produce less, i.e. 'paying', higher burial charges are imposed on the municipalities that drive waste to land, with the aim of changing this practice. There are other procedures for separation on the subject of recycling by collecting waste into four currents. You referred to the subject of contracts, competitions, the Ministry of the Interior. I know that in the same direction each institution and the Ministry of Interior - as far as I know you have asked questions there, and they will be able to give you more details and give you, because it is not my responsibility to be able to answer you - but in the same direction all this is evolving. In the case of ‘EXPONSITIVE RECURRENCE’, the revised operational plan submitted by the entity shall be assessed by the relevant EEW management again and as a whole as provided for. In the next few months, the procedures provided for are expected to be completed so that as soon as possible the EEW Management Board can take the relevant decisions. With regard to EEAN itself, and with the authorisation of this collective alternative management system, I would point out that over the past year, the EEAN has evaluated and licensed more such systems than in the previous period. As far as subsequent details are concerned, I will then be able to give them to you. In any case - I said it from the outset, and I will supplement it - all the information you request, when the decisions are taken, will be at your disposal, in particular, so that we can both assess the comments you have referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u173	I would just like to inform you, Mr President, before the time begins that on the basis of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, the Member who has submitted a question or a request for documents is entitled to put a question, if he considers that the Minister's reply is not sufficient or that the documents requested or some of them have not been delivered to him in due course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, let us give a margin to the Minister's second answer. I would like to state in advance my willingness to ask a question, Minister, because you have not responded to anything I asked. The question, Minister, is a little bit specific, and I want your contribution, because I assume you share a concern with me. That is what you have shown at least in the first answer. You said he doesn't have information and knowledge, the RIS, the Ministry of the Environment. For this competition, which is 112 million for recycling systems and equipment, does the Ministry of the Environment know? Answer me. Secondly, can you tell me that you do not know and address the Ministry of the Interior, when the Vice-President of the body which publishes it is the President of the Recycling Agency that you are supervising? So I'm going to ask another body for the President of the Recycling Agency, which is in your own political care and supervision? Thirdly, the Ministry of Interior we asked, told us that he knows nothing and asked Decentralized. I have a document on that, Mr. Tagaras. So here you also told us that we were in a transition process and that is why the plans are changing. I ask: While we are in a transition process and there is no approved Regional Attica Plan, from what you say, or will change - why is there a Douro, the previous administration - a EUR 112 million contest without a plan? So what exactly are you doing? Isn't that contrary to the public interest? An amount of EUR 112 million with the right to optional doubling without a plan, so to speak? So there is a serious problem here, and I specifically ask you: are you aware of this competition and what attitude you take, since recycling equipment is provided within it, which systems must give to the municipalities free of charge? But there are other issues. Did you ask the municipalities? I want you to tell me in particular, are there any ETUC correspondence with the municipalities before the competition takes place about what they need? Have local plans of the municipalities been modified, which you oversee, to pick up this equipment? Why are you binding the municipalities on a recycling system, which you even said has not authorized its operational plan? How was the cost chosen? I see here that the cost is 300,000 euros a machine. Minister, have you done market research on how much he's doing? If we bring you a subtle, subtle, subtle bid, what will you say, Minister? So where is public money being dispersed for recycling and does the Ministry of the Environment say that he does not know what is going on in recycling? I ask you for your authority, Minister, absolutely your competence. The General Secretariat for Waste at the Ministry of the Environment has come. So you are not entitled to tell us that you do not know. That is why I said, Mr President, that we will absolutely be asking a question. In particular, can you answer us now: does the Operational Programme of the "Reconstruction" anticipate all this? Is it going to give the municipalities free of charge the equipment, as it should be? Why does EDNA come in and buy equipment for tens and hundreds of millions of euros on behalf of systems? Why is this preferential management at the expense of the municipalities, which do not have local plans to receive them? And from what we learn, Mr Tagaras - and answer that - EDNA sends a programme contract to the municipalities to commit them to receiving this equipment against their programming, against their needs, and it is likely that they will impose a retrospective tender that has not been planned and that the design you have just admitted is in progress? So here I see that some after a holiday are running to cover a matter. So I repeat the question: Do you know the contest? Have you been informed as a competent body? Do you think this competition should take place? What does the President of the EEAN say? Why are local money being given to systems or system equipment that are obliged to give him free of charge? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as I said before, there is an ongoing assessment of the operational plan of the "REFERENCE" body by the competent services of the EEAN and the necessary decisions will soon be taken by the Agency's board of directors. You will be fully aware of the results and the evaluation. As regards the person of the President of the Board of Directors of the EEAN, who holds a non-executive post and as an elected Vice-President of the Single Cross-State Association of the Attica Law, we stress that there is no incompatibility. Decisions are also taken by the competent collective bodies, i.e. the Management Board of the EEAN and the Executive Committee of the EDNA, and not by persons. But especially for the EDNA and the specific competition you are addressing with your question, the information we have received from him shows that, firstly, this competition is compatible with the existing Attica RCF and the local waste management plans of the municipalities, which are also in a process of revision in order to keep up with the new National Waste Management Plan. Secondly, the selection of the public procurement notice, through the framework agreement procedure, was consciously made by the ENTSO to choose to have flexibility in the implementation of the programme, since both the Regional Waste Management Plan and the local management plans are up-to-date and in compliance with the National Waste Management Plan. Third, the use of the method of the Framework Agreement will allow ENTSO to obtain only the part of the equipment to be considered by the municipalities themselves as compatible and satisfying their needs. Fourthly, the cost of financing the contract will first be borne by the entity’s own resources, while other sources of financing such as the NSRF will be sought. Fifth, the estimated contract budget was formulated by the pensioners following a combined market survey in line with the requirements of the municipalities of Attica, as derived from local management plans published at the time of the auction. In conclusion, I would stress that the government has an integrated waste management plan. There are ongoing steps in this area and they are evolving. I understand and understand the peculiarity of your question. As the evaluations are under way and there will be decisions, you will have as soon as the answers to all the questions I cannot give you at the moment. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u177	The third question under number 1080/26-10-2020 will be discussed with the question of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA's MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Financing the carbonisation of the island's electricity system through the European Emissions Trading System (EU ETS)’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, you will allow me, in the Minutes, to ask you and indeed the Minister, if possible, to submit the document of the EDNA to which he referred. It is an information we are entitled to as Members of Parliament. Because he mentioned it, he must have it in his hands. Mr Tagara, I think you should put this document in the Minutes, so that we too can know. I say this because it has to be tabled, Mr President. The second question we have tabled also cannot be understood why you have not answered it in writing. This is a matter which seems to have escaped the Minister's attention, although Mr Hatzidakis signed a year ago, if I am not mistaken, the ministerial decision implementing this directive to which we are referring. It is a crucial issue, because, Mr President, it concerns financial resources that our country is entitled to claim and should not be lost. Indeed, it is resources that the European Union has agreed to a Council of Ministers and a directive to be given to Greece, in order to achieve the great objective of climate neutrality, in particular the carbonisation of the electricity system on the islands. You know we have fossil fuel plants in the polluting islands. They're costly. They're old oil. They're burdening the climate. Of course there are also the services we pay through the bills. Many of the units must be withdrawn by 2030. The last extension we have is this. We are already paying too much for this. I must tell you that the SYRIZA Government has fought a great battle so that our country has access to financial instruments, that we overturn - if possible - the adverse decision of the October 2014 Summit and that we can actually win part of the allocation of rights to individual tools. We have achieved a great victory in the agreement on this issue for the trade in pollutants. It is a victory with access to indisposed rights, a financial instrument similar to that of the Modernisation Fund. In practical terms, Minister, what we are talking about is more than EUR 600 million. The 25 million are emission allowances. It can be used to carbonize the islands. It is provided for in the Directive of the Pollution Trading System. It will have 60% co-financing at current prices, so about 1 billion for interconnections, storage projects and renewable energy projects, particularly on our islands. Greece must claim this amount and plan these projects. I have heard your announcements about Crete, the Cyclades, about the Recovery Fund. I must tell you that we had planned other projects such as the Dodecanese and the northern Aegean. These islands must have interconnected access to the electricity network. But also non-interconnected ones can thus gain access to storage in renewable energy sources and not only in terms of purchase, but also with the care of the state. We don't see you taking any initiative. In 20 days the deadline for applying for the Commission shall expire. So we ask you what you intend to do, because it seems to us unthinkable that you have been so late. So will you claim the resources that Greece is entitled to? It is not enough, as you can see, for the resources available to us. It'll be for the benefit of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u179	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Your question is important, Your Honour. Although the country's energy system has a strong dimension of greenhouse gas emissions management and thus of tackling climate change. It is also a matter for the competent unit with regard to the Market and Emissions Unit of the Climate Change and Quality Department. It also comes under the Directorate-General for Environmental Policy. I come in response and want to start with three points. Firstly, Greece's failure to include in the Modernisation Fund in the original decision was clearly due to the forecast of 2013 as the base year for the calculation of per capita GDP and whether or not Greece exceeds the 60% threshold of the Community average. Our country in 2013 exceeded this threshold marginally. We all know the circumstances. As a result, it was not included in all countries that would receive free greenhouse gas emission allowances, which could also be used to implement climate change projects, reduce carbon footprint and improve energy systems. Secondly, the political decision on the Modernisation Fund was taken at the summit on 23 and 24 October 2014. As you know, national elections came a little later. So there was no great room for the government to claim the change of base year at that time. Thirdly, for the record alone, I would mention that outside the government it was crucial and the mobilisation of Greek MEPs. I would remind you that an amendment was tabled to the European Parliament plenary on 8 February 2017, which made it necessary to define as base years for the allocation of rights in 2014 and 2015. The amendment was tabled at the initiative of the MEPs, Maria Spyraki and Nikos Androulakis, and all of the country's MEPs co-signed it. It was voted in favour and incorporated into Parliament's official positions on the revision of the Emission Rights Mechanism. Fourthly, Directive 2018/410 provided for a special mechanism for Greece with the allocation of up to 25 million allowances that would not have been registered by 31 December 2020. These rights can be used by Greece to finance projects on electrical interconnections on the islands. You referred to that, too. This is an important development for Greece, in relation to the initial formulation of the Modernisation Fund, but also to the fairly restrictive regulation in relation to those applied to the other countries. The scope of the operations which may be financed is limited to projects in the islands and specific conditions are laid down for the use of this instrument. As to what the Ministry of the Environment intends to do and what it does, I shall refer immediately to my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u181	Thank you. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, Minister, I think we need to find a way to respond to the first phase, so that we know what to ask you in the second phase. Aren't you gonna tell me the basic thing, whether you're using it or not? Never, Minister, will you tell me? Secondary? That is why there is a procedure to place Members. Mr President, I would ask you very much, and I would ask you, if the Minister will answer the previous question. You said nothing, Minister. Will you hide the document from the House? Second matter. Finally, I wonder whether you will answer whether or not you will use this dreadful tool, the important tool that the SYRIZA government has claimed and won. You said a lot about the MEPs of other parties, Mrs Spirakis, Mr Androylakis, if I am not mistaken. I'm not underestimating their intervention. The SYRIZA MEPs had also signed. You want to talk a little bit about the story? The story, then, is that at the October 2014 summit, when the European Union's 2030 objectives were decided on and the legislative package, under the responsibility of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, Greece was excluded from this tool, precisely because the per capita GDP threshold was set at 60% of the European Union as a criterion. This is also about the President, because it is about Megalopolis, Mr President. So Greece has not reclaimed free rights that other countries have taken and will probably make the process of exit from lignite and the course towards climate neutrality more smooth. We would have cheaper energy, Mr Tagaras, and we lost this under the responsibility of the Samara - Venizelos government in 2014. We all tried to overthrow this decision. It was also an element of the bankruptcy of our country, which you led as a former government. We have succeeded and claimed in the directive on the European Air Pollution Trading System for Greece to win some 600 million funding for the islands and we are now coming and asking you: will you claim this funding, because for a year and a half you have done nothing, as if you do not know how to read European directives? A year ago you made a ministerial decision to incorporate this directive. You didn't do anything and we're coming now and we're asking you. Even if what we have won, will you claim it or do you want us to lose more money like Greece, lose more rights? Of course, Mr Tagaras, I must tell you that, beyond what you tried to cover the responsibilities of the Samara government - Venizelos - which was unacceptable - with the amendment by Mrs Spyros and Mr Androullakis, to God, as if we did not know what we took at the summits along with the ministry's staffing potential and our ambassadors to win what we are asking you today whether or not to implement, there is also a question that is more advanced. As far as we can see, Mr President, from the results of the summit, from the overall results of the Councils of Ministers, Europe sets more difficult targets for 2030, that is, more advanced penetration of RES, more emissions reduction and more savings. The regulation on the trade in greenhouse gases will therefore also be amended, as will the regulation on land-use change and forest absorption. So here, because we do not want to pay again as a country the inertia of 2014 of your own government, Mr Tagaras - I say this because you were also on the Ministerial Council - we ask you: you have committed yourself to a violent, unprojected deflation plan. Europe is making more aggressive, more greener targets. Will you now claim additional funding? So the one thing I want you to answer is what you will do with this funding that the SYRIZA government has claimed and guaranteed. It is unprecedented that there should be an article in a directive referring to a country with direct funding and electricity for the islands' interconnections and electricity network. Secondly, you must now tell us what you are going to claim, because I must tell you that in yesterday's announcement by Mr Hatzidakis and other ministers in the face of the Council of Ministers which is also developing today, if I am not mistaken, we have not seen anything, Mr President, that you are interested in megalopolis and Arcadia, the social factor. The communication was all about the economic viability of the transition and not about the basic slogan of Europe that is 'no one left behind'. We must take political initiatives so that no one can stay behind and be society up on this transition, because energy poverty is hitting our door. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u183	Thank you. I won't say anything about Megalopolis. I have an opinion, but I'm president today. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u184	Mr Colleague, I will continue from the previous ones. Two specific conditions were laid down in the 2018 Directive to use this tool. Firstly, the allocation of free rights can be requested due to limited country access to the international bond markets, which does not allow the financing of these projects. Secondly, the European Investment Bank confirms the economic viability and the socio-economic benefits of the project for which funding is requested. I say this because you have also referred to social issues and I agree with you. Even if electricity connections have economic viability and significant socio-economic benefits, there is a problem with the need to support and substantiate its limited access to international bond markets, which is obviously not the case for Greece today, which is borrowed at almost zero market rates. The inclusion of this condition might have made sense in 2017 and 2018 under different macroeconomic conditions for the country, so it was a possible failure to borrow from the markets. Today, however, economic data are very different. Think of the possible consequences if, today, December 2020, Greece submitted a request to the European Commission and claimed that it cannot be financed by the markets. On the other hand, this instrument entails considerable resources - you said six hundred, I would say that it may be more than seven hundred million euros - which would facilitate the financing of the island's electrical interconnections. This is a very important sum, which obviously cannot be ignored. In this context, the relevant services of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, that is, the Climate Change Directorate and the Energy Directorate, are in contact with the competent services of the European Commission, to investigate whether the condition for restricted access to markets can be lifted. If the country is able to make use of this tool, a request will be made to the European Commission, as well as a dossier to the European Investment Bank for a specific project from those which have not already been integrated into financing either through the ESDP or as projects of common interest. The programme for the development of IPTO for the period 2021-2030 shows that there are mature projects that could proceed by absorbing funding from the exploitation of rights. Finally, with regard to the European Commission's claiming related financial instruments in the green agreement and proposals for the revision of the 2030 climate targets, it is obviously a key process for the Ministry and the competent services. Because it's in progress, as I said, a lot to ensure the best, when we have the evidence, I'll let you know. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-11-S1-commons.u186	With the agreement of the House at 14.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for Friday, December 11, 2020 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2021", according to the agenda distributed.
