ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. The Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the timely questions we have today. It's twenty-seven in number. Mr Koutnajis' document is being filed in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u2	We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Mr. Metarakis, have you come to an agreement on a change?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u3	I'm in the front, normally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u4	Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u5	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u6	The matter has been overdue. I hope that you will be brief today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u7	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm sorry we took you down. We are starting the debate with the seventh timely question of a second question, number 1039/14-9-2020, by MP B3' South Athens, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Moussala, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Procedures for several groups of refugees and migrants who indiscriminately return after their arrival on the Greek territory'. The Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. Panagiotis (Noti) Mr. Metarakis will answer. Please, before we begin, because we have been too late and there are twenty-seven time questions, I inform you that time will be strictly respected. Mr Muzalas has the floor for two minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Metarakis, I will make an effort to be very specific. I'll use the first little party of my time. I would also ask you to be specific to questions, so that we do not have a deaf dialogue. My question is very simple and very clear. According to the European Convention on Human Rights by the Council of Europe, the European Union and the Geneva Convention have both been ratified by our country and constitute national law, deterrence at sea is a criminal offence. Under Naval law, deterrence at sea is a criminal offence, which the European Court of Human Rights avenges. We already have an unfinished country like this sad Pharmacy case in 2014. So on the basis of what, like it - it does not like - it is compulsory for our state to investigate whether they are push back, abstentions, at sea. I will not go into complaints from non-governmental organisations or Turkish publications which serve their own purpose. But I shall refer to statements by the Head of Frontex, who directly tells our country that he is push back to the sea. I can present them, Mr President. I will refer to the Danish ship of FRONTEX, which directly says that he took orders from the Greek administration to take the Turks and prevent them from push back or return them back to Turkish waters and refused, which then the Danish Minister for Foreign Affairs denounced. I shall refer to the letter that Mr Chrysochoidis has sent, but the Council of Europe has also notified you, which directly accuses us of asking for a push back investigation at sea. And I am very sorry to hear from the Minister of Government, Mr Placiotakis, that before 2015 they were push back. This is a statement he made in February 2020. Before 2015, you were government again. But it was said with great pride that from January 2020 until today, our port, which did four hundred and fifty thousand rescues at sea, managed and made three thousand sea diversions and Mr Placiotakis specified that out of the ten thousand abstentions, the three thousand were made in August. We would be very interested to know what the Minister means, because what we are reading is a violation of the rule of law, a breach of national law, a breach of Europe's law, a breach of the Geneva Convention, a violation of the laws of Naval Law. I'm stopping here. If you can be specific in answering without many "democracy" and "we are majority" and "we guard the borders" and all of that. We would be very interested in you to tell us how you are doing these atrocities, what these atrocities are, if it is not a criminal offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u11	Although you want to avoid criticising your question, saying not to make political thoughts, I would like to tell you that in this Chamber over the last three hours we have been discussing the issue of immigration and I said that the government's main priority is the substantial reduction in flows. It is a policy for the European Union as a whole that we do not want our country to be, as was the last four years on SYRIZA days, the entrance gate of hundreds of thousands of refugees and many illegally entering Europe. Your policy has finally led to the sealing of all European borders and very few relocations. We talked about this before, not coming back. I tell you that our country guards its borders and does so with full respect for the 2014 European Regulation, which defines what a Member State can and cannot do, and the Geneva Treaty, which in Article 33 specifically defines what is considered and is not considered to be a promotion. I will not, of course, go into any way describing how the Greek Security Body operates. It would be irresponsible for me to hear, in addition to you, this lively sitting of this House, and all the poachers, who are on the coast, who have lost 100,000 euros this year from the policy of this government and would very much like to hear exactly how our country, with absolute respect for its constitutional and sovereign rights, as recognised by the European Court of Human Rights, has been fully respected by the law of the sea, as it is in force in the European Union and, of course, respecting the conditions of the Geneva Convention, guards its borders. I want to tell you, however, that it is also Turkey's responsibility, according to the 2016 Joint Declaration, that there should be no boats at sea. It is an infringement of international law that there are a few boats that are still trying to start from the Turkish coast without documents, without the navigation documents, without the safety rules imposed by the International Maritime Safety Regulation, and allow people without a licence to drive a ship into the Aegean Sea. In the last four and a half years many souls have been lost in the Aegean Sea. Fortunately, this year is not the case, because the Greek port in the way it works has reduced the losses of human lives. This is particularly essential and important for a rule of law, such as Greece. All these weeks, our entire country has been discussing the new effort, the rhetoric of Turkey to work on immigration and you are coming here today to ask me why Greece is keeping its borders? When I got your question, I thought someone was kidding me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Muzalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr Metarakis, it is clear that we are coming here today as SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance not to ask you why you are guarding our borders, but to ask you why you are violating the rules of international law, why you are driving and becoming push back. You didn't mention it at all. Keep the patenting of non-push back, don't steal it from any other state in need of it. I want to remind you of this famous net you were going to put in to stop the boats, but also a number of things that you said and have not been done, and we have wrapped up and you have come and you have defended them here again. The question is clear: you are denounced not by NGOs, but by governments, by the head of FRONTEX, by captains of FRONTEX, who are responsible for guarding the border with us, that you are abducting push back. You cannot clarify what the difference is between the deterrent and the push back to the sea and rightly because there is no way to do this. And you go back to the known candy of 'we guarding the borders, while we did not guard them', which seems, therefore, that Mr Stefanis, who is now a State Secretary and on our day, was no leader of the army, was not guarding the borders, because we said, 'Don't guard the borders'. I worked with Mr. Stefan, and that sort of accusation I could never accept. Nevertheless, I come back and you will have to answer as much as you escape. You know, you have a way to twist a reality. We're not telling you why you're guarding the border. Borders do not exist in government that would not keep them. We're telling you: Do push back to the sea? Are you pushing people back into Turkish waters? Are our ships entering Turkey? Are we such great guys? Do people go to Turkey tonight? They put them in life boats to move them forward and push them to Turkey? Does it violate our official state so that Mr. Plakkatakis will come out and be proud of three thousand abhorrences? I would like to say this: No matter how much you raise the question that Muszalas dares to ask 'if we guard the border', Muszalas and SYRIZA does not ask this question. Muszalas and SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance ask the question: "Our state, government, administration defends the rule of law, which it must be, or conducts atrocities?" And we do not put it, the Council of Europe puts it, the Director of FRONTEX puts it, the German Government and the German parliament, put it in the Danish master of FRONTEX and the Danish Foreign Minister. You cannot answer this specifically, and this raises us legitimate concerns. I want to say this and I shall end, Mr President. Look at that. The diversions at sea, the push back at sea, are criminal offences based on all laws and all the fair and all the rules, at least in Europe and in our country. On the side of SYRIZA, they will be investigated and blamed. From the side of SYRIZA, we will not stop honouring the Port, which we know has done a hard job, but we will not stop reminding some people who, probably under pressure from government, operate in violation of their vows of being responsible. The responsibility is political, but it is also anyone who makes the deterrence at sea, which we said forty times in this House: "Tell us, you guys, what are you doing to prevent the sea and is in line with the Geneva Convention, is in line with the Law of the Sea, is in accordance with the law of Europe, is in accordance with the law of Greece?". You're not telling us. It's a patent that you're probably ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u14	You will allow me to say something, so that the House can see and those who are watching us. One thing is the relocation, when one enters the territorial waters and the asylum procedure has not yet been presented, and the other is the deterrence of borders. If you could clarify that, because it is another way to prevent re-enforcement and to prevent it from happening to our limit. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President, for your legal thoughts and I am absolutely proud of the way the orderly Greek state keeps its borders. You said you kept them, too. About a million came in 2015, eleven thousand have come in 2020. They're not the same numbers. So I guess we did something different, and I think your question, not imply it, but it clearly says that this government is doing something completely different. What's he doing? Exercises its sovereign rights, according to International Law. And I told you before and I reply to all those who say you are commenting that they consider that Greece is doing something different: we are applying the European Maritime Safety Regulation, we are applying the Geneva Treaty, we are applying International Law. And you choose to repeat the positions of a few people who may disagree with what we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u16	'Some people' is Germany?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u17	And our country, like every Schengen country, like any sovereign state, has rules on how you go in and how you come in a country. And we're not a clear vine country. And when I say it, SYRIZA MPs react. Well, it seems that you are in favour of the sense, again, of the open borders, that Greece should refill one million immigrants. We disagree with this policy. It sounded a little bit like a threat to what you said, to the men and women of the port, the police, the Armed Forces, who do their job, that, when SYRIZA comes, they will answer why they guard the border. I guess I got it wrong and you're gonna fix it. I imagine I understood it wrong and, Mr President, if Mr Muszalas is allowed to correct it, he will not be wrong in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u18	Is law enforcement a threat?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u19	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u20	I mean one last thing. There was a post by an American newspaper, which I think is also in your question. This is what the Turkish coastguard is saying as a source of information, and it also mentions some who, in their statement - I stress - have tried, he says, unsuccessfully to enter Greece five to six times. This is not the case, but if it were, it would send me another message, that Turkey would be absolutely safe for them. When one has tried to leave five times and five times he has returned and no one bothers him, it means that Turkey for these refugees and immigrants is a safe destination. And all the logic, Mr Muzala, of the Geneva Convention is that it is at risk for the country to go next door - Article 31 - country b. Direct says the Geneva Convention, as ratified in 1959 in Greek legislation. Not to make a global choice across the planet where he wants to go. So if it is not at risk in Turkey, it has no reason to enter the Greek area, it has no reason to submit a request for asylum to Greece. It should have been submitted to Turkey, and if, before Turkey, two more, three, four countries, in which it is not at risk according to the definitions of the Geneva Convention, nor should it have gone to Turkey. So you know what's happened, Mr. Muzala, over the last few years? Some 'rightmakers' took the Geneva Convention and left it out. It was forgotten at its ends and, unfortunately, there were people who felt negative in the sense of refugee, while the concept of refugee is sacred and our country, following a strict but fair immigration policy, where they are truly refugees, under the Geneva Treaty, will, of course, give asylum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. We are now entering two topical questions, which I can see, Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Minister, are similar. We've done it a few more times. If both sides have no objection, and Mr Kegeroglu and the Minister, without the time being shortened, that is to say, twice as much - if you want them to be debated uniformly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u22	Who are similar?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u23	It is the third question with reference to the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Inadmissible malfunctions in the awarding of the pension benefits of former employees of the OGA" and the second with number 1026/11-9-2020, the second question of the same MP to the same Minister, on the subject: "Supporting micro-retireees with the reinstatement of the Social Solidarity Fund (ESDP), the lowest pension and payment of the tenth third pension by ECA." We make them united twice as much time as we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u24	They have nothing to do with it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u25	All right, there's gonna be a tolerance. Minister, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u26	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u27	None of this has anything to do with it, Mr President. If you want, we don't talk about them at all. Minister, do the two questions have anything to do with this? I thought my colleague had the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u28	But they're both yours. Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu, you'll have as much time as you need.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u29	It's different questions. Now, what can I tell you? Is this a new method, in other words, when there are questions to the same Minister, to be gathered?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u30	Do you want separate?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u31	They're different. They have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u32	Okay, that's okay. I said it for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u33	The first question concerns the officials of the former GAAP, who, since the establishment of the ECA and then retired from the ECA, but have not been integrated into the IT system of the ECA. They remain with the old one and this means that pensions have not been recalculated since 1 January 2019, as there was an obligation, with direct consequences, of course, to their rights, such as no changes in the pensioners' shares, i.e. the grant of child benefits due to studies which may be up to twenty-four years, but also vice versa, no interruption of the child's benefits due to the completion of the twenty-four years. There are also no monthly detailed pension notes issued and no reservations made every month there for the purpose that they must be made. The EPC is not making any judicial decisions concerning former OGA officials, of course, no decisions on the granting of widow's pensions and pensions to former officials. Since a year has already been completed, ten and five months since your inauguration of your administration, these malfunctions are growing and continuing. They're swelling because of the increased number. We ask in particular: When will the computer system be migrated from the former OGA to the computer system of the OGA? When will the normal functioning of the ECA be restored to the pension issues of former GAAP officials? Mr President, I have spoken for a minute and forty seconds from my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Perhaps my answer will be one of the shortest I have ever given in the timely questioning process. The reality is that we inherited dozens of problems in July 2019, open wounds to the insurance system. The truth is that, with the insurance reform of Law 4670/2020, we have launched solutions for everything. The specific problem that my colleague mentioned on the part of the Change Movement is a real problem, an issue that we inherited and I want to inform the Greek Parliament that this issue only concerns a small category of OGA officials, today OPEKA, and the solution for the next two months, October - November 2020 has been launched. The migration goes through the computer system, and this government, the Ministry of Labour solved this problem as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, the Minister considers that the problems of small social groups on their own are not so serious because they concern small groups, as he has presented them to us. But, Minister, for each one of them, it is a huge problem for each family, so we must see with great sensitivity why the state does not fulfil its obligations towards these people. We shall refer to other categories on the basis of other questions. We're already talking about. So that is not a way, that is to say it is a small group, so it is okay that we have been late a year and a half now, and the previous government has made this arrhythmia with Mr.4387. I did mention that, unfortunately, Mr.4387 who was kept in his basic provisions, despite the fact that you said that you would abolish it, the well-known Karugalou law, caused huge problems in many categories of pensioners. It's one of those accusations. I now say: OK, you will come to November, twenty months after you took over and five years, four and a half after the problem, to fix it. Those who continue to receive child benefit, why is there no way - even though they send applications and notes - to stop it, will they have criminal responsibilities because you put it on them or will they just be asked back? Those who do not take it, on the other hand, because this computer system has not been incorporated into the new system, will they take it with such increments, or is it considered to be a given one, that, in any case, the public can thus be dissatisfied? These are issues pertaining to each family. It's not that simple, that is, we solved it, we fixed it. You haven't solved anything so far. But it is good that you commit yourself to giving a solution by October. However, it is negative that, while this issue was three years old, we had denounced it - and you - didn't come in July, August, September, October, November, and December 2019 to solve it. The question was raised on 2 July. You didn't answer her in writing. It is now timely and you are telling us one - within introductory - positive news. I will stay on this, in the positive - within introductory - news, but it is not so simple, because it is precisely because SYRIZA has created a mess, that you have time to continue the mess and you have for a long time, because reasonable time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u38	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u39	Mr Kegeroglu, Mr President, is used to alter the reality and the truth of what I have been telling the House many times. He's doing it one more time. In no case does the government and I personally and the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour ignore social groups and evaluate them on the basis of their numbers and numbers. On the contrary, we are dealing with every problem separately, and we are trying to resolve where we find the problem. However, I am amazed that Mr Kegeroglu is asking a question, and I tell him that the solution has been launched and is continuing to be misinterpreted. The solution lies ahead of us in the next two months, and in the next two months in October - November - this category of workers will find the answer to the problem, a problem which - I repeat - we inherited and instead of greeting it, he hates and says that it has to be resolved more ahead. His right, but things in the computer system are not easy, they want time, they want to move the systems, they want new systems, and this government, and the e-ECA in particular, and the administration of e-ECA, which took over in September 2019, has dealt with some of these problems and we solve them one by one, just like this one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u40	We move on to the next question I mentioned before. It is the second question under number 1026/11-9-2020 of the second question by the Member of the Hercules Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Support for micro-retired people with the reinstatement of the Social Solidarity Fund (EKA), underwriting and payment of the thirteenth pension by EKA". The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Brutsi. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Because of the interruption of the microphone, I say a phrase that I did not say. You have not responded, Minister, if you say that in November you will restore it, you will also lift the effects on these people due to illegal retention or payment of benefits and if retrospectives are taken along with others since they are not recalculated at the moment they are not included in those who take them. So it's not a misdemeanor. On 2 July you tabled a motion for a resolution which you did not answer, and you must first of all tell us why you did not answer. Shouldn't you answer within twenty-five days of writing? It's a written question. You didn't answer and you're getting out that I'm being flattered. Bravo! Micro-retired people: We have again discussed here here here that there is a need to restore the injustice to the micro-retired persons who came from the abolition of the CSR, from the abolition of the lower threshold on pensions. And the injustice goes on, since while you had previously committed that even this tenth-third pension will not stop it, but you will continue to give it, you have declared that you are stopping, you have voted and you are abolishing it. The increases in pensions due to an improvement in the rate of replacement are for workers with thirty years in the law passed in Genoa, February. As a rule, they do not concern low-pension workers. We also have the issue of retrospectives, where at first you spoke about 1 billion 400 million, and then you limited it to one billion. You only give the main pensions. Low-pensioners don't get in retrospectives. In other words, we have a series of negative effects on the micro-retired people, who continue to experience the range of poverty, because by abolishing from SYRIZA back to 486, of the lowest threshold, we now have pensions and disability and old age and death 180 euros, 300 euros, 370 euros, to the best. How many pensions are under 500 euros today? They're touching a total that's a million two thousand. For these small pensioners, we ask for the government's intentions, whether it will restore the ESS or a new CSR, if the lower threshold for pensions is restored. We have proposed that the EUR 500 be. What else does the government intend to do to restore injustice against pensioners, which has been committed all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u42	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, unfortunately, for Mr Kegeroglu, the image of being represented by his party, asking the same question more than three or four times, is not the best. It shows in practice that it seeks to have party benefits through a logic that - let me say - is the definition of irresponsibility. It is quite simply, Mr President, that I would ask Mr Kegeroglu today to tell me how much his proposal is. So I say this: he is a party representative who claims the Greeks' vote - and I will stop here - he brings a proposal which makes a flagship flag and which he submits as a question four times, I ask him to tell me how much this proposal he brings to Parliament and ask him a question. I'm staying here, and I'm going to answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u45	I understand the personal nature of the Minister's position and his irritation. It's obvious he has a problem, but that's none of my business. I would like the representative of the government to tell us whether he intends to restore injustice against the small pensioners, when and how. It's specific. We have therefore tabled a proposal for a law which, as we are told by the services of this House, is not discussed until now because the Ministry of Labour has not said that the proposal for a law will be discussed. So we have tabled a proposal for a law, and we have tabled an amendment with the same subject. He is right to say that we are insisting on three and four and five times for this injustice, to see if there will be a restoration. He's absolutely right about that. We will continue to insist, Minister. You have an obligation or rather you are able, when you table an amendment, to send it to the General Accounting Office of the State to carry out the evaluation and cost calculation. Can you tell me, Minister, if you have sent the proposal for a law that we have tabled to you, if you have sent the amendment that we have tabled to you twice? Should I tell you the last thing I have in my hands, 25-2-2020? Will you tell us what the report from the General Accounting Office is? You can't tell us. Do you know why? Because you haven't sent. According to your calculations and your own thoughts, if our proposal, for example, has 1.5 billion costs per year, can you tell us what the possibilities of insurance are, what the state's possibilities are - because this is an EAW, which also means a budget, not just an insurance system - and what the cost of your own proposal is? You can't tell us. Do you know why? Because you haven't worked out alternative scenarios. If you have worked out alternative scenarios, testify to us and tell us ‘ script a, cost 1 billion, script b, cost 500 million, script c, cost 200 million and we select 200 million because that is where the economy reaches it’. Tell us the scripts. General concerns and trade unions do not honor a minister of a government who criticised the previous ones for precisely the same reason, precisely because they acted in this way. So I demand seriousness, Minister, and tell us whether you have a plan and what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I shall begin with the last word of the colleague's representative of the Change Movement, the word 'true'. Here is a record of the position and placement of all colleagues. Four-and-a-half years, as a Member of the Staff Officer and honoured by the Chief of Staff, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for four and a half years to have the portfolio of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, there is no statement of mine which differs from what we are doing today. Not one. We have never become populists and irresponsible, and I have never personally become, what I see today in the face of Mr Kegeroglu, who for the fourth time comes and tries to do good and close the eye in social accusations. I would like to say for once that Greece has a very good insurance system today. Mr L.4670, the 2020 insurance reform - I say this in the most responsible way I can - came to stay. He closed unconstitutional loose ends with the past. We give the retrospectives of all pensioners, where there is an obligation. It has received compensation, it cultivates insurance consciousness, it becomes an electronic national body. We have been unified for the first time by all social security institutions. We've organized the system. We built the "ATLAS" system with which Greeks' pensions will be given in a second. We still have loose ends from the past, such as the outstanding pensions that we are dealing with - step by step and we will also give this a solution. And this law came to Parliament, Mr President - and I want the Greek people to hear it - who will not change, will remain - with this law they will also be retired for all the next generations - with two elements that never existed in the past. First, a proportionate study demonstrating the system's viability by 2070 and second, a study of pension adequacy. So we have a stable insurance system, which gives pensions, which is reciprocity, which creates a sense of justice and which has certain elements. I'll only tell you two numbers to understand what we're talking about. By taking the social budget account of e-DEKA for 2019, we have the following figures: The annual expenditure on the country's insurance system for 2019 is EUR 28.6 billion, i.e. 15.3% of GDP, we pay it for pension transfers, for pension payments. From this amount - notice, this is worth - only EUR 13.8 billion, that is 7.3% of GDP, it is contributions - we collect from the contributions to pay pensions - while the state, the taxpayer and pays EUR 14.8 billion. In other words, 7.9% of GDP is paid by the state budget to support the insurance system. This balance now comes in 2030 to gain its final form, as the basic pension, the national pension, the EUR 384, will only be reflected in the state budget, because today the state budget pays over basic pension of 2.4% of GDP, about EUR 4.5 billion. That's the truth. And it has the obligation of any Member or party to come and ask for increases in pensions, to say, where he will find them and how he will do so in a financially neutral way so as not to disturb the sustainability we have achieved in the insurance system, whose balance no one can hurt. No one has the right to jeopardise the Greek pensions of the next generations. In closing and proving once again the irresponsibility and populism of the question, listen to what the Change Movement wants: What did the Change Movement ask for in his question? Listen to the numbers. Restoration of the ESS. A very rapid calculation is EUR 1.2 billion. Note, Mr. Kegeroglu, to make your self-criticism and apologise to the world. Secondly, the thirteenth pension, EUR 2.3 billion and a third basic pension of EUR 500. What does a basic pension mean? If I subtract from the EUR 500 today's pension, EUR 384 - because there is a lower, but I take preservatives for this version - I have EUR 290 million monthly, EUR 3.8 billion annually...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u48	These are grocery stores.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u49	The whole of Mr Kegeroglu and the Change Movement: They ask for EUR 7.3 billion annually in the state budget for pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u50	These are grocery stores. The man's in trouble!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u51	Calculations are those.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u52	These are the definition of irresponsibility, populism and the views that have led the country to fiscal derailment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u53	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Mitsotakis did well and removed your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u56	Don't get confused, Mr. Kegeroglu. Expose once again with what you ask and what you do. So the next time you dare come with the same question, answer the EUR 7.3 billion that you propose, where you will find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u57	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u58	A little symphony, please, and responsibility. You know from the past what led to budgetary derailment in the country. Stop populism and irresponsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u59	Don't lie! Pleasant already! Is that how you count them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u60	We continue with the 20th first under the number 1035/14-9-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Escapes of nursery municipality of Peristeri, recently recruited through a programme for the unemployed, to be replaced by other even more economical unemployed". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am reading to you part of the letter of the Committee of Dismissed Workers at the school stations of the Municipality of Peristeri: "In mid-March a notice came out in the Municipality of Peristeri via ASEP. Based on our molecules, we won a position after so much trouble. During the recruitment process, the Municipal Authority promised us that as long as the ESDP is in place, our jobs are secured. They stressed the need for staff to cover the jobs of children's stations. Suddenly on August 6th and while we were on summer leave, we were told that we would not need any more. In cold blood we were informed that twenty people would be hired by OAED for free, while we are costing." Those were their words. "We have been informed by email about the non-renewal of the contract. The next day they had ordered that we should not be allowed to enter the kindergartens to which we are working. The fourteen workers are losing the molecules of unemployment, which we have collected and are not entitled to the Unemployment Fund. Also, since we were informed in August, it is well known that this month everything is going down and therefore it is extremely difficult to look for work. We are mothers, women in pregnancy, women with obligations." Minister, I'm the father of a 16-month-old child. A eighteen-month-old child, who enters a nursery station, needs a stability so that this experience is not traumatic. This stability means stability to the people who will take care of it. It's also pediatrically irresponsible. However, in fact, as far as the labour force is concerned, the fact is that you are making this competition, the poverty-sharing: how do we get from the Unemployment Fund for five months, we will give them EUR 720, we are kicking them out to get after five months people who will get EUR 540, this time without any cost to the municipality. It is also illegal, however, because these positions cover fixed needs. We have ESRB workers in the municipalities, such as cleanliness in the Municipality of Vyrona, who have been renewing their contracts for ten years. Minister, he is now lost because of the coronary and the lockdown. However, it is an official document of the European Court of Justice's decision - on 19-32020 - which says that any job meets standing needs, must be an indefinite time. It conquers and forbids governments to make repeated contracts with workers. It further considers that, although there is an interim interruption period, it is not a criterion that the position is not permanent. Criterion is that it meets permanent needs. He thinks that even if workers consent to it, it doesn't matter. The state's obligation doesn't change. And we're talking about contracts that you, by ministerial decision, have allowed them to be renewed because they serve standing needs. We invite you to make these contracts for indefinite duration, to stop this predicament of the unemployed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u63	To begin with, I would like to make the following comment: your question concerns the procedure whereby the legal person of the Municipality of Peristeri hires fixed-term staff to cover the fixed and long-term needs of its structures. In particular, you are referring in detail to the recruitment of eighteen workers under an IPO contract, i.e. private law of an indefinite duration by the Pre-school Education and Welfare Agency of the OPAP, which is a legal person governed by public law of the Municipality of Peristeri. It follows that, as a result of a reasoned opinion by the municipality concerned, the non-renewal of the contract for the workers concerned is a dismissal, which is, however, an expiry of a contract which, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the existing legislation, has been carried out after a reasoned opinion by the municipality concerned. I therefore inform you that I have read the relevant decisions of the board of directors of the body, as well as of the municipal council, which have been posted in the ‘DENGY’. I wonder why you, too, do not seek these answers and documents before submitting your question. All the documents are available to you, as is the legislative framework which allows for the non-renewal of the contract of the workers concerned. In addition, I have to tell you that I should not have known the specific issue you raise, as the recruitment process of personnel from the municipalities and their legal persons is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, to which you should also address your question. However, since you have asked the Ministry of Labour the question, and you are also accusing us of having the responsibility of allegedly distorting unemployment management policies, let me reply to you directly this time, that the priority of the Ministry of Labour is to protect the unemployed and to distribute them to stable and quality jobs well paid. That's our target. To achieve this objective, our Ministry is redesigning active employment policies, developing partnerships with employers, so that the jobs that will arise, are constantly available and respond to the characteristics and skills of our unemployed fellow citizens. Already in cooperation with OAED there are too many programs that you can find on the Internet on site of OAED organisations. They are programmes that give very strong incentives for private recruitment. At the same time, in regions with increased unemployment, targeted programmes are already being implemented for preparation and employment, for which you can also be informed. Also, as soon as I announced in the House yesterday, the new government's programme, the subsidy of 100 000 new jobs which is already the law of the State, starting on 1 October 2020. Therefore, our Ministry, with targeted initiatives and actions, is seeking to combat unemployment and maintain jobs. No distorted state policy on unemployment management and at the expense of the unemployed does not exist. These belong to the sphere of imagination and in no way correspond to the Greek reality. I am putting an upper end here and I will return to my dentistry, where I will answer your questions in detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u64	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I really hope that you will answer the questions in detail, because so far you have not done so. You're saying this is about the Interior Ministry. As you know, this is a reclaimed question. He was first filed with the Ministry of Interior, which declared lack of responsibility. So it's your business. The procedure you say is none of your business because it concerns the municipalities. And yet, you define the institutional framework and you are addressing the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 19 March 2020, to which you have not referred. And, indeed, I expect you to refer to dentistry. In fact, this decision says that the two-month, five-month contracts serving standing needs are illegal, such as the ones stated by the Municipality of Peristeri that they are covered by the nurses and are obvious. These should be indefinite time. You continue to meet the constant needs of the municipalities, the public with such contracts. That's illegal. That's what we ask you to change. It's completely and clearly your responsibility. You wondered if we haven't read the reason for these redundancies. It is this game that unfortunately was created by both SYRIZA's governments and yours. Competitiveness with the cheaper unemployed through the most subsidised programmes. They leave the contractor of the NRV of EUR 720 to get the free for the municipalities, the beneficiary of the OAED, at the cost of EUR 540. You recycle unemployment and poverty, Minister. And you do so in a way that there is no working right for people. These people, when they are fired or long-term unemployed, are fired after five months of employment without even being entitled to an Unemployment Fund. We therefore call on you to respect the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and to do the employment contracts for posts covering fixed time-limits. That's legal, and I think it's moral.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u67	I'll start with a correction. This is a verbal mistake I made in my introductory speech. I said I did. It's private law of a fixed time and not indefinite as I said. So it's time. Now I'm coming back to the core of your questions, because we need to clear things up. I want you to hear it, Mr Arsenis, to realize where we are, how we operate and how the decisions are taken in the Greek state. First we see the issue of supposed redundancies in the Municipality of Peristeri. Under Article 68 of Law 4415/16, care has been taken to ensure that workers under PMI work contracts who are involved in the programme "Family and Occupational Hazard Harmonization". It is a programme to which many other primary schools have joined. However, this provision stipulates - the provision itself! - not to renew staff contracts except under two conditions. Firstly, since there is a great and objective reason - that is to say, that this decision is specifically justified - and secondly, since the decision has been taken by the board of directors of the legal person and then approved by the municipal council. In this case, the Municipality of Peristeri took a decision not to renew the fourteen of the eighteen recruits. The four remained because they were considered by the premiers of nurseries to be absolutely essential and by the management board of the ESDP at 31-8-2020. This decision was adopted by the City Council on 11-9-2020, now that is. The reason for the non-renewal was the financial impossibility of the ESDP to cover payroll costs due to the significant reduction in children's attendance due to the pandemic of COVID -19. In particular, in March 2020, when the eighteen employees were recruited, payroll expenditure was about EUR 1 million with funding from the NSRF - the well-known voucher - about EUR 250,000. From March onwards, due to the suspension of operation and non-reduced turnout, it is expected that by the end of 2020 a negative revenue difference of around EUR 500,000 will be expected. Halfway through! Therefore, inability, the lack of economic resources constitutes an essential, important and objective reason justifying the above decision. With regard to the second part of your question concerning the permanentisation of your contractors, I am simply saying that the conversion of fixed-term employment contracts into an indefinite period is contrary to Article 103 of our Constitution and is therefore unconstitutional. What are you doing here? Eliminate the Constitution? This constitutional prohibition is explicitly repeated by the legislature and by Article 21 of Law 2190/1994, which explicitly prohibits the conversion of fixedterm private employment contracts into contracts for an indefinite period. It's forbidden, Mr. Arseny! This prohibition covers contracts concluded in the context of OAD employment programmes on the basis of a subsequent provision of 2016. It is Article 64 of Law 4430/2016. Therefore, there is a time-consuming commitment of the state, regardless of the governments, to shield transparency and dignity in the status of recruitment in the State. As you know, since its establishment, all the recruitment procedures of permanent staff in the public and public sectors have been under its authority and control. We're supportive of S.H.I.E.L.D. This does not, however, concern recruitment in the context of co-financed European programmes, as is the programme on the harmonization of family and working life, to which you refer. It is for that reason that the existing legislation provides for fixedterm employment contracts to be concluded and explicitly excludes their conversion into contracts of indefinite duration. It is expressly prohibited both by law and by the Constitution. So, do you come here today to ask us to convert these contracts indefinitely, that is to say, illegally, to move unconstitutionally? Are you asking us to legislate bypassing the APA and to appoint without objective criteria that the APA has established as a Greek state? So I urge you to reconsider your question and if you are thinking of asking questions of this kind again, read both the Constitution and the Greek legislation, as it governs the recruitment regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. Before we move on to the next timely question, I would like to make a statement to this House. On 18 September 2020, the Ministers for Shipping and Island Policy, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Civil and Labour and Social Affairs submitted a draft law: ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Commercial Shipping of 6 December 2001’. On 18 September 2020, the Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Civil Protection and Justice tabled a draft law: ‘Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel on Maritime Transport’. On 18 September 2020, the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economic and Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law ‘Building the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development and Water Management of the Republic of Albania for cooperation in the field of agriculture’. All three draft laws were referred to the relevant Standing Committee. Now we will discuss the ninth number 1000/31-8-2020 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Equal removal of rights to small-scale property and the need to extend for the normalisation of arbitrary structures". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, from what you have seen in the debate, we have ministers who do not restore injustices, such as the Minister for Labour who has previously refused the restoration of the injustice of the CSCE for micro-retired people. But here, we have something more pulled from the Ministry of the Environment. Removes income, puts his hand in the small owner's pocket and takes his income away. And I explain: While the small estates of seven hundred and fifty square squares, a thousand two hundred squares, four acres, under conditions when they are tempted by municipal, provincial and other public roads, they can, for housing and other activities to be built, come the Ministry of the Environment - according to his intentions so far, we will listen to the Minister - and he says: 'No, gentlemen, you will not, the small owners. Only the great owners will be able to do so." This results, firstly, in the islands, such as Crete and other areas where the fragmented and small lot dominate, to devaluate thousands of parcels, which today either have been bought either inherited or entered into the investment process. They will no longer be able to build, according to the data purchased by the people who bought them a few weeks or months ago or who took them from their parents. The second huge problem is that a new generation of arbitrary people will be created for this reason, because the enormous pressure on the needs that will exist and the enormous supply of small property, but which they will not be able to build, will cause a new wave of arbitrary people. And the third and most important thing is to do with the situation, which will be created, if this two-year situation is applied, which is said to reduce the rates, they will do two years, etc. They will be filled with shells outside of the plan, because people will hurry to get permission, to move on and, of course, they will come to tell them that they cannot, because they are already telling them that their rights are not there. So what we want from the Minister is to answer whether he and the political leadership intend to rethink this position, which has come here in the House in the first place in 2002 and left badly. He came back in 2010-2011 and took her back badly. It came back from the previous government and took it back, because it is being promoted by some or someone in particular, and when it comes to discussing it, we see that this is inconsistent either with the constitutional order for justice or equality or, of course, with the good habits. From now on you'll despise people's property. All entities, such as POMIDA, associations of municipalities and communities throughout the country, all municipalities, chambers of engineering. I think you also had an appointment with the Technical Chamber of Eastern Crete and a conversation. All these points of view, haven't all these complaints counted so far? I'm asking you. We're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u70	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. It is a good question, because it opens up the debate that will follow in Parliament during the draft law. That's a very useful question. Let us look at the real facts, so not fantasies. These so-called built-up rights that are deducted from the draft law are the rights to build on non-project land and not normally off-project land, which is already, according to case law, an exception to constitutionality debate, but to those that are by way of derogation. The exception is in fact the four acres and a derogation from the derogation are the smaller fields which since '62 began to build under various conditions. It is therefore a matter of derogations. Derogations when imported, imported for some time. That is what Mr Kegerolgos has always said in the case-law, and I shall refer to hundreds of decisions by the Council of State on this matter. I'll tell the House more in detail. This possibility, to build plots below four acres, is a global Greek originality at the moment. Even the generally non-planned construction, which we do not want, has been abolished in all European countries for years. We not only keep the project as a rule out of plan, but we also maintain derogations from the nature of any derogations that are temporary, and that is what the case law in the Council of State says. I would remind you that by a 2016 decision, the derogation to category seven hundred and fifty squares with two thousand squares has already been considered unconstitutional. Why did we keep an eye on the derogations? We had a reason. The reason for this is that the non-project construction is the most destructive element of Greek urban legislation along with the timeless legalisation of arbitrary law. I shall refer to two, three things very briefly. Firstly, with the non-structural structure and in particular with the derogations on the small fields, de facto residential concentrations are created outside the project without any infrastructure, which destroys both the environment and the landscape and operates competitively towards normal investments. Owners of these lands do not pay contributions in money, as are paid by those who build in the project, but build with factors and farms that are often more favourable to the plot than is the case within a project. In addition, non-planning construction - the European Union's literature and directives internationally mentions it - is one of the main factors in creating the phenomenon of climate change, because it leads to widespread non-planning areas, so extensive large movements with IX and thus greenhouse gas emissions, otherwise they would not exist. It is also destroying agricultural land - which, with climate change evolving and given the fact that a food deficit is already beginning to be created on a global scale - which is valuable. With COVID -19 it has not proved even more important for each country to have a relative self-sufficiency in agricultural products, and I am referring again to a directive from the European Union which is being prepared. So all these consequences of the outside construction seem to be ignored, we do not put them on the table, and we are only discussing the rights of small-scale farmers. What about everyone else's rights? As I said anyway, these are derogations which should have been abolished for years. That is what the case-law says several times. So it's not about rights. These are abused rights. They are very few anyway because in order to be able to build derogations you must have a face of forty-five meters on a national or provincial road and on a municipal road, according to legislation, but municipal roads do not exist. Illegal confirmation has of course been given by municipalities that there are also municipal roads, but municipal roads do not exist because there has so far been no specific procedure for their designation. So there's very little of these stadiums. I'll bring to the House certain numbers and sizes to see who really is affected. There are very few of them. A proportion of the building activity is affected, which is around 1.2%, in terms of economic volume and, in addition, those who should have had long been able to build with derogations are also affected. That's all about my prology and I'm going to go on with the denology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u73	From what the Minister told us, I understood that neither the comments already made in the consultation, nor, of course, the statements made by the operators, nor the screaming of the small owners, have been read. He presented them with something like illegal. He deliberately screwed up and created a blurred landscape that out of plan construction is the arbitrary construction. No relationship. Today, when a real estate is transferred, there's the process of asking the town for what kind of building you have, or how many squares you build. So they go and get the building certificate, go to the notary and make the contract with certain rights. What does the Minister say now? He says that this is not the case, that what you knew went through. Now the plot will give it to the other man who has money to buy yours and back to fill out the four acres. That's what the Minister says! Because for the environment it doesn't change anything. If he cannot build the one on the front with your own data, who has seven hundred square or a thousand two hundred, but when he buys the back and does it four or six or twenty acres on the same face, then he can build and build the same squares that the small property would build. He who is back cannot, of course, be incapacitated because he is not on the municipal road or on the provincial or prefecture and does not have such a right. So with the same environmental result, the property is transferred to other hands, to the having. This is the purpose of the bill, although not confessed. I wonder how you bring such a bill when you know the history, instead of correcting and regularising things. The New Democracy MPs are elected in areas where these small-scale owners exist, which you said a few to them, but I know that only in Crete are some fifty thousand. If you're less than fifty thousand, then I don't know who you are when you want only those who can buy big properties, unite and create your conditions. Minister, now that it is early, rethink the issue and where there are issues to be re-examined. On August 10th, I would say that I would understand whether he said that we want to correct this and for the next five years or decade the coefficients are maintained as they are today, in order to do their homework for those who bought with these rights and I do not want to remove them unconstitutionally, because this is an unconstitutional withdrawal of rights, and to give them a transitional period. The other thing you're talking about for two years, with reduced rates and that, though it's a mockery, Minister. So look beyond bibliography and what is the reality, because bring me whatever book you want and say how the property is structured in Crete or in the small islands and how it is micro-ownership, that is, if it captures the situation of the small and fragmented clergy, then I will say: "Yes, this scientist took into consideration and reality". If it is a theoretical scientific document, it will obviously have been taken into account as you quite rightly said what is happening in Europe, what is true in Canada. Can you tell me the average amount of property in Canada? Very well. Does it have anything to do with that of Crete? Oh, no. So, what do you want now? To transfer us things that don't apply? You said about arbitrary construction. That's right. This is a time-consuming problem. Indeed, they ask for an extension ending the month in reasonable time because of COVID -19 to go this process. That's right you said, but don't confuse this with the off-planning thing. You know very well that it's two different things. Justice. Minister, we also want your position. We have Lesvos, too. Half Lesbians with plots will not be able to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. First of all, I have not confused the arbitrary construction with the out-of-plan legal structure at all. I was referring to the off-project legal structure. All these catastrophic things I've told you are of legal outside construction. What I didn't say, 'cause I forgot, there's a symbiotic relationship between legal outside construction and arbitrary. 80% of legal permits coming out of the plan result in heavy excesses. The legal out-of-project construction is one of the arbitrary breeding vehicles. That's what the data say. It's not a theoretical book. They say it's Greek reality data. Secondly, you said about the fragmentation. I am not talking about Canada, I am talking about countries such as Italy, Spain, South France, which also have cuts. But who? Just like here, the farm lot. The rural lot, the rural land, is not to build, only exceptionally. It does not create rights of construction, as the case law says. You'll see her. There are also excellent constitutionalists in the Change Movement who will say it during the debate in the House. However, there is no acquis right in rural land to be built up. It is something that the state gives exceptional and exceptionally and legally not only can take it back, but must take it back after so many years because of the disasters created by the outside construction project. So things are not what you say. When I said that there are few, I meant that there are few, not those who have fields below four acres, but those who have legitimately built fields below four acres. You must have forty-five meters of face on a national or provincial road. How many are there? I'll get them for you, but they're very few. They're not fifty thousand in Crete, they're much less. I do not want to go too far because there is going to be a great debate in this House. But it is obvious that we are talking about another reality I am talking about. As for the part of your question that refers to arbitrary matters, I would like to tell you that this is also a wound that must begin to stop. We need to put a brake, an end to the continual extensions of the arbitrary declaration, because we will simply have a wave of arbitrary waves not because of the removal of out of plan. With the exceptions out of plan, we have around one million eight hundred thousand arbitrarily in Greece. The arbitrary took place with the off-project, not because of a lack of out-of-project, and they were done through the off-project. So arbitrary and off-projects have a symbiosis relationship. That's a matter. And secondly, we have said that arbitrary is out of plan, that they are created on land on which the licence has legally been issued and then overrun. 80% of licences out of plans on the small stadiums go too far. Also, what you say is that if two plots of plots are built the same, they do not build the same, they build less. If two small plots of seven hundred fifty or four hundred fifty to reach the four acres are much smaller, then the building volume and the general burden on the environmental footprint are much smaller. Finally, I'm going to close up with the arbitrary extensions. At one time, the continued extension of the extensions must be stopped. For many years, since 2011, there has been arbitrary legislation. They have had many years to submit their documents, but now there is the possibility, because I would remind you that what must be submitted by 30 September is not the complete set-up file for the arbitrary, it is the application and the paradox. All the rest needed to complete the dossier have eighteen more months to climb the system. So, by the end of September, the statement and the paradox can be made, provided that everyone wants it, and as long as they do not hope that someone else will find them retrospectively and maintain the present filthy situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u76	We enter the thirteenth quarter under number 1007/9-2020 in the second cycle of MP II Thessaloniki's Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Why was Parliament suffocated and bypassed in the adoption of the anti-environmental National Waste Management Plan of New Democracy". The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitris Economou, will reply to it as well. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to make a comment for ten seconds. It is unscientific and has never been linked to the unscientific construction of the unscientific building in Greece, because it is known that the lack of spatial planning and the inability of public services led to this great problem of arbitrary construction. And don't hide behind the responsibilities of previous governments. The bill is not intended to limit the off-site construction. The bill, if it comes to the House, prolongs the lack of planning, weakens public administration, creates great overthrow of small and medium-sized property against the interests of the citizens, but at the same time they are highly uneco-eco-eco-engineering, because it takes away the coastal space from spatial planning, serves great interests that are close to your Government and are deeply unscientific. The only solution is to go ahead with spatial planning, as needed, to organise and limit where rules are needed and not to play games with great interests, because this is the basis of the problem that has emerged. But let us come to the question right now that we have. I am particularly surprised, Mr President, that Mr Economou is here. Why? Mr. Economous for our question he has no competence, there is a competent Minister with other responsibility than that of Mr. Economou and Mr. Hatzidakis does not come. And the question is: Why do you come to answer our own question and, if I am not mistaken, to a next question of waste? You don't have the power to manage waste. I think he is Mr Tagaras, the State Secretary responsible or Mr Hatzidakis. You know this attitude by Mr Hatzidakis and the Government to send an unauthorised State Secretary to answer parliamentary control denies the possibility of having a debate on the substance, because for things we will ask, Mr Economou, you are not aware and you cannot answer it. And this is a lack of democratic attitude and depreciation of the House, the same as you did with national planning. Our question is this: why is New Democracy's allergy repeated in democratic procedures? Why didn't he come to the House to discuss the National Waste Planning? Why did you consult in August and go with fast track procedures in August to approve it by a cabinet act? Why have you reiterated the same thing you have done in the anti-environmental law, the one that the non-governmental organisations called environmental crime law, Law No.46852020, when you went with limited participation in Parliament, because of the pandemic, to pass so many anti-environmental regulations from the abolition of NATURA 2000 entities until the abolition of forest maps? So why do you repeat an act of impoverishment of the House when the previous national planning and more difficult conditions, with double elections in 2015, came to a Parliament committee twice with all environmental organisations, bodies, the Central Association of Municipalities, with Members' speeches and positions, and after one and a half months the Ministerial Council came to ratify it with the amendments resulting from a debate by the House? Why are you afraid of the House debate? Why are you afraid of dialogue? Why did you put in August to finish a fast track consultation so that no one could get your plans, which you had surpassed and contained in the national plan? For this reason, Mr President, I will present the position of environmental organizations not of SYRIZA, which says that it is 'the mistake of the Ministerial Council to approve the National Planning'. So the questions that come to you are: why do you commit the country to privatising waste management and to anti-environmental arrangements by underestimating the very will of the citizens who have sent here representatives to the House and to the Committee on Environmental Protection? Why have you reached this point in terms of what you have to hide? And I repeat the question - and I put it as a request, Mr President - why do you not choose and now come to Parliament, discuss national planning, call on the relevant bodies and the relevant bodies and the science and production and the environment? So why does this government once again prove that it has no respect for democratic processes and for Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u78	However, I would remind you that the individual powers of the State Secretarys under no circumstances, in accordance with the principles of parliamentaryism and the internal distribution of services, do not deny the Minister the right to delegate his powers to the State Secretarys. It is not restrictive by presidential decrees that the competences are assigned when there is a emblem. I'm telling you this about history and there's a practice like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u79	I too, for the record, say that you are right about the formality, but the devaluation of the substance of the parliamentary dialogue - because it does not have the powers - is something I cannot ignore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u80	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. It was extremely interesting to introduce the previous question referred to in the draft law. The fact is that the apologists of anarchist outside the construction plan and arbitrary construction have come together. It's pleasant because that's how the masks fall. I will not go any further, since I will see you in the House, and that is where we will all be pleased. We shall now proceed to that particular question. Indeed, the previous National Waste Management Plan had been promoted following meetings in Parliament and stakeholders hearings. Does that mean that what emerged was a text that was serious and effective? Let's see what this democratically-consulted ECHR was saying. It was intended that the burial should retreat until 2020 to 26%. It remained when the current government received 80%. He set a target for recycling 50%. What was the reality? It was 20%. Objective for separate collection of 40% of organic waste. What really happened? It was 5.7%. Pause of HSD. Instead, there were in Greece in 2019 still fifty two illegal landfills operating with all the consequences and the fines we pay. In other words, what you see as having been democratically debated was, in fact, a completely perforated text, which did not achieve any of its objectives - the objectives were for the festivals - and which did not even promote any of its objectives. What you did in practice was not only not to promote waste management in a more rational way, but you have also stopped all the procedures that were in place before the creation of waste infrastructure in the name of what was allegedly some of the infrastructure models that you would have brought, of which none. So this is the reality of your own consultative bill. Of course, since you did not intend to apply it, nor to promote its objectives, you would have no problem having been discussing for eight months for two years. For four and a half years you haven't done anything. We want something to happen. August, especially this year with COVID -19, was a month of work. Time was enough for consultation. The consultation was carried out and the ECHR passed completely legally and in accordance with the procedures laid down. I'll talk about the substance of the N.R.D. in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I think we are making sure that Mr Economou is tragic. The fact that he has no competence in this matter and that he does not know the matter has been proved by his first answer. He spoke, for example, of the CIDs that Greece has been free of charge, which is still in operation. You don't know, probably, at all. Let me inform you, then, that during the governance of SYRIZA with this national planning that came to Parliament, which was not afraid of dialogue, Greece managed and reduced 82% of the fines that the governments of New Democracy and PASOK had charged to the country. You don't know that, why would you guys know about landfills? Have you ever been involved? We will also tell you something else, which shows the vulnerability of perhaps the political context. Are the objectives for the festivals of the previous ECHR? Do you want to ask Mr Arsenis how, incidentally, the objectives of the previous ECHR are the objectives of the 2018 European Directives? You know that. So why are the targets for the festivities? That, in other words, the objectives that European directives are currently implementing for all of Europe were set out for the festivals? Unfortunately, the political reason you emit is for the festivals, Mr. Economou, and keep an eye on your words. It is not enough that you come as an unauthorized person, but you do not have the political morality of placing in the Chamber, which is a sacred room, and you do not have the level to infect it with that sparrowing speech you have. Now we're going to the point. The solid waste projects that are being implemented today, Mr President, throughout Greece, which are also being implemented on your island, implemented by the mayors who have not supported SYRIZA, the public processing and sorting projects at source, the circular economy strategy, which has received great acceptance from Europe - and we have been within the first countries of Europe that we have acquired with this national planning - are projects arising from the SYRIZA national planning. Do you want to ask the president of the CEDEFOP what work he is doing in his area? Do you want to ask the mayor of Alexandroupolis or the four units that are in Crete? They are all projects that have arisen with the national planning that the previous government has done, which has attempted to put order on this chaos literally left by the previous government. But I want to go to the question I asked you. Why were you afraid to come to the House? Why do you underestimate the debate that is taking place in the House on the environment? Why can't you stand criticism and dialogue and let you come as unauthorized here? You can answer us, because the non-governmental organisations say that the consultation was a pretext, because it was obviously within the Fifteenth General, that the views of the consultation were not taken, because you have passed it fast track by the Ministerial Council. In other words, they have not even been able to spend two days since the end of the consultation and you have passed it by the Ministerial Council. So you have in your old shoes written the world that even participated in the consultation. There is no prevention plan. Answer me. Is there a prevention plan in national planning? It is a question the NGOs raise. Secondly, I would like to raise a point of order. Why are you going to increase combustion when the European Union itself says that we should not be driving and criticising countries such as Denmark and Austria, used as an example by the Minister, who also does not know what the European Commission says about combustion? So the European Commission says that even the burning countries should cut down subsidies and price support and go through the highest form of the waste management hierarchy, which is the source sorting and recycling. So, second question. The first is prevention. The second reason is why you are strengthening the combustion. Third question. Why are you strengthening privatisation and thus the commitment of citizens and municipalities to high waste management tariffs for decades in projects belonging to individuals? In fact, Mr Hatzidakis now wants to bring resources from the Recovery Fund. They are resources needed to strengthen the state and society after the pandemic. And you want to give them to contractors to do combustion plants by modifying, in fact, all processing plants, with a deterioration of the technological background, so that Greece can be delayed and only make fuels, and also by changing the balances for the benefit of combustion? The third question, therefore, is privatization. Let's go to other questions. But I want you to reply, since you are competent and the President says that under the Rules of Procedure you can be here. Tell me, Mr. Economou. Where you're staying, do you pay less the waste management depending on the recycling you're doing? In the municipality where you live, does ‘I pay as long as I fly’ legislation apply, with incentives for recycling? I don't want you to tell me where your house is or where your municipality is. But I want you to tell us if you know if "I pay as much as I fly" is implemented and if you pay less because of the recycling your municipality does. Because it is legal for it to apply from 1 January. Also, I want you to tell me why the National Waste Plan took the separate organic sorting in 2022, while it was legislated in 2018. Why do you change that? These are questions that exist within national planning, which you have hidden from Parliament and you are not bringing them to any discussion at all. I repeat: Preventing, burning, privatising, recycling tariffs because there is no separate collection of biodegradables, because you have a loophole for the Ministry to be able to change regional designs on the back of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, why you have nowhere - this is the seventh question - to assess the cost, how much the citizen and the municipality will pay, and to assess the quantity and quality of waste, on which you have made this planning. Without scientific data, unscientific, non-recycling, anti-ecological, privatization against citizens, you secretly went through a design. That's why you did it, Mr. Economou. So the question is why you have not come to Parliament and when you will allow Greek and Greek MPs to discuss this abortion at the expense of the environment and the interests of public health, but at the same time also of our country's economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. You described the impact of the non-building plan the day before yesterday. So, with the same logic, it is anti-environmental and to promote waste management in the most modern way. You live in another world, you recycle it. You live with your illusions, but no one else follows you. I do not want to refer to the designations you have given. After all, we will have the opportunity in Parliament later to exchange designations if necessary. I repeat for those who don't understand the first one that for the festivals it was, not the target, the number, but the fact that you set a target and took no measures to promote and achieve it. This is for the fairs. Don't do what you don't understand. Even better it would be the target of 100%. The older he is the better. It's not about setting targets in the air. The point is to set targets that can be promoted. You have set targets that correspond indeed to international data, but you have done nothing to promote them. Obviously, this is the criticism we make of you. It's not about the number. Philosophy wants it? [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] For CIDs, I still say that you set a set-aside target and there were fifty three illegal landfills in 2019. From there on, what you're saying... Evidently, some HRD closed down, but your target was on the air. So the procedure you followed had no significant effect on the content of the then waste management plan. It was a process that simply avoided talking about the substance. He tried to create impressions. You used that as a government very often. You have done nothing on the substance. What do we do? Firstly, we are setting targets that are feasible. Secondly, we do not only promote combustion, as you say. The measures taken by the National Waste Management Plan concern all stages of the management process. It starts with prevention, it has prevention measures, it has recycled measures, it has measures to process recycled products and it has measures for the finished product of the whole process, because a product has. As far as this product is concerned, which you say that we will manage with burning, it is not combustion. This is a process which, according to the European Union itself, is an EIA process and is the energy utilization of the final by-product that you cannot do anything else. This use of energy is made at specific plants that have been able - since the time of SYRIZA - and replaces more harmful fuels when it enters the furnaces. And from this point of view, we have a net environmental benefit. It also goes to specific plants, which are specially designed for processing, for the energy management of the final fuel. In other words, all the energy that has been incorporated into these final by-products again is being won. There's been a recovery. That's what this is about. Everything else is great words, magnificence, and nothing to do with reality. As for why, as you say, we didn't bring it to the House, etc., I said that you didn't care. And eight years to talk, since you didn't intend to apply it, it was yours. Talking is easy. Doing something in practice is hard. We took advantage of the time we had to build a serious waste management plan. The consultation took place. Whoever's interested has had a month to participate. Many others also participated in the normal consultation, but many other bodies too. It had already taken precedence for public consultation, consultation with economic operators, BSE, the Chemistry, the CEDEFOP, the Committee of the Regions, the CEDEFOP. With all these people we have been discussing this project for months, which is a serious and effective one. With regard to the last hint, the funny hint, that we give them to contractors, but the PPPs necessarily have contractors. And you used PPPs, even to some extent, when you couldn't avoid it. That's nothing bad. Depends on how this PPP will be compatible and move forward. This is up to the LGBT and the local bodies. We don't say you're necessarily going with PPP. We are making this recommendation and from there on, everyone can choose this process, through which he thinks he will be faster, more efficient and more efficient. We don't oblige anyone. You imply, because we also want to do PPP - because with PPPs it has been shown that public works are done faster, cheaper and more efficiently - that this means that we deliver to contractors, as if some demons with horns and pointy tail. What can I tell you? It is known that you have allergy to the private sector, but today you have exceeded your previous records. But you have the opportunity to go further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. The fifteenth, with number 987/28-8-2020, will now be discussed in the second cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The disossom by the HYTP Genders daily affects the quality of life and health in western Athens". The Congressman is Mr Arsenis from Mera25. You have the floor for two minutes, Mr Arsenis, to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is indeed a matter that is not your responsibility, but we have brought it to the House so many times that I think we will train you at the end. First of all, on the issue of the abolition of derogations. As you know, I am always in favour of limiting it, outside the construction plan. It is a policy that scientific bodies and environmental movements have been claiming since I can remember. The measures proposed are concrete, because the bill includes many things that go completely in the opposite direction. So, for the derogations, I find that they are moving in the right direction, but they are cowardly measures that do not change the big picture and, personally, I will support any progress, but without losing our objective, which is really to stop the alteration of the landscape and which has a great impact on the environment and tourism. Now we're going to a question that's then, somehow, about our issue. It's all about waste. For a long summer time it was inviolable to be in Petroupolis and other regions - such as Kamateros - of western Athens. There was an intense dysosmia during the evening hours. I have made complaints to both environmental inspectors and the Greek Police Environmental Crime Department. We discovered some shocking things, that we have in the EMAS, the Recycling and Composting Engineering Factory in the Gender, an authorisation from 1997, which actually defines a unit of measurement that does not exist in practice. There is no mandatory committee recommendation on the methodology to be applied. Even these odors have huge limits with which we measure them, at the same time as in all western Athens and West Attica we have little measurement of the pollutants. In West Athens, in Peristeri specifically, we have a meter that, instead of measuring carbon dioxide, benzene, monoxide, lead, nitrogen and sulphur oxide, only counts nitrogen dioxide and microparticles PM10. It is a clear violation of the framework directive. That is why we really need to change this framework and the authorisation of the EMAS and of the entire race, with many loose ends. Since we want to see where this austerity is, we want to ask you what the quantity of organic waste entering EMAK has been in the past and what, on the basis of GDP, legislation applies, on air quality in the West Attica, and why you are applying a card to European legislation and do not address the enormous health issues, as is documented by studies, in West Athens and West Attica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u90	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you must have had some information you requested. I hope you've been here. The Minister has signed them since the end of August. Haven't you been here yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u92	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u93	You don't? However, they have been signed since the end of August. For many, what I will now say is also based on what has already been sent, but I do not know why they have been delayed. They've been signed since August 31st. On the substance of the matter now. First of all, the EMAS. Since 1997, there has been. It has received various extensions since then - legally - environmental conditions and recently on 5 August a new decision approving environmental conditions for Coreper was adopted which replaced the previous ones and is fully harmonised with the requirements of the European Commission's Implementing Decision 2018/1147. I do not know if you have this latest update of environmental conditions in mind. It is very recent and in line with these requirements. Now, you're asking for some sizes. There's the evidence we've sent you, but I'll repeat it. Prior to the modification of GDP, the EMRP’s capacity was three hundred and sixty-five thousand tonnes of urban solids and twenty-five thousand tonnes per year of biowave. Now with the new GNI it has been reduced to thirty-five thousand tonnes and the limit has been increased to 100 000 tons - per year, always - to the level of biowaves of the selected ones. As far as the quantities that it actually accepts - because this is what is envisaged - the EMAS, according to the figures of the ECHR in May - July 2020, accepted three thousand two hundred and thirty-three tons. In the first half of 2020, thirty-eight thousand tons reached the EMAS. The previous year, in 2019, was the total influx around the two hundred thousand tonnes of municipal waste and fifty-seven thousand tonnes of biowaste. In 2018 they were two hundred forty-seven thousand tonnes of municipal waste and fifty-nine thousand tonnes of biowaste. These are some sizes, but you'll see a lot more detailed information about what we've deposited. On the following points - and I expect you to listen to your point of view - I shall refer to my second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u94	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, the 2020 amendment involves more pollutants measured in the EMAS. But it is terrible to think that we have an environmental authorisation for 1997 that you amended in 2020 - it is shocking - which includes other methodologies, etc. We expect to see the results of the pollutants. It was very impressive. If I understand correctly, environmental inspectors when going to the project did not meet some pollutants in the morning - these measurements were not negative - and yet you could not stand in Petroupoli and elsewhere. And it was at night hours, so the most obvious thing was that something was going on with the EMAS. That's why my complaint to environmental inspectors and the DEA was to investigate the nights of the problem and not the mornings where there was no dysosmia. On the question of measurements, however, you did not actually mention it. What about the pollutant meter? How is it possible in Peristeri, in a region of one and a half million citizens, that we have a measuring station which counts two pollutants from those laid down by the directive and, respectively, from the West Attica? And it is impressive that there is, if you like, a kind of racism in the placement of these stations as in other areas of Attica there are at least a little more stations, if you see the northern Athens sector, if you see the center of Athens. In one and a half million, however, in western Athens there is a station that counts two pollutants. These are fundamental issues which we do not need to get to the point that people cannot stand on their balcony to change them. You have an obligation under European directives to change and I invite you to do so. As I finally call on you to do what is outstanding, the overall environmental impact study of the ESA, the overall project, which is expanding, prolonging, blocking, without having ever considered the cumulative effects, even though there has been an obligation since 2014. Infringement, i.e. illegally, is the case. So I would like you to put these in order before discussing the next time, the ECHR, and what the class you put in the next stage is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u96	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Look, this question concerns the factory. It does not generally concern the measurement of pollutants. As you know, the limits set for pollutants are not specific units, they relate to cumulative pollutants in an area. These pollutants have been mitigated for years by specific procedures that are fully in line with European practices and directives. There are three stations in Elefsina, Peristeri and Liosia. These stations since 2015, on SYRIZA, have been upgraded and supplemented with new analysts of air pollution measurements, counting two suspended particles and benzene. Since 2018, the RIS, again on SYRIZA, started working with Diocritos to sample for heavy metals and benzo(a)pyrene. All this is compatible with what European legislation requires. Of all these measurements, no excesses have arisen so far with the exception of limit values for ozone, but ozone, not only in this region, but in general in Attica, and in southern Europe, for reasons that have more to do with climate parameters than with excessive emissions of pollutants. Only to them have occasionally been found some excesses. What I am saying is also available on the website of the Ministry of the Environment and on the website of the European Environment Agency, as provided for in European legislation, and to which we are sending them. It is therefore not accurate that Union legislation is not applicable. Union air quality legislation in West Athens and anywhere else is applicable. From there on, that things can be corrected there is no doubt. There are issues which, regardless of Union legislation and checks, are currently at an unsatisfactory level. I think if I listened well, you talked about noise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u98	I referred to odors, not noise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u99	Oh, I thought you said about the noise, too, okay. I'm sure there's room for improvement. Already the Ministry in summer brought the National Air Pollution Control Programme, which will be finalised and approved in the near future and additional measures and procedures will be provided for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u100	We continue with Mr. Kritona Arseni's next question. It is the ninth top tenth question of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "National Waste Management Plan: Raging for national contractors and huge costs for the environment and households". Please keep the time because there are still twenty questions. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, it is a follow-up to the debate and with Mr. Famelou's question. It is truly impressive that you do not bring the National Waste Management Plan to the House. It is incomprehensible not only for the nature of the document and for the polluted parliamentary system so far, but also for what your proposal includes and the billions of costs that you decide to load on the backs of households. It's a corresponding size class of the armament program. Now, indeed, your environmental organisations are blaming very hard things for a pretext for consultation. Only one table in the Annex lists economic data at seven hundred and twenty-nine pages. These figures are that 3.7 billion euros are planned to be spent. 2020-2030 will be given the construction of waste treatment plants, these inefficient, as we have seen, on the basis of the existing data, but also on the basis of the ESRB data. 80% of investment relates to the lower level of hierarchy and fines will come, Minister, and that is why the European Union simply takes us in the order of fines. First he's taking us for the fatest. Fines will come for that too. We have the warning at the moment and rejections of public works such as the Peloponnese PPP. The European Union is already asking us to go to the highest stage, namely to go to recycling, to relocation, and then to see what we are doing. You make these factories that will make very little recycling. At the unit of TERNA in Epirus right now we have 20% recovery of plastic recyclables and 37% total recyclables. All the rest based on the NSAs are sent to the combustion. Send to burning even the compost, the CLO, that'll take off these factories. You change the specifications and the terms and measurements you are elasticizing, in order to send a maximum quantity to the combustion, in order to lock these projects which are not financed, the European Union refuses to finance them, as the SYRIZA PPP for the Peloponnese rejected you. He refuses these projects that you propose. And you bring enormous costs to the citizens, with guaranteed amounts that will go for thirty and fifty years in the end, because that's what you're going to do with the bank lending you're going to make, lock us in a dystopian future. We invite you to cancel it before they begin to drop European rain fines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u102	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. I fear that it is not true that only so-called combustion, which is not exactly combustion, is promoted by the ECHR. The ECHR includes measures for all stages of the waste management process. First of all, it has objectives that are extremely important. In order to achieve these objectives alone, this shows that we are taking action in all areas of the objective, because we will be the ones to apologize if this happens tomorrow. As SYRIZA had to apologize for what he had set as goals and did nothing. If we do the same, we will be in the same situation. We forecast an increase in recycling to 55% from 2025 and 60% in 2030, a reduction in burial to 10% in 2030, a cessation of CIDs by the end of 2022 in terms of targets. How are they going to be? First of all, there are measures within the ECHR to prevent, minimise, reduce waste. Secondly, recycling is greatly upgraded by sorting at source through the ECHR. These are measures which will increase both the volume of original waste or reduce the percentage of those left without recycling. From there on, modern processing plants are being created throughout the territory, where the proportion of waste collected will be directed to recover the recyclable materials - again recycling - and at the end of the day, because something remains - is always being promoted not for combustion, as you say - it creates impressions that something we burn for no reason is not a combustion - but an energy utilization. In other words, this is an energy use of waste. And this is a process which is also provided for by European legislation and by the European Union and is an EIA process. So he's doing all this stuff with the NSA. It does not just focus on energy utilization. However, we must take into account from there on when comparing the Greek case with other countries, where we are at the moment. When we are so low in recycling, so high in the unregulated mood, in the CIDs, we are obviously at a completely different starting point from that in which other European countries are located, which can give weight to other things. We must take action and immediately. We are taking steps directly at all stages of the process. That's what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u104	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, that's not possible. You find ourselves in the deadlock to benefit certain business interests. We are investing in contracted waste management at huge cost to citizens. You will need to lock these guaranteed quantities for thirty and forty years - perhaps more - to get these expensive units out, the super-accounted as we have seen in the case of the Peloponnese PPP. You're investing in the past in a way that's outdated. You are talking about burning and you are hiding that the countries that burn waste - which is badly burned, because the European Commission says so - have first made full recycling. You don't recycle, but you minimize recycling. You have chosen the method with the minimum recycling. We'll have fines from that. And you're sending it all to combustion to justify the huge cost of PPPs. You're telling us you're permitted to burn. Tell us, Minister, does the European Union finance combustion, since you say it is such an environmental measure? Say it in public at last. You tell us where we are in relation to other countries. I won't mention Scandinavian. Hungary, Slovakia and Poland - closest to us, before the memoranda we were more advanced than that - invest in the higher hierarchy, namely where real recycling is, by 76%, 94% and 66% respectively. The new ECHR - to see how much in the past it turns us - invests 80% in the depth of the tier, where we should not invest. It is the reversal of logic and there is one reason: there are business profits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start at the last point. They do invest in the earlier stages of hierarchy in other countries, because they already have infrastructure at the last stage. We don't have one. We only have four waste treatment plants right now. In 2020, the country has only four waste treatment plants. The countries you say have much more such units. So now they are turning the burden on recycling processes, because what you say is the percentages of money spent at the various waste management stages. We are very far behind, we do not have what these countries have, so we must invest first in the final stage. If you don't have the final stage, to do something, everything else is funny. But we're not just investing in them. As I said before and as you will see if you read the ECHR, there are specific measures to prevent, there are concrete measures to manage and sort out the source through separate flows. In addition, there are approved measures for alternative management and upgrading of recycling infrastructures such as CIDs, for example. From there on, as I said again, in the whole system something must also be done with the final by-product, which - I repeat - is a by-product, which is regarded by the European Union as a source of energy. There's something to be done. From there on, when it comes to private capital, I would like to say that we are living in a capitalist country. It is not just infrastructure for waste that is made by private capital. Everything is done with private funds. This does not rule out at all, if the local authorities, the competent authorities, want to use other procedures beyond the PPPs. It is not mandatory to use PPPs, but the experience so far shows that PPPs are generally - usually, not always, of course, there are bad cases - more effective and cheaper. You say it's expensive. More expensive than anything is the unregulated burial. This is the dominant system in the country today. This is more expensive in all respects, not only in close financial terms, but also in terms of secondary impacts on the environment and other fields. So, from the unregulated burial anything is cheaper. That's the first. Secondly, we have not invested so many years in these procedures, so we are necessarily investing in them now. But we're not just investing in them. We invest in all stages of the hierarchy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u108	We move to the 20th Question No 1017/7-9-2020 on a second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: 'Strengthening the unregulated placement of wind parks'. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all at the closure of the previous question, I would like to say that we have discussed them at the Peloponnese plant. We have such an over-burden task - these are the PPPs you are saying - which the European Commission has condemned as illegal aid to the private company that the PPP does. We're at this point, so let's not talk in advance. Now on the issue of winds: we had a decision again in the summer - astonishing that winds were licensed as ten MW, where they rank in category (b), where the standard environmental commitments that are essentially at the level of a responsible statement are needed. It's impressive what you're excluded. But you also exclude the accompanying projects - here, Minister, we have ports, important roads, helicoways, projects which are incomprehensible to exclude environmental licensing - at a time when we have an unreasonable situation in the way the wind farms are installed in Greece, where without any principles being observed, are placed in 'NATURA', at high heights, in atrocities, in in infinitely small islands, which is not done in other countries. It's a pretext that we can't do it. We have a situation where each investor chooses the mountain range he wants and closes one after the other. Incomprehensible things! No spatial planning and no protection of natural resources! You seem to be taking a step further. Promote the salamation of works, where they will apparently be cut into tens of MW to escape licensing, to be honest. On the basis of both the service documents and the officials of your Ministry, there is a protest that environmental impact studies, whether rational or environmentally relevant for the impact, are preliminary studies, written in procedural terms, with shocking gaps. But they're approved. We urge you to withdraw this ministerial decision, to put order in the unreserved placement of the winds. And surely you cannot continue to look at the consequences at all and allow further salinification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Let us see where we are on the RES. At the moment, our commitment to the European Union is for gross final energy from RES in 2030 to 32%. With the ESRB we have increased this target to 35% of RES. How are we going to achieve this? For the importance of RES and for the importance of climate change and its consequences, I do not think there is any reason to speak. It is self-evident, it has been said several times and I am bypassing it as well. Without RES, however, we cannot deal with climate change. That's obvious. To achieve the 2030 target, we need new RES projects of about nine thousand MW. Of these MWs, about 90% will be one of the two main ways today, wind and photovoltaic, and the rest of the 10% will be of the other methods and technologies, which, of course in time, are changing and these things can be modified in the future. However, the picture we have at the moment is that these are realistically the comparative figures. What are we doing? What you mentioned about environmental licensing was simple. We have simplified a process which in Greece is much more time-consuming than in other European countries. How did we simplify her? extending the scope of the environmental commitments. The model environmental commitments are not something that the current government has invented, nor something that Greece has devised. It's not like the outside construction plan and the derogations where we have the Gina record there. It is something that is systematically applied in all European countries. The sizes we have set for the RDPs, for wind stations, since we are talking about them, are similar to what is envisaged in the rest of the countries. It is therefore neither a matter of abolishing environmental authorisations nor something that is unprecedented. This is certainly something that is necessary, because without the RES, without wind power stations and photovoltaics we cannot achieve the goals, which are not theoretical, but have specific consequences for the environment and the life of all of us. We cannot disconnect one thing from the other. If we want to reduce the phenomenon of climate change with the catastrophic consequences that we see every day, we will have to promote the RES and also quickly. That's the recital of the whole story. We are not doing something that is unprecedented or anti-environmental or something that does not follow the good practices of other countries. I shall refer to the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u112	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I am referring to your status as a master of spatial planning. Can't you see a small difference with those countries you're talking about? You say that you have copyed the licensing scheme of other countries, which have plans to protect the landscape and banned uses of land, they have land planning that we do not have, they have town planning that we do not have in practice, with very detailed land uses. They also have NATURA management plans, a ban on such projects within NATURA. When they have all that we don't have, they go and do a simpler licensing process. We have no framework, we are abolishing the only framework that existed, which was environmental licensing. That's what we do in practice. You say about the objectives that need to be achieved. So we need to simplify the procedures. But the University of Ioannina with its research team comes and tells us that in order to achieve the objectives you have named, no wind turbine needs to be used in NATURA areas. Where do you take this in mind, why do I see you agree? Where do you take that in mind? By simplifying procedures? Is this not a simplification for NATURA areas? In an unattractive state of placement of winds, with a total absence of planning, where it has been distorted since the beginning the process by RAE of pre-authorising the placements, in an arbitrary way and at the moment we have the consequences that you further encourage with what you are doing with the licenses, we invite you to put a class as a professor of spatial planning. Put in a framework of proper placement, because what you are doing right now is discredit every renewable energy project in societies. And you have a responsibility for this, a responsibility towards the effort on climate change. It is the lack of planning that leads to this, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u114	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u115	There is no shortage of spatial planning. In one place there are two parallel procedures: spatial and environmental. The MSF is a form of environmental authorisation process. In some cases the MFF applies, in some cases GDP. We moved the line between the two cases, not to degrees peculiar, but to an extent equivalent to the rest of Europe. The RDP is an environmental licensing, it's nothing else. He's obviously looking at the environmental parameters. But let's leave the RDF. Let's go to spatial planning. There is neither anarchy nor a lack of spatial planning. There has been a specific spatial framework for the RES since 2009. This spatial framework liberated investment in wind and photovoltaics in the sense that until then there has been a problem with the Council of State, which required spatial planning. With its repeated decisions, the Council of State - because many appeals have been made for the planning of the RES - has been found to be lawful, constitutional, that there is no problem and that this can be applied and it meets the requirements that exist, with an exception for birds. You know it, too, I know it. I am referring to the protection areas of birds. That's where improvements have been made. So there is a framework, which looks at the cumulative consequences, because it provides for a capacity to be brought to a municipality level, a municipal unit. There's this. You cannot add an AIA area without an upper limit, because there is the maximum capacity required since 2008. It could be said that this is wrong, that it should be smaller or larger or otherwise. That would be an acceptable criticism, but not that there is an anarchy. There are too many rules, distances, a number of things, bans, banning areas and capacity at municipal level. The capacity bears a cap which takes into account the cumulative impact of the introduction of new RES stations. So this is not an anarchy. From that point on, I think it is well known, but I will say it again, because it may not be known to everyone. Already these days are updated, i.e. the evaluation and modification of the existing EIA spatial planning. The scholars are already working before the official start to save time. We're collecting evidence. There have been contacts with the relevant agencies. With this new edifice of RES, there will obviously be improvements. There are obviously problems in the old spatial planning. I don't deny it. That doesn't mean it's for flying. Not at all. The problems that exist either since birth, or because, over this decade, twelve years have elapsed, technologies have changed and new data are available, they will be evaluated. For example, a new given given is the average height of wind turbines and diameter. 2008 was the eighty-five meters, now we have two hundred-foot wind turbines. Obviously this is a new given. It is, of course, taken into account in the methodology for assessing the impact of the landscape and the carrying capacity, but it is not taken into account that a two-tier wind turbine generator may mean some specific things in a small landscape. These will be evaluated and dealt with through the new EIA spatial planning. As for what you said about the NATURA regions, we have protected objects in the NATURA regions. The protected objects in each habitat, whether priority or non-priority, are different species. Not all protected objects are sensitive to the placement of a wind station. The wind station can affect certain protected objects. It doesn't affect everything, though. So there is no reason to make a horizontal ban on the placement of wind stations within the NATURA areas, which is 32% of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u116	The escort plays?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you both, because you have both spent your time quite a lot of time. Other colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u118	Accompanying projects are also subject to rules and procedures. It doesn't mean you mess wherever you want. Therefore, where necessary, through environmental licensing or also through prohibitions already in place in the field of the RES and through specific procedures and in the protection areas of birds, there are additional provisions in place to ensure that they do not have negative effects on the environment and protected objects. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u119	Be well. However, this is a subject that we will discuss and discuss again the work that Mr Arsenis says. We move along with the first under number 1023/10-9-2020 on the second question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: 'The protection of human life and dignity'. The question of what has happened in a television station is the question of what has happened. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you are well aware, 15 days ago in the context of the Big Brother show, a player adopted wordings which, in essence, cultivate the culture of rape. And not just that. Overall, in the context of this show, we have seen the reproduction of logical stereotypes, sexist, rational at the expense of women's sex. Was it an accidental event or was it the tip of the iceberg in the context of a series of similar television products, which reproduce such stereotypes? And think, because we are at a time when many residents are sitting - and rightly so - in their homes, the hours of viewing have increased. We may have to sit further. So, what is the state doing right now toward such a culture that is addicted to all the previous ones? Are we content with the fact that the first announcement from the Broadcasting Council said that it was not his responsibility to intervene if there were no complaints? Who's making this interpretation? What should the state do? Not you, Minister. You will obviously not be interfering and dismantling emissions. However, should we not, on your own initiative and in the context of the House, take such initiatives so that there can be a new holistic approach to this phenomenon which is not individual? Can we just watch as Pontius Pilates? Does this culture bother us, which is addicted to all these stereotypes? On the other hand, you know that there are laws, recently adopted: the Istanbul Convention, which speaks of gender equality. What's that? A general wish? Is it not a commitment to the competent state to interfere with such exhortations, behaviours? That is what I wanted to put to you, Minister, and I expect to see the degree of your sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u121	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that I was initially surprised at the content of the timely question tabled by Mr Skourletis and we are discussing today. And I'll explain why. There was, at the beginning of this month, this event, described by Mr Skourletis, in relation to the television station where the broadcast ‘Big Brother’ was shown. When I received knowledge of this from newspapers released online on Sunday, September 6, I contacted the National Broadcasting Council and the TV station immediately. My immediate actions have been notified through my Twitter post. Because in your timely question, Mr. Skourletis, you did as if you did not see this, I repeat it, although now I understand that it was weaker to quote: "On the occasion of reports on the dialogue on TV reality with the contents of vulgar sexism that even refers to a criminal act, I have asked for the immediate investigation by the PSE. I also contacted the TV station, and I think it is self-evident that he reacted immediately." And at the PSE, then, the competent independent authority and at the television station, Mr. Skourleti. We are therefore not talking about a discretionary power of a television station and self-regulation. I also believe that we all know what the role and responsibility of the state is within the framework of the Constitution, which in paragraph 2 of Article 15 states, inter alia, that radio and television are directly controlled by the state. Control and enforcement of administrative sanctions fall within the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council which is an independent authority, as laid down by law. The Council of State has also decided that, on the one hand, the State identified as legislative and executive power and, on the other hand, the National Broadcasting Council as independent administrative authority must take all necessary institutional measures, legislative, organisational, administrative and practical, including the enforcement and enforcement of the penalties provided for, so that, in the course of the operation of broadcasting stations, specific objectives of public interest are served, such as ensuring the quality of the programmes imposed on the social mission of radio and television and the cultural development of the country, as well as respect for human value and the protection of childhood and youth. Moreover, the TTE has decided by a plenary decision on 1901/2014 that the State should ensure full respect for the constitutional principles and objectives mentioned above, abstaining from interference with the content of the emissions. For the case you're asking, according to number one. 3925/17-9-2020 document by the National Broadcasting Council has known that a file has already been formed and that the site operator has been invited to a hearing before the plenary tomorrow, Tuesday 22 September. So where does the government's reaction to the matter come from? What else should it have been? So I am ready to hear, Mr Skourletis, what further would you have done on this matter? With regard to your second question, which was much more interesting, as we look towards the future, as regards the measures which the Government intends to take to protect human rights in the context of television broadcasting and the audiovisual media service, I would like to know in this House that the draft law is to be incorporated into the Greek legal system of Directive 2018/1808 on audiovisual media services. I reserve the second word to say two, three words on the main aspects of this directive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u124	Mr Minister, although you said that in any case you do not adopt the logic and practice of self-regulation, I think that all your intervention has confirmed that. Because, in the name of the fact that the National Broadcasting Council is an independent authority, it does not mean that you who own this portfolio and have the specific responsibilities must simply raise a phone and say that that is where your responsibility and presence are being exhausted. First of all, you did not answer me whether, in your opinion, no one is above criticism, obviously the Broadcasting Council, which emerges through the House, you have contributed to this composition, as a New Democracy - which, in its first statements, stated, is not his role to intervene on its own initiative, but on the basis of a written complaint. If ever possible! You rightly referred to the Constitution and the spirit of the constitution which speaks precisely of the control to be carried out in the media. Obviously the Television Council has the power to prevent situations. To make recommendations. So there's something wrong here. In any case, I must tell you that your reaction is indeed judged to be lukewarm, mercifully lukewarm. And I would like to ask you whether, in the end, the next time you give money - as you did with the well-known list that took your name, on the occasion of the pandemic - will you give them to a station that produces such a television by-product? Is it a criterion for who gets money and under what procedures does what ultimately serve young people, the citizens of this country? It's public money, the Greek taxpayers. Is everything allowed? Public frequencies take place. You know that very well. They have obligations. Or is the law of profit finally above all, in this case, above values, above all, the State's necessary intervention to create a different culture? That's what this is about. Of course, respect for the separation of powers, of course respect for the independent authorities, but also the state, the government, the social institutions, have a duty to shape a different climate and ultimately to reflect this in a different television scene through its productions. These are the issues, Mr Ministers, which we expect you to tell us about. And you committed yourself on 2 April in the relevant committee of Parliament that you will not do what you are doing again with the 20 million in relation to the way and the criteria you have given directly to television. So I ask you what you have done in this direction to bring rules, principles, to the necessary support on the part of the media and if, in the end, the television product of this type is a criterion to strengthen these instruments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the National Broadcasting Council is moving forward and has called for Tuesday to be heard by this body, as I said in my prototype. It is therefore not a question of whether it should be dealt with before or after a specific complaint. It all happened at the same time. You put on a broader subject, and that is why I asked you if you would suggest anything different that the state could do beyond what is envisaged either in Article 15(2) of the Constitution or in the responsibilities of the National Broadcasting Council. With regard to the subject of the directive, it is indeed a very useful tool to strengthen our institutional arsenal in relation to such practices that undermine the quality of the programme and create such situations, such as those with sexist comments that have even been made in a criminal act. I would like to say that in this case with the draft law incorporating Directive 1808/2018, the first is to ensure better protection for minors from harmful content on both television and video services on demand, such as Netflix. European rules for the audiovisual sector are extended to video exchange platforms such as YouTube and social media, and the relevant provisions will also apply to videos produced by users and posted on platforms such as Facebook, when the provision of audiovisual content is a key function of the service. More stringent rules are also laid down to combat hate rhetoric and public provocation in the conduct of terrorist acts, while the promotion of European works on the lists on demand of audiovisual media services with at least 30% European content. Finally, the role of the National Broadcasting Council in Greece and other countries is strengthened, reflecting best practices. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u127	Thank you both. The sixth will be discussed under number 1012/7-9-2020 in the context of the second question of the Pieri MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Elisabeth (Betty) Scooter to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Actual problem, probably harmful amosomia in areas of the IC. Caterine’. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Nikolaos Tagaras. Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u128	Mr Secretary-General, as a Member and as a citizen I would like to put forward very much of a disgrace, I would say that in Greece, in a pandemic crisis which clearly has environmental causes, in the sense that it is intensified by environmental degradation, we are forced to talk about self-evident, that is to say, the protection of the environment, the necessary controls against polluting or contaminating plants. Finally, it is shameful that all of us have not become aware that, without the environment, there can be no growth, no economy, no quality of life. I come to this particular problem. When thirty years ago, the authorities were building an effective anti-military project, namely the regional trench, on the north side of Katerini, they would never have imagined that this trench would be a waste water basin. I use words very consciously and know each other. Within the regional trench of various units, of different freight and productive activity, they throw uncontrolled animal manures, incenses, blood, and anything else imagining human minds. The bad news is that this regional moat is beyond the fact that it is near houses - entire districts border with it - it ejects into the river Pelika, which also leaks the city of Katerini. He looks next to a cafe, from houses, from neighborhoods. Pelkas is poured into the sea of Katerini, Katrinoskala and from there on all the coasts of Pieria Prefecture. I have photographic material to testify. This photography is also available in related files. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] We want to ask you: What checks have been carried out so far to detect the sources of pollution, not just pollution. What do you intend to do? Have the people been found? What are you going to do in the future about the compliance of our cause, the deterioration of our lives and the local economy, so that there are no similar phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. Good evening, too. Good week. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. By the way, Mr Tagaras, I wish you courageously for your new duties. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before entering the debate, I would like to point out that the Ministry of the Environment and Energy has an effective role to play in the management and protection of the environment and water resources. In its role it cooperates with the relevant departments of the regions, municipalities and decentralised administrations. This question was tabled on the occasion of reports by citizens, on dysosmia in areas of the Katerini town complex, which, as is reasonable, raise concerns among citizens, as well as on possible contamination of the regional treasury and the Peleka river. With regard to these issues, we have asked for information from the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace and the Region of Central Macedonia, in the context of their responsibilities: The authority to carry out checks on the river and any facilities and activities carried out in the area around the topic you mentioned has the Environment and Water Economy Department of the Directorate-General for Development and Environment of the Regional Unit of Pierre. Competent staircases of the above service have conducted eleven self-confidences since 2013 in the region of the regional moat and the Pelka river after complaints by citizens. Three decisions were subsequently adopted to impose a fine, two of which concerned a given undertaking, with an establishment near the area above. In each autopsy the competent step investigated the possible drainage of waste water either within the scope of the activity or in the adjacent streams leading to the river. It also received samples of liquid waste from the activity concerned and sent it for inspection in a certified laboratory. In autopsies carried out at the premises of that company in March and June 2020, pollution of the stream bed was confirmed. For the company concerned, two fines were issued by Vice-President Pierre, while the results of both autopsy and laboratory analyses were sent to the public prosecutor to check that they were likely to be related to other complaints made in earlier periods. In addition, in autopsies carried out since 2014, the reports underlined that there were objective difficulties in accessing the entire length of the stream due to dense vegetation that did not allow for detailed and immediate control of possible pollution since July 2018, when the authority to determine the events reached the region. The Regional Unit of Pierea launched the procedures for delegation to an external contractor of all cleaning operations from vegetation, waste, bass and stream sewage, which ends up in the river Pelka and part of the regional moat. The open international competition, which took place on 9 January 2020, and the region estimates that within the next two months there will be a selection of a contractor. The above may be technically heard, but they indicate that the services of the region of Central Macedonia have been following this for a long time, conduct controls and when they see infringements they impose penalties. In addition, the procedures for cleaning the stream also go hand in hand to facilitate checks to determine further possible pollution. In addition, the Northern Greece Inspectors' Corps, which is subject to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, has been working with the regional authorities and has received oral complaints lately for intense dysosmia and uncontrolled disposal of untreated liquid waste. You mentioned before and I have listened very carefully to your points. Therefore, given the competence of self-government, the Northern Greece inspectors will deal with the same of your complaints, as I have very carefully heard, for further checks and use of all the information, including those that you have just said, and because the cleansing of the stream is now going to allow the samples to be more substantial, so the results of the investigation more specifically will come back on the subject. I'm going to go on in my dentistry because I'm over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u132	We are pleased to hear that the environmental inspectors themselves will be seized, as this is the demand, if you wish, of all citizens, that the new municipal authority of the city, which has submitted a file both to the local prosecutor and, of course, because the actions are timed, the agencies are understood, or for other reasons, the same file was filed with accurate and numerous data on environmental inspectors. Minister, we really must run and act immediately. The problem is a time-consuming one, as you said right since 2013. There is, let me say, a secret, an in-depth investigation of all the elements required, and that is due to many and various reasons. The first of these is that I really and on the occasion of the question I would like to raise it to you, the services responsible and the Pierre Regional Unit, and I imagine the whole of Greece are under-represented. They may not carry out any regular and extraordinary checks. This sub-secretory has the effect of not carrying out inter-service checks. You know, good control must be carried out by various agencies, not only by the environmental section, but also by the rural policy section of the regional unit, by the health department, by the technical service. Because all these services - but your competence are the environmental sections - they are subordinated cannot do their work properly. Another issue and point that I would like to raise in relation to controls is when a unit requests an extension and specific environmental conditions are adopted to extend it. Is it followed immediately after on-the-spot and in-the-spot check as to whether this plant has made greater biological cleansing, greater wastewater storage, a waste water storage site? Did he do all this on the basis of his license for an extension? Another issue that I think needs legislation is this: we believe that it may be time for the cross-party consensus to possibly establish an autonomous environmental 'policy', which will be equipped with all the necessary state-of-the-art technological means, for example, drones, thermal cameras, cameras, so that in living space and time there can be the imprinting of environmental crimes and not all of us looking for muzour and no one has it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Mr Tagaras has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u134	I agree with you, first of all, that anyone who is licensed should and should check whether those which are manufactured are in line with what they have been licensed either for building-mechanical installations on the one hand or for respecting environmental conditions with regard to the specifications that they have to comply with. There is, it's true, a problem of staffing. It is an issue that concerns us to see how we can fill this gap, so that the interventions are immediate and, if necessary, temporary, so that they can control everything that is evolving, as I said during the operation, during the construction phase, but also in respect of environmental conditions. What I wanted to say, complementing what you mentioned, respecting and your sensitivity - and I have to say that it is a sensitivity to all of us in this Chamber - is that whatever is lacking and whatever is needed is to complement either institutional - legislatively the requirement to protect the environment, but also the proper and legitimate functioning of all the facilities and businesses, you must be sure that whatever is done and whatever has been observed and there is the best possible way to complete it. As I said before, it is the responsibility of all of us and the services of the Ministry of the Environment at central level, but also of all the co-operating and supervised regionally, whether it concerns decentralised administrations, regions or municipalities with a specific role and with an overall responsibility coordinated between us, to solve problems and outstandingities that have occurred over time. With these remarks, I would like to thank you for what you mentioned and notified us today. And as I said, we will move what is needed to control this issue and what needs to be done in every direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We go to the tenth under number 985/27-8-2020 in the second-round question of H' Vice-Chairman of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The Discontinuation of Television in Megalopolis'. Mrs. Sacorafa, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, stopping district heating is a direct consequence of the unjustified government choice of violent liberation without integrated planning. In Megalopoli there are facilities and infrastructure worth some 20m euros for the cogeneration and supply of thermal energy with a capacity of 20MW at unit III of Megalopolis power station, which currently serves about one thousand seventy households. In fact, for the upgrading and completion of the distribution network, a special decision of the Ministry of Development and Investment on the second phase of the expansion of the district heating network with a budget of approximately EUR 9,5 million has been adopted in December 2019 to cover the entire city of Megalopolis. The cogeneration of electricity - high-efficiency heating, the well-known CHEMICAL, is mature technology included in the list of best available techniques in the European Union. However, PPC's administration completely refuses to connect Megalopolis' district's district's district heating to PPC's respective production unit V. This unit has been operating since 2015 and can be classified as a unit of STHYA, as is done in the district heating systems of western Macedonia. This interface is an optimal functional and economic solution to both PPC and consumers. In fact, telecommunications using renewable energy sources or combined with cogeneration facilities are priority projects in the new programme period 2021-2027, in the new ESDP. The Megalopolis City Council with a unanimous decision (No.170/15-7-2020) rejected the memorandum of understanding and strategic cooperation with a private company for the construction of a natural gas distribution network in the city. It therefore calls for a new study on the heating of the city and proposes that - and I stress, Minister - the above connection and construction of a STHYA plant. Mr Minister, as far as we know, there is nowhere in Europe to be an example of depreciating an entire infrastructure network and district heating facilities. That is why we ask you: on the basis of what criteria at last and with what technical and economic data the construction of a natural gas network in Megalopolis is being used with a complete depreciation of the district heating facility? Why is the design of the expansion of the Megalopolis district's district's district heating network canceled? In the end, do you intend to review the interconnection of district heating with the new gas plant? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. The Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, will answer. Mr. Tagara, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. On Wednesday, 9 September, the government committee was presented and then at a press conference the detailed plan for the fair development of the lignite regions of our country, namely western Macedonia and Megalopolis. The plan condenses the vision of the next day of lignite regions with capital mobilisation of more than EUR 5 billion from public European and private sources to support the transition to a new production model. The draft of a fair transition will be put into public consultation and will be finalised by the end of the year and submitted to the European Commission. Therefore, the debate on the heating needs of Megalopolis and how it will be covered cannot be cut off from this wider debate on liberation, as it cannot be cut out from the debate on the promotion of sustainable development and achievement by 2050 of climate neutrality as provided for in the European Green Agreement. As regards the violent degrease, as you say, in the National Energy and Climate Plan announced and submitted to the European Commission in December 2019, a thorough analysis of the current situation in the energy sector was carried out using the most modern scientific models and alternative scenarios examined. The analysis clearly shows that the environmental cost of the continued exploitation of fossil fuels, such as lignite, for electricity generation is disproportionately high compared to expected energy and economic benefits. Based on the analyses and alternative scenarios of the National Energy and Climate Plan, the European Union's energy and economic data and climate targets have been chosen as the best option for withdrawal of all PPC's lignite plants by 2023, except for Ptolemais V plant operating until 2028. In particular, for Megalopolis, unit III is to be shut down in 2022 when also district heating. In addition, unit IV is expected to close in 2023. Given the closure in 2022 of the plant, which had been running since 2007, the district heating network, the thermal needs of Megalopolis is a key priority in the context of the region's transition to the post-lining era. This should be done taking into account economic and environmental criteria, both within the framework of the ESRB and the National Long-term Energy Plan. The choice to develop a network of middle and low pressure gas throughout the city of Megalopolis to meet thermal needs was made by the local society itself. Throughout the process of planning the transition, the Ministry of Environment and Energy is in close cooperation with the Municipality of Megalopolis and with the Peloponnese Region. Indeed, since in your question you mentioned the decision of the City Council of 15 July, I would refer to the press release of 18 August of the municipality, which clearly shows that the municipal authority has chosen as a solution the development of the natural gas network in Megalopolis and has actively and practically supported this option. This option ensures three necessary conditions: In this respect, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Secondly, to replace existing natural gas-free heating systems for households with funding again from the NSRF for the period 2014-2020. Third, the supply of natural gas should be made at prices comparable to the supply price of thermal energy as currently in force with district heating. This ensures that the current users of district heating, which accounts for about 50% of the total households of Megalopolis, are not, nor are they, the new consumers. Furthermore, the development of the natural gas network is ensured by the continuous flow of thermal energy in relation to the district heating that will provide households with benefits from gas supply throughout the year and not only in the winter months. Of course, this solution that has been chosen is the most cost-effective for PPC, for reasons that will be more detailed later on in my second language. Assuming that the thermal needs of Megalopolis are met by household connections to the natural gas network is not a question of moderation, since meeting the thermal needs of Megalopolis is a choice of the municipality of Megalopolis itself. This option will be implemented without any additional burden for citizens and projects will be financed by the NSRP, of course, in conditions of absolute transparency, as is imposed by the regulatory and Community procedures. In view of the time constraints and I apologise, Mr President, I shall return to my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u139	You're welcome. Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers, but I really do think you have not answered any of what I asked you. First of all, you have made a great deal of mention - and you are doing well, of course, because it must be heard - in the government's programme for deprivation. I asked you other things. I asked you two basic things. Why does PPC not accept this process of getting into the existing infrastructures the issue of gas heating? That's what matters. You didn't answer that. You referred to the municipal council, which, of course, calls for exactly the same thing. I asked you one more question: why do you despise infrastructure, which were actually paid for by the stallion of the Greek people? Since we have also gone to philosophy on lignite, I too will be allowed, Mr President, to say a few words. Greece has really supported lignite and its electricity production and development, but has never proceeded to the necessary technological upgrading to effectively manage residues to reduce pollutants. So today we are living in the era of liberation, as the Minister said and the so-called green development, as most people here say. So let's see some data, Minister. Only on 30 May 2020, Germany launched a new steam plant in Rhineland-Westphalia with a dynamic of a thousand million MW and a planned operation by 2038, because the limit on carbon production is then laid down for them in the German design and on the basis of the European Union's directives. At the same time we are at the other end, we close all the steam plants. This is not the first time that the Greek governments have despised and canceled productive processes that are crucial for the country. And I will only remind you of tobacco, beet and coastal fishing. The crime is that these moves are done without any productive planning. There is complete indifference even on key issues, such as the work rehabilitation of those who lose their jobs, indifference and indifference about the effects on local communities, thus being affected by brutally entire regions of the country. The regulator seems to give absolute priority to photovoltaic, wind turbines, hydroelectric or even natural gas units and it does very well. However, it is well known that for the equilibrium and uninterrupted operation of the whole system it is necessary to operate the lignite base units. Here PPC's V gas plant in Megalopolis is the first production unit in recent months on the basis of the monthly electricity trade bulletin. The interconnection of the plant with the existing district heating and its designation as NTHYA is the best functional and economic solution in the interests of all, ensuring the supply of thermal energy to Megalopolis at low cost, at the same time ensuring PPC’s interests vis-à-vis its competitors. Your choice is incomprehensible and will have historical consequences, Minister. In fact, what technical and economic study has resulted in the construction of a new natural gas network in Megalopolis, at the same time as depreciating - that is what I asked you before - the district heating plant? I would therefore remind you that, respectively, in western Macedonia, it has been chosen to maintain the function of television heaters. It will be crucial, Minister, for you to explain to us, of course, if possible, that you inform us and provide us with the particulars. Finally, with what logic do you choose to waste Greek people's money to build a new gas network in Megalopolis, I mean beyond the expectations of private company 'EDIL'? And most importantly, you're going to study the city's heating, and how do you deal with the connection of district heating to PPC's V plant and the construction of a STHYA unit, as requested by the Megalopolis municipal council, will I repeat, Minister? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u142	I will supplement it because my reply to my colleague was not incomplete. As far as PPC is concerned, and the reasons why she considers that the solution to the gas network is more advantageous, she informed us by documenting the following. The connection of district heating to unit V would require connectivity and the conversion of steam turbine. There should first be consultation with the manufacturer to investigate the possibility of carrying out these projects and, if the answer were positive, it would take three years to implement them without taking account of the time of authorisation. The existing unit III equipment cannot be moved to Unit V because, on the one hand, it is technologically outdated and, on the other, incompatible with the vapour turbine characteristics of the new unit. The total cost of the connecting and conversion projects, estimated at EUR 10 million, would be borne by the municipality and would lead to an additional cost of EUR 60 to 70 per MWh for the current level of consumption. If the cost of thermal energy provided by unit V is taken into account, it is estimated at EUR 25 per MWh, the total additional costs would amount to approximately EUR 85 per MWh to which the network and operating charges currently in existence for district heating consumers should be added. This creates the significant extra burden on the municipality as well as on households. As part of the memorandum of cooperation between PPC, DESFA and the Municipality of Megalopolis, PPC undertook to meet transitional needs with the installation of a LPG boiler or natural gas in the area of the district of district heating in Megalopolis. The transitional solution will cost around EUR 50 per megawatt, including the cost of using the distribution network. As a result, the solution for connecting district heating to unit V is more expensive and less profitable and from the transitional solution of the boiler with LPG or natural gas less than the solution for the development of the natural gas network. The figures therefore exist and clearly show that it is much more economical for Megalopolis to go through with gas than to make the necessary adjustments to Unit V to connect it to the district heating system. This ensures that the Megalopolis households will not be further imposed, which was an essential prerequisite for this solution. Whether the projects will be implemented by private individuals or by the TENs, which will also be privatised in the next year, since the infrastructure project will be privatised and the TEN should not even be a question of discussion since it is done in terms that are favourable to the municipality and the citizens. In conclusion, I would like to stress that in the whole process of planning and then implementing degreasing local society is a protagonist and co-formulator of developments and not just an observer. In Megalopolis, the process of liberation and transition is monitored by a local committee involving the district director of Peloponnese, the mayor of Megalopolis, the Development Company "ARCADIA S.A.", the University of Peloponnese and other bodies. Under the guidance of the local committee, the local plan for a fair development transition has been drawn up for the region, which will be subject to the integrated draft of a fair development transition, thus forming the detailed roadmap for the transition to the post-lining era. Consultation with local society is continuous so that the final plan incorporates its choices and priorities in the best and most productive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with our fourth question under number 1027/14-9-2020 of the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "An urgent change of licensing procedure for recyclable material storage facilities". Mr Arseni, good evening, and good week. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, may I also congratulate you on your new duties. First time we've been talking to Parliament with this new role of yours. According to a recent WTO - OTA communication, on the occasion of the fire in a plastic store in Transformation, we have in the last five years sixty-four corresponding fires. Of these are twenty-eight in C.D.S. and many more in warehouses. A large list is mentioned and it shows that there is actually an environmental crime in these areas in the way they are licensed, in the way they are supervised. It demonstrates the crime of non-recycling in Greece, for which your Government is responsible, how much more the new ECHR. The procedure for these sites is typical. It is part of a responsible statement from the standard environmental commitments, where the start of operation is notified. However, the materials stored have a risk when they are burned, which should normally be included in the SEVESO Directive. That is why I would like to ask you this. Since on the day of the accident - we are talking about the fire in Transformation - the General Secretariat for Civil Protection has issued a communication recommending that citizens in the wider area should shut down all windows and doors and stay inside the house and send a warning message to 112, referring to the general guidelines for self-protection in the event of an industrial accident, is this SEVESO installation unit and the corresponding other units? Is this a specific incident of industrial accident under the directive? Have you informed the European Commission that you are due? I would remind you that the SEVESO Directive should be informed of any accident involving removal or restriction of persons for more than two hours. I also conclude, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance - according to the on-the-spot checks at the appropriate scale, what is the pollution at the point of the accident caused by the discharge of fire-fighting and foam water for fire control? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Mr. Tagara, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, it has been in my early days since the takeover of this event and in Kefalonia I have been informed by the relevant departments. It is true that the problems of fires in plastic storage and processing sites, as you rightly said, in recent years have increased, and this, at least, creates an additional reflection. Because the consequences are economic, social and ecological. As far as the exact causes of the fire are concerned, we are waiting for the findings of the Fire Service, because it is still being checked and until the results come out, I have nothing to say at the moment. At the outset, however, I should like to mention that the issue of the operation of the urban waste storage and treatment plants needs a review to be carried out in compliance with all safety and environmental protection standards. This is indeed done through the National Waste Management Plan, the ECHR, adopted on 31 August by the Ministerial Council. In other words, functional and management upgrading of recyclable material sorting centres in order to be able to meet the country's increased recycling needs. Going now to the issues concerning the Municipality of Transformation and the incident you described, it has been subject to the standard environmental commitments for the project to store solid non-hazardous and recyclable waste and temporary storage of waste electrical and electronic equipment. The storage facilities for separate waste water streams intended for recycling and derived from solid urban waste after sorting at the source, such as paper, glass, plastic, aluminium, and recovery facilities from non-hazardous mixed waste through mechanical or manual sorting, fall either in the environmental A2 category or in category B. Categorisation in one or the other category shall be made on the basis of the quantities of waste reached in the installation. The responsibility of environmental licensing for category A2 lies with decentralised administrations, while subjecting to standard environmental commitments to the relevant environmental services in the region concerned. In this case the unit has been subject to standard environmental commitments from the Region of Attica. On the basis of the Joint Ministerial Decision adopted in 2016, CY 2016 172058/11-2-2016, setting out the rules, measures and conditions for dealing with major-accident hazards in installations or plants due to the presence of dangerous substances, that establishment does not fall under the provisions of SEVESO 3 Directive and is therefore not within its scope. In addition, in accordance with Article 3 of the same Joint Ministerial Decision, a major accident is defined as an incident, such as a large leak, fire or explosion, resulting from uncontrolled developments in the operation of an installation falling within the scope of the CRL on the basis of size and causing serious risks directly and long-term risks to human health and the environment, within or outside the installation, and related to one or more hazardous substances. The fire in an installation that does not fall within the scope of the relevant CRL is therefore not a major accident, in accordance with the applicable framework. On the other hand, the operation of the installations is required to be equipped with a fire protection certificate from the relevant fire department, which controls compliance with the measures and fire protection instruments. I would like to add that the standard environmental commitments for category B projects by the Environmental Infrastructure Group apply the Standard Environmental Block D1.1 on the installation of all the fire protection measures required, as well as the avoidance of the transmission of fire to adjacent areas and buildings. This is the process with the existing institutional framework and the provision on fire protection provides for that. Experience does not indicate that the current framework is inadequate, but since there is strict and complete implementation. To say this simply, neither the type nor the size of this activity, nor the institutional framework, nor the point at which it is found, can lead someone to think of specific rules and, indeed, of the SEVESO Directive. Clearly, such a fire cannot be described as a major accident, as defined in the SEVESO Directive, but also anywhere in the world. One more thing to understand all of us in knowledge. If we want to achieve this as a country - and I think that is what we all want - we must move on to the era of the cyclical economy if we want to reduce the waste that is being bred. Recycling is a key component. Both in our cities and throughout Europe and everywhere there are temporary storage facilities and some processing as sorting centres. It's the green spots, the transhipment stations inside the residential web. We can no longer be effective and actually promote recycling. It is enough, of course, - I repeat for the second time - that the control mechanisms work properly. If I'm not mistaken, dear fellow Member, and you're a champion of the green economy and your term of office in the House. I know. I think it is our duty to help all of us and to contribute to any measure that may restrict and remove the concerns, but also the risks that exist. I'm stopping here because of time. But I'll come back. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Arsenis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would also like to thank the Minister who has actually answered the question and the questions. I do, of course, disagree with the answer, Mr Minister, for this reason. The SEVESO Directive in example 4 in point 2E points out that Greece and each Member State have an obligation to report to the European Commission for each accident leading to the removal of more than two hours. This accident falls under this category, as we had on the day of the accident the General Secretariat for Civil Protection issued a notice recommending citizens in the wider area to close their homes, close the windows, and send the well-known warning message 112. So the non-declaration of the accident to the European Commission on the basis of the SEVESO Directive is illegal and can expose Greece to fines, in addition to the non-protection of the environment and public health. As to whether these situations are harmless, it is obviously wrong to class them. They're obviously not harmless, because the fire makes them dangerous. And we actually have sixty-four fires in four-five years. So it's a frequent phenomenon, and as we know, another fire followed by the Metamorphosis. And when these fires turn them into major industrial accidents, it means obviously the categorisation of the light activity that can be licensed by a responsible statement is wrong, problematic and dangerous to public health. That is why I call on you to make a commitment to change, as I urge you to check closely on the consequences of this major accident, both in the local environment and in the area of Attica and in the areas where the pollutants arrived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr Arseni. Mr. Undersecretary has three minutes for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u150	I thank my colleague. I would like to say that immediately after the fire, the environmental inspectors of southern Greece, including the Director-General, went to the area after the invitation of course and control by the Fire Service, but were not allowed to approach the site - and the yard, much more the building facilities - because there was a serious risk, due to the dangers and collapse of parts of the roof, i.e. the installations. Because we had such cases too. There were ceilings that collapsed and there is still a risk in this building. It has not yet been allowed, because the reasons for the risk have not been removed, so that we can have an accurate picture. From a distance, from the fence, that is, an exterior, there is an initial picture of what activity and materials existed, whether pallets, scrabs, or laminated plastic fabrics in stacks, plastic tubes and pallet tanks. When the conditions allow it - and I will tell you immediately something that has evolved now that I have come here and you will understand what I mean - and the hazards of approaching the building and the space are lifted, the Environment Inspectors of South Greece will immediately go and the Environmental Rehabilitation Coordination Office will also be able to carry out autopsy and do what is right with regard to the problems that have been observed and to record exactly what is happening. I would like to say that, with the audits and the results after the autopsy, the Regional Committee for the Risk of Attica will also be informed. These are the data that are formed to date. I would like to say to you that after an autopsy carried out by the relevant North Region town planning, I have already sent it - today I received it before I came here, to reply to you - on what measures must be taken immediately to remove the risk and enable auditors and inspectors to be able to have a better picture of the questions you have put to me. It is true - and I would like to stress - that the standard environmental commitments are the process of activity and size, but it is just as binding and specific as this decision to approve the GDP environmental conditions. I would also like to say that with regard to the planning commitment made by the government a few days ago, the authorisation, the joint ministerial decision was published last week, which abolishes the old system of classification of industrial activities at nuisance levels and replaces it with the environmental classification based on the relevant modern European directives on environmental protection. I should also like to say that all the activities covered by the SEVESO Directive automatically fall under a environmental approval decision. I have mentioned environmental commitments here and said that immediately when we have the results of controls and environmental damage recovery issues, and for any other move it needs either to the region in which it is controlled or in another direction, it will take place immediately. And to tell you something else that's important. On the occasion of controls and any other move concerning such facilities, because you have rightly said from the outset that much has happened in these things in recent years and, without wishing to go further and deeper, I will say that we are already completing by means of a programme agreement with an accredited institution, in order to automatically have the incident and the possibility of measuring all kinds of gases, toxic, radioactive and on the ground, and wherever else, in order to be able to direct the population in any way that is best needed. That's an update. I say to you that, on the occasion of the last incident, we have also initiated this procedure, exhausting all possibilities and complementing the relevant agency and environmental inspectors who, as you know, have neither bodies for everything nor for laboratories, so that they can have a complete imprint of the results of such an event. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u151	We will continue with the discussion of the fourth question under number 1028/14-9-2020 of the second-cycle question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject "Annulled the new National Waste Management Plan (ESDP) to deal with the additional fires in Recyclable Material Selection Centres (CIDA) and recyclable material storage centres". Mr. Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we obviously agree and I am pleased with your statement and the recognition that environmental inspectors are extremely understaffed, with little means. So because you're in a position to change that, I invite you to change it. I urge you to strengthen so that the recruitments correspond to the establishment plan for this service and not at the moment that we are perhaps in 1/3 of the establishment plan, with failure to implement the substance of the necessary work. You mentioned - and I continue because the issue is relevant to the initiatives that you will take to identify directly the pollutants and the risk to the population. However, when we have sixty-four fires causing a lasting practical accident of a heavy industrial type of SEVESO type, we cannot continue to classify these companies as a simple licensing process with a responsible statement. But the question is why they burn. Knowledge is now common in our society that since China has stopped importing plastics and since the price of oil has fallen so much that the raw material for the new plastic is very cheap, we actually have huge quantities of plastics to accumulate in the CDIs. And while PET packaging to some extent is recycled, Tetra Pak and much more already recycled at the moment, Greece has no way to make it available anywhere. They just continue to accumulate until sometime, of course, they burn. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask for a little tolerance to finish the question. You brought the new ECHR and you see nothing on this matter but you send these recyclable materials to the combustion. The new ECHR should provide for the financing of a specific recycling plant for these recyclable materials. And that is why we would like you to tell us what is going on with these packages in Greece right now - for Tetra Pak and the other packages that are not recycled - what quantity goes through the CIDs every year and why the NSA does not plan to create a specific infrastructure for recycling these materials, but you are sending them for combustion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mr Nikolaos Tagaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not entering, because we're coming from the question immediately before. Dear colleague, EEW under the legislative framework is responsible for implementing the policy on alternative waste stream management, such as packaging waste, electrical and electronic equipment, excavation waste, construction and demolition. The basic principle underlying the alternative management is that of the extended producer’s responsibility, according to which the producer or importer of a product, promoted on the domestic market, also has the obligation to manage the waste to be produced after the use of that product. This is why the so-called TENs, legal persons of a non-profit character, which have as their sole purpose the organisation and operation of alternative management systems, are set up and operated. EOAN approves. Entities shall contribute to public and private enterprises involved in the alternative waste management chain. Alternative management systems operators for packaging waste shall contribute with recyclable material sorting centres for municipal packaging waste and monitor the latter for their performance. With regard to packaging waste Tetra Pak, according to the accounting data of the ESRB, the Hellenic Company for Rating and Recycling, in 2019 was recovered from the co-operating recyclable material sorting centres and promoted for recycling about two and a half thousand tonnes of Tetra Pak packaging waste. Of these, 38% were driven to an internal paper industry, while 62% were exported to external processing plants. The new National Waste Management Plan in full compliance with the provisions of Article 6 of the European Union Directive 2018/852 as a general objective is to increase the recycling of packaging waste by at least 65% to 2025 and 70% to 2030 with specific objectives for individual materials. In order to achieve the objectives of the ECHR, specific measures for packaging waste are identified starting from the prevention of the creation of such waste at the production stage and to provide incentives through the extended producer responsibility programmes to minimise the environmental impact. In addition, in the ECHR, the bodies responsible for implementing these measures are identified. It is noted that the ECHR does not refer to packaging waste Tetra Pak, but this is because its management is part of the overall context for packaging waste. Therefore, it is not accurate that the National Waste Management Plan does not specialise in the measures to enhance recycling in general and packaging recycling in particular. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u155	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, your analysis runs counter to our data. Our information from the industry is that in recent years - since China has closed its borders to all types of plastics and has set specifications - much of what the countries of Europe, and especially Greece, have stopped exporting to the warehouses. If you want this is the common knowledge that justifies the fires in these areas, whether they are legal or illegal. In any case, the new ECHR sends too many of the recyclable materials, which will not be recovered with the waste sorting mechanical units. It sends out the compost that will be created from the waste residues for combustion. This demonstrates how we lock ourselves in a future, in a low-recycling dystopia that may not burn factories, but will burn these materials into combustion plants. We may not burn the warehouses, but we will still burn them. This problem is not solved by the ECHR. And obviously the companies through the EOAN have an obligation to pay the recycling fee. But there should be the body that can manage all recyclables to collect this fee. And that's very important. We need a factory that can make recycling of all recyclable materials that, for various reasons - such as China - currently stay in Greece without recycling and, of course, they are already being driven to combustion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr Arseni. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. On the issue of combustion, I would like to say that the National Waste Management Plan and the National Waste Prevention Programme, which is being prepared and completed at the end of the year, are promoting the waste hierarchy and management. In other words, the priority is the prevention and sorting at source, recycling, recovery of materials, use of energy and as the last option is the disposal. The energy use adopted as one of the national plan measures concerns residues from waste treatment plants and from recyclable material sorting centres. I would also like to say that the higher stages and treatment of waste and residue have been prioritised, what is finally going to burn, what is going there, is everything that cannot be recycled, recovered or reused. This practice is followed in all European states. And I would like to point out here that the countries of northern Europe such as Sweden and Denmark have this move. In Denmark, there is an energy-use plant in Copenhagen, which is a model and has been awarded as a park and as an architect. If I am not mistaken, I think you too have expressed a positive opinion on the way in which it handles such issues and problems. And I would stress that the Ministry of the Environment does not deal with waste abstractions. There is an overall approach concerning both environmental protection and development in the context of the promotion of the circular economy. Overall for the period 2020-2030 the ECHR sets ambitious targets, which sometimes go beyond the European Union's directives, in order to through strategic actions and individual initiatives to cover as much distance as possible from the past. Incorporating Directives 849, 850, 851 and 852 of 2018 on waste management, in accordance with Directive 2019/904 on disposable plastics. And you know that we are coming a year ago to implement the directive of the European Union, since July 2021, a year earlier, in other words, to give a message of the attitude and philosophy we express. Furthermore, in accordance with the polluter pays principle, extended producer liability programmes are established to cover waste management and waste collection costs, as well as the costs of awareness-raising measures to prevent and reduce waste. From 3 July 2021, when the new framework is in place, 10 categories of disposable plastic products will cease to be placed on the market, with the necessary care for the companies holding stocks of these products, which will give sufficient time to adapt their orders. In addition, since the beginning of 2021, six months before the entry into force of the new framework, the general government bodies will not supply the above categories of disposable plastic products and will be required to include in the procurement documents a condition for prohibiting the supply and supply of such products. With these remarks - and to thank once again for his tolerance to the President - I am closing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u159	Be well. The questions are very good and the answers, so people need to know. And go to the next one. Next, the seventeenth under number 993/31-8-2020 is a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Privatization of LARCO: Injured workers and the environment'. You have two minutes for your prototype, Mr Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I just want to make a report about the PPP. What is the ECHR, the plan you've brought? No relation to what you describe. It is the PPP carried by SYRIZA for the Peloponnese for waste - which you have made your flag - which the European Commission rejected as overweight, against European directives and obligations and ultimately constitutes an illegal state aid to the private company 'TERNA'. Shocking things! You've taken this and made it a norm for all of Greece. That's the NSA in a few words. Now we go to LARCO and it makes me a great impression that Mr Hatzidakis, who blames LARCO for oweing EUR 340 million to PPC and EUR 135 million to PPC, is the cost, and the fines etc. And to the public. And it was the New Democracy that in 2004-2007 signed this incomprehensible contract where LARCO pledged to sell - when we say "LARCO" we are talking about 40% of the nickel market in Europe - it sold 40% of Europe's nickel 60% cheaper than the market price. We are also talking about this 'LARCO' debt. This 'LARCO' has caused major environmental problems. And these problems, your Government does not want to solve them, although it goes ahead with the dissolution of labour rights, the division and fragmentation of "LARCO" and possibly the disposal of it through a general bankruptcy. And to be clear, let's go a little bit to questions. How has the government safeguarded the environment as co-administered by LARCO so far? What actions have been taken by the Ministry to implement the plan of compliance of a company with environmental conditions, announced in 2011? Has the cost of environmental rehabilitation been included in the clearing plan? What is the pay of the liquidator, who has been put into practice in LARCO, to tell us that wages must be reduced, because this is his basic job, as has been done with other companies? And what's the average wage cost? How will the government ensure the working rights of workers, who have endured for decades the consequent errors of administration with dozens of dead people? Our main question is why, after you have had to pay off LARCO, since you are now dismantling and any employment rights in terms of wages - why were lives already lost - go on to continue environmental crime with the new owner who will have no responsibility for the past and free to continue contaminating the water-saving horizon with depleted chromium? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr Arseni. The Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras, will answer. Here, Mr. Tagaras, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. The Ministry of Environment and Energy took over the supervision of the company ‘LARCO’ in August 2019. In fact, it was called upon to solve a 30-five-year-old problem with economic and social implications. The evidence is a little well-known. ‘LARCO’ has closed its use in 2018 with a negative net position of EUR 308 million compared to EUR 217 million in 2015. In addition, in the four-year period 2015-2018, the ‘LARCO’ recorded cumulative losses of EUR 148 million, with any accuracy that the data can have, as it had not been published in a considered balance sheet and profit and loss statements since 2014. LARCO presents debts to third parties, suppliers, contractors, banks, insurance funds and more than EUR 600 million. Of these, 350 million are due to PPC, 80% of the total debt of the high-voltage industry, i.e. the energy-intensive industries. PPC had proceeded with debt regulation agreements with LARCO in the past, which the latter was unable to comply with, with the result that PPC would send an outlet to LARCO at the beginning of the year, noting that it would cut the power supply on February 17, 2020 if this situation continued. It was not interrupted because the Government submitted to the House rules on ‘LARCO’ adopted by Law 4664/2020. ‘LARCO’ is also threatened by a fine of EUR 49,5 million for non-compliance with the rules and the rights of verified greenhouse gas emissions, since it has been expressly and serially violating the polluter pays principle for years. Furthermore, it seriously burdened the environment from suspended particles from rotary furnaces, but also with the rejection of up to 2 million tonnes of rust per year, which were thrown into the Evian Gulf and were threatened with fines due to breaches of environmental legislation. And the final judgment of the European Court of Justice in Greece on unlawful State aid of EUR 160 million cannot be mentioned. It is therefore a company that has been found with zero available funds in the first quarter of 2020 and has made considerable cuts in maintenance costs of facilities and equipment, putting workers at risk, as you quite rightly said, in previous years to confirm this situation. It is clear from the above that workers and the environment have not now been damaged by the promoted privatisation of Larco, but for years as long as Larco was under full state control. In other countries, it was most likely that they would go bankrupt. However, in understanding the strategic role of the mining industry for the national economy, the government has chosen to proceed with the restructuring of the company in operation and to seek a strategic investor with the necessary funds and the necessary administrative know-how. Why, let us not make a joke, LARCO needs significant investment in order to work properly, in order to modernise the mining and production activities of nickel, in order to maintain and renew the equipment, in order to implement all environmental projects in compliance with environmental conditions and to strengthen the safety and hygiene conditions at the premises of the company. This is what we are trying to do with the provisions of Law 4665/2020 that we voted on last February and the company was placed under special management regime on the basis of a court ruling and a request from the Greek State and a special administrator has been installed. It was also decided to grant LARCO for the first time in the last ten years to EUR 35 million to cover the necessary operating costs of energy consumption, supply of raw and additional materials, as well as the costs of specific management and staff fees. This amount was gradually disbursed in March, June and August and was crucial in order to continue the activities of LARCO without entering into unscrupulous bankruptcy. And because I'm over time, I'm going to fill out, my dear colleague, in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u164	You see, Minister, that illegal state aid for LARCO is a big issue, but what the European Union has documented in the case of the PPP in the Peloponnese is a matter that the government wants to continue to promote, as the Minister has said, which said that 'yes, of course, we will not change the contract, but we will change the request for funding only'. Now, for LARCO again, I would remind you that in 2004-2007 LARCO had pre-saled its production of up to 60% cheaper than the market, which cost it huge sums of money. It would be in another position today, 'LARCO'. It is obviously not the only case, it was the most vain and became the government of the New Democracy. What is the big problem with 'Larco'? You mentioned the environmental aspects of rust rejection, but you did not touch the big issue of the watercourse in Evia. We had and we have mines, which you intend to give to the next private person with contract workers of EUR 800, but to the next individual to operate them. As Mr. Panteloglou says, professor, biochemical engineer and member of the ITAP Institute, "in the pond water of open mines such as "Larco" the phenomenon of acidic water is created. Water, oxygen of the atmosphere and sulfur and mixed sulphuric ores create sulphuric acid, which dissolves the salts of heavy metals and this is the mechanism that reaches us in the hexavalent chromium." In the mines of "LARCO" in Evia there are sulphites and these sulphites forbid them from extracting. This crime you want to continue with the privatisation of mines. Tell us. I asked you and you didn't answer. What commitments do you make at the moment, representing the Minister, concerning the restoration of the environment by LARCO, and particularly by the issue we are discussing today, the watercourse of Evia, which is in Psachna, which is in these areas, which together with Athos, are feeding Athens? This volatile chrome arrives on our plate, beyond the fact that it reaches people's lives there. What commitments do you make to rehabilitate the issue of hexavalent chromium in the digania and the wider area and what commitments do you receive that this crime will not continue with the new private person to whom they want you to hand over the quarries of Larco, in addition to the crime currently being prepared to break down the workers' working rights in Larco and of course the decent level of their livelihood?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Tagara, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. The company, continuing with the inefficient model of organisation and operation it had prevailed, would continue to write losses on a daily basis and would certainly not be able to carry out the necessary investments. You mentioned them too, and I pointed out them too. And I'm not going over the issue of environmental damage and seducer. I will tell you that in 2014 I had handled the issue of the restoration of Ashopous with a very important intervention there, but it's not the time, I'll see you at another time, dear colleague. The Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Finance, in close cooperation with the Special Administrator, proceed on the basis of Law 4664/2020 and the refreshing timetable. Competitions for the divestment of LARCO's assets and the entry of an investor into the company will be initiated in order to achieve the fullest possible satisfaction of employees, suppliers, subcontractors and other creditors for all claims made late on 28 February 2020. To date, all necessary measures have been taken every day to enable existing jobs and contracts with suppliers and subcontractors concluded by 28 February 2020 to continue. The Special Administrator shall make every effort to ensure that all obligations arising from 1 March 2020 and necessary to maintain the functioning of the company are normally served. It is noted that the financial resources of the company are limited and the international financial situation is not good. Nickel prices worldwide fell from $18,000 a ton early in June 12,000, while the low to date was €11,000 ton. However, the operation of LARCO throughout the restrictive measures was not interrupted and its obligations were normally served. The rationalisation of wage costs by the special manager, as provided for in the law, is made up of 25% of the average cost, with special attention to these difficulties for younger workers and low wages, because there will be a next day for LARCO, since all the procedures provided for are successfully completed and on the next day the role of the employees will be particularly important. Moreover, most analysts agree that long-term trends in nickel market prices are positive, in particular due to the development of the battery market in electric cars. We hope that this will also help the ongoing process. It is clear from the above that the support from the employees of LARCO is required, professionals, suppliers and subcontractors, to ensure the viability and functionality of the company until its privatisation is completed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In this way and then with the entry of a strategic investor - I shall end in half a minute, Mr President - a solution for Larco will be given thirty-five years later, which will be essential, solid and compatible with market data and fair to workers, the environment and society. Thank you very much once again for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u167	Be well. Thank you very much. Have a good day to both of you. Let's go to the second with number 1025/11-19-2020 and ask the first question from the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the subject: "Creating a Digital Museum in the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas". Mr. Kegeroglu, good evening, and good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the area of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas, the construction of the new International Airport of Heraklion Crete, which is coming to play a very important role in the development of tourism - and not just - for the next few decades. It is a challenge and an opportunity for the many archaeological sites in the wider region to receive further attention from the Ministry of Culture and the State in general, to continue the excavations, where they have not been completed, to be protected and to show them. One issue therefore is the protection, promotion of archaeological sites, the protection of cultural heritage in general and the exploitation of it - in the good sense - to highlight the history of our country. The second issue is on the occasion of the airport being created, not only is it a point of movement, but also a destination. It could - and there is this proposal, the idea from the municipality - create not another museum - because it is obviously not something that can be done, by removing archaeological findings and monuments from the collections of the existing museums - but by exploiting modern technology a digital museum. This museum, in addition to the antiquities of the wider region, the findings that have existed from this region - I mention the golden double axe and bronze of course from the area of Arkalochori and not only - could also work with the findings from the other archaeological areas, wider Crete and really be a model for the rest of the country. We therefore want to see what interest there is on the part of the Ministry for this idea, for this proposal. Then we see how the ministry could also have a guiding role, a role of scientific adviser - and not just - in this case, so that the municipality or other bodies can take all the other steps to proceed with the process. There is the idea of starting with a programme agreement between the Ministry, the municipality and perhaps another body to move this idea forward. From that point on, we expect your own views and thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Madam Minister, good evening, and good week. You have three minutes at your disposal, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis, for the question. As I had answered you to an older written question, on 13 January 2020, following the completion of the archaeological work and the maintenance and promotion of the most important archaeological sites in the area of the new International Airport, the whole region could be an open-air archaeological site - museum - in international literature these are referred to as open air museums - and automatically become a attraction for visitors. Already on January 30, 2020, the sub-project for the archaeological work and research of the Ministry of Culture is under way in the project: "Project - Construction - Financing - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airports of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of the Roads" with self-help from Heraklion Antiquities, with a total budget of 3,750,000 and ending on January 30, 2022. The above subproject includes the conduct of excavation work, as well as work on the protection, storage, maintenance and documentation of archaeological findings, in accordance with the archaeological law. In addition, it includes works for the protection, maintenance and management of monuments, archaeological sites and historical sites located within the area of occupation of the project, as well as the recording, maintenance and documentation of mobile findings from the excavation work in the area. The Ministry of Culture discusses the creation - as it does in other major projects - of an exhibition collection of archaeological findings, which might be revealed during the archaeological research in the area of the new airport, within or very close to its facilities. This, of course, also depends on the findings. But the Archaeological Service, which is aware of the archaeological stock of the region, considers that there will be findings. This collection can therefore function as a public information hub for the cultural stock of the region and as a central hub of the planned network of cultural routes of the Municipality of Minoa, using findings from previous surveys in the wider region. The creation of a digital museum in the municipality can be combined with the above actions of the Ministry. So it's something we're interested in, we see it. In particular, the Ministry's services could help the municipality if a request is made by itself or by other actors in the region, because until now at least - with what the services inform me - such a request has not been made. From that point on, it is clear that the services of the Ministry of Culture and, in particular, the responsible Department of Antiquities of Heraklion are at the disposal of local bodies, of course, and of the municipality, to support the preparation of these necessary studies that will be needed either for the specific digital museum you propose or in general for the promotion of archaeological sites. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] In particular for museums, I would like to say that the provisions of Law 3028/2002 are always applicable in order, in consultation and in cooperation with a body that wants to establish a museum, to comply with the necessary conditions and obligations laid down by the law. Therefore, the creation of a framework, such as the programming agreement you have proposed, does not find us any negative. On the contrary, I'd say. Besides, the Ministry of Culture and its services already have many programming contracts with both the municipalities of Crete and the Region of Heraklion. Therefore, if this request is made, we are prepared to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mendoni. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, at the heart of the matter, we seem to agree. There are scheduled excavations for the needs of the project, which, as you said, are within the area that was expropriated and along the road that will be built to serve the needs of the airport. That's what's going on. There's the design. Regionally and in contact, I would say, with the airport there is the Acropolis Smariou, the ancient city of Lykts, the Arkalochori Cave "Psitis Ilias", the Arkades, the Minoan Mansion in Galatas, another network of archaeological sites that they need, they have the need for further protection and promotion. All this, at the same time as the proposal made by the municipality, which is, of course, in the initial phase, with the idea - if you like - that has been formulated to create the digital museum, is a set that will actually give us a different dimension, a different way of protecting and exploiting cultural heritage. And the use of new technologies, however, will connect these archaeological sites and can bring us back to the globe of the time, not only in this particular area, but in general in Crete. So it's something that I understand most widely that we agree with. If it is in your intentions now, that can be. And the municipality will clearly address itself - and I think it will be because of the experience we have from other activities - a programme contract and have the guidance first of all of the municipality of the official body, which is the Ministry of Culture, in what is to come about in this case, and of course, about how they can proceed to all three levels: and the issue within the airport, which I think is the most contemplated and, of course, all the archaeological sites, the whole network of how the digital museum will emerge. If there is a collection which may be both within the airport or in another adjacent area - it is sufficient to serve the purpose and needs - that is something that, I think, will be investigated and formulated in scientific terms. I would therefore like to see, today, when we agree at the heart of the municipality's proposal and the thoughts of my own and your own, since there is an agreement, the possibility of concluding a programme contract, in order to go ahead with this idea, getting flesh and bones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. MEP, because you are closely following what has been said in the Heraklion Regional Unit, you know very well that the Archaeological Service, the Archaeological Service of Heraklion, has conducted and carried out various archaeological research and work in the wider area of the Airport. This is done not only for the specific project, for which, moreover, there is a contractual obligation and deadline for the archaeological work to be completed in a specific timeframe. So you know the work he's doing. I would add to this that it is currently dealing with demarcation of the archaeological sites, the areas that you mentioned, namely Galata, Smari, Lillian, Mamaluko, Lytto, and the expropriations that are needed to highlight specifically Smari and Lytto, are already under way. Cultural routes are within our priorities. It is within the priorities of both the Ministry and the Government. The emergence with modern technologies of cultural heritage is also within our priorities. So this is where we absolutely coincide. On the other hand - you are probably aware of this - there is already a programme agreement on the revelation and promotion of archaeological monuments in the Monofatsis region, which is also entered into the same logic, which is due to be completed in 2021. Also in progress is a five-year program of the In Athens Archaeological Society in Lytto, under supervision and with the participation of Heraklion Antiquities Branch, in collaboration with the Institute of Advanced Research in Princeton and the Institute for the study of the ancient world of New York. So, from here, we will also have extra material at the level of digital products, which will allow us to integrate them into these cultural routes as well. Finally, we agree - I think - that Greece is an advanced archaeological site. In any major or lesser work, things must be revealed, which, if they are displayed - because, I repeat, not all ancient displays - are used beyond their education and entertainment, if you like, dimension and as economic tools of the region, as development tools and attract people. In that sense, therefore, this thought, which is still a first-class, of the Municipality of Minoa, also forms part of this logic. Therefore, Heraklion Antiquities and the central services of the Ministry of Culture are at the disposal of the institutions and the municipality, to see how it could start and plan a co-operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Mendoni. Then we will discuss the sixth question, number 1036/14-9-2020, on a second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Stop the crime at Venizelos Metro Station in Thessaloniki". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for being in person in the debate. At this meeting it is a little rare to have ministers. We usually have Undersecretaries. This is a very well-known matter. In fact, I appeal to you, as you can see from the title, to stop this crime. In addition to the calls, which are storming calls from the international community, all the major scientists of Byzantine culture and Byzantineists from around the world, we now have legal measures. The Single Association of Officials of the Ministry of Culture at Attica, Central and Islands, the Pan-Hellenic Association of Antiquities Conservatives, the Association of Extensive Archaeologists and the Association of Greek Archaeologists jointly submitted to the Council of State an application for annulment of the decision to extract and reinstate antiquities at Venizelos station. The secondment study has been described as an exhibition of ideas, immature, waste and incomplete. At the same time, the process of approving the secondment seems to be illegal, as the Archaeologists Association denounces. I shall read out exactly his text: "The decision was taken on the basis of an opinion of the CSCE, taken at an illegal meeting due to the participation of two of its members who should have been excluded from the meeting. The participation of one was unauthorised due to its previous involvement as a mediator of the ‘ATTIF’ with a insistence on the resolution of the secondment. The second is due to the fact that he was a direct relative, associated with a direct economic interest in the outcome of the case, having prepared the study on the secondment and relocation of this monumental set, which he has already submitted to the "ATTIF MERO" and the latter in turn to the Ministry of Culture. I would remind you that they were both attending a CSCE meeting at the same time. It is therefore a given global outcry from the whole scientific community. And indeed, we have now witnessed experts on the inappropriateness of the study. What would this study say, Minister, when we have to dissolve a monument unique to Byzantine culture, the center of the Middle Byzantine Thessaloniki, take it out of brick - brick, part - and get it out of its natural space? We will destroy antiquities underneath, to make a work, which is precisely because you extract antiquities, will remain without funding, because it will go back in time. We're going to destroy a monument and eventually one, the construction company. We invite you to keep the pretexts and change the decision, maintain the antiquities, give the metro to the Thessalonians and protect this monument. He's gonna lose a lot of millions - maybe billions - in compensation for the company. Little evil in front of the rest. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. It has the floor for the Minister for Culture and Sport to answer, Mrs Styliani Mendoni, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u178	Your Honor, because you have used legal arguments, I will also speak with legal arguments. You know that most of the work of the metro of Thessaloniki is located in the historic centre of the city, inside and outside the walls of the ancient city, where there is a great density of ancient remains. These are well-known things. The Venizelos station is located at the intersection of the two modern Egnatia and Venizelos streets, in the heart of the Byzantine city. The archaeological site, revealed during the excavation work in the context of the construction of the metro, is a timeless testimony of the city's urban organization. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. It should be noted that in September 2015, the reference to the issue, which the Ministry had already dealt with for at least three years, is made by the Minister of Culture. I mean the CIA meeting. The secondment of the antiquities of the Venizelos station has already been approved since 2004, before the excavations began, because archaeologists knew what could be revealed, but also since the beginning of 2013, after the completion of the excavations, to be reconstructed in 2014. On this ministerial decision, the Municipality of Thessaloniki appealed to the Council of State. The Council of State decided on the legality of the 2014 Ministerial Decision. Thus, it was validated as the only technically feasible solution with an irrevocable decision of the Council of State in 2016. According to this, it was considered legal the solution to the secondment and the relocation of antiquities to Venizelos Station, as it is based on the provisions of the Constitution, the Granada Convention, the European Convention for the Protection of Archaeological Heritage and Law 3028/2002. In addition, the court has ruled that the Venizelos station is part of the implementation of a technical infrastructure project, and therefore there is an exceptional case for it to achieve a safe implementation and operation in order to meet the vital needs of the social group. The Court took the view that the importance of antiquities had been weighed on the need to carry out the work and the general public interest, and considered that all alternatives and suggestions, their implications and the alternatives, particularly as regards the conservation and transport of the station, were investigated and taken into account before taking a decision on the secondment of antiquities. Despite the decision of the court, the then government has decided to change planning in an unfounded manner, doubting the rapid and appropriate completion of the work and the protection of the antiquities themselves, which is inextricably linked to the completion of the project. In December 2019, it was introduced to the Central Archaeological Council for discussion, following the weakness of the "ATTITIMERO" - the company itself, namely, stated that it cannot proceed with what the Ministerial Decision 2007 provided for - the documentation of the only solution to the completion of the Venizelos station in the context of the construction of the main metro line. At its meeting on 18-12-2019, the Council delivered an opinion in favour of the construction of the Venizelos station by temporary secondment and relocation of antiquities. Implementation of this decision was entrusted by the sponsor company to a study firm to prepare the studies on the basis of the specifications drawn up as a result of the cooperation of four central directorates of the Ministry of Culture and the relevant responsibility for antiquities of Thessaloniki. On 4 August it was submitted by the "ATTIC METRO" to the relevant departments of the Ministry, with a view to its introduction into the Ministry, the study of the secondment, temporary placement, storage and resettlement of the archaeological findings at Venizelos station, which, as we said, was carried out by a specific study office. Since then, the services of the Ministry of Culture, the responsible officials, have held various self-conscious meetings, various meetings and on 10 September a comprehensive autopsy took place in the presence of both the Secretary-General of the Ministry and the staff of the "ATITITIMERO" and the staff of the contracting consortium. Following this autopsy, the scholars were asked to send additional data, which was the case with their statement on Thursday 17 September. In view of the above, the Ministry's services shall prepare the file for admission to the OSCE. It will be introduced on Wednesday, 23 September. The Council's agenda has already been posted online, at the ministry's node, on the Council's agenda. I would like to emphasise and understand that everyone is aware that the only body responsible for making an effective opinion on the study is the Central Archaeological Board and I have complete confidence in the members of the board. They are scientists of unknown prestige and I absolutely believe that they will decide in consciousness about the Venizelos station. The secondment and relocation of antiquities is in any case a particularly difficult and complex project. However, the experience, knowledge and interest of the services of the Ministry of Culture make, for my own measures, a proper completion of this work. I think that experience and knowledge from the Archaeological Service is difficult to dispute about such issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mendoni. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u180	Madam Minister, I am speaking to you, based on the experience and knowledge of the Archaeological Service and the negative opinions on secondment. In any case, you speak of confidence in the members of the CAR, who were appointed. You didn't trust the members of the previous CAR. You have appointed members to whom you can trust. This has to end sometime. The CSCE cannot be an institution of each Minister and of each Minister. It must be an objective scientific tool, an institutional tool. In order to support what is happening today, you referred to 2014, when the Council of State made a decision, because you said that there was no alternative. Since then, too much has changed. The society of Thessaloniki found the alternative. The society of Thessaloniki with open procedures has brought solutions to it with its universities. We're no longer in 2014. They don't delay the ancient subway. Their secondment delays the subway. Their secondment doubts whether it will continue to be financed by the European Union. The answer is close, in 2023. So while there was a conservation study in situ, if ever possible in the chronological archaeology world, it was spent 5 million already on its implementation and you come to make a decision on their secondment. So the situation is very different and S.E.'s attitude is different. I think it will be very different, Minister. Furthermore, the argument that there is no other solution is no longer the case. Not only is there a solution, but 5 million public money was spent on its implementation. As regards the fact that the "ATTITIC MEETRO" came to you and told you that we cannot implement the study - I note the study of "ATITIC MEETRO" - let me remind you that the Prime Minister's mandate to extract antiquities from the September 2019 ID before the "ATITIC METRO" came to ask you for anything. At Minister's command, it worked. So I really call on you to stop this crime. I repeat that what you are doing right now is: Dissolve a monument, a historic place. Dissolve antiquities underneath. You are making the project a far-reaching dream for the Thessalonians, as it will not be implemented in the short term, so that there is funding from the European Union. You're delaying his delivery. All of this with a beneficiary: manufacturers who claim a half and a half billion compensation. Stop it, because what's going on is unambiguous!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Madam Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u182	First of all, in order not to create impressions, three opinions of the Central Archaeological Council were in favour of the secondment of antiquities and their reposition and an opinion is against. Also, SYRIZA in 2015 when he took over also changed the members of the Central Archaeological Council for his own reasons. In any case, however, this is a matter for the Minister concerned. It's not against any law. To put things in place and know what we're talking about illegal. From that point on, I can assure you that no study has been carried out to make possible the construction of the metro with the country's maintenance of antiquities. There's no study either you want to accept it or you don't want to. There's no study. Therefore, the only technical solution for the protection and enhancement of the findings and the smooth and secure operation of the station and the construction of the metro is the temporary displacement and relocation of antiquities. There is an obvious inability to implement a "study" - within introductory terms the word - which has been unsubstantiated. The previous metro administration, and not the administration, which, if you like, the Government of New Democracy, has taken the study that the contractor has at one time produced. That's not all we're talking about. There are documents to be documented and documented. What would be very dangerous would be to go ahead with a so-called study by 2023, which was absolutely impossible. Even if it could be done, which can't be done, it couldn't be earlier than 2026. In any case, therefore, with this solution you are proposing, the EUR 712 million that costs the project as a whole should be returned to the European Union. According to the 2020 decision, the secondment of antiquities is reassigned to 92%. They don't disintegrate, as you systematically want to say. 92% of them are placed. It is exactly the same percentage that could emerge by country. Also, when antiquities are extracted, the subjects may be evident to excavate. If they don't get distracted, we just don't know what's underneath. For which secondment, as well as for the specific subject, a specific methodology shall be followed in full compliance with the rules of art and science, taking into account the specificity, uniqueness and importance of this project. A similar methodology has been applied in the past to the secondment of antiquities from the eastern and western wells of the Venizelos station, the seconding of antiquities to the northern and southern entrance of the station of Agia Sophia - and I can assure you that, according to the scientific community, these antiquities were of at least equal value to those of Venizelos, if not more important - at the Sintrivani station, as well as to a multitude of public works of paramount importance, which after the restoration of antiquities and the diligent harmony, it is difficult to understand the previous procedure. Finally, in order to ensure that the secondment, relocation and emergence of antiquities are carried out scientifically, they have already been given by the relevant departments of the Ministry to the "ATIO MEETRO" guidelines and specifications for the preparation of the necessary studies. In the latter context, the necessary interdisciplinary cooperation is ensured by the participation of scientific specialists and projects with similar experience in the coordination of the Ministry's services, which - I repeat - have proven scientific training to address such issues. I must point out that no decision of ours is illegal, and I must also point out that there are no new elements to impose any review of the issue by the CSCE. Also, with regard to appeals to the Council of State - you refer to this in your question, you have said so here too - appeals have been made to the Council of State and in a relatively immediate time they are being avenged. On November 6th, they'll be tried. So, why is the agony? The court will judge and the administration will have to adapt to any decision of the Council of State. So we're all on hold. We have complete confidence in the proper court judgment. Why are you fighting? If the Council of State makes the 2020 ministerial decision illegal, very simply the administration is obliged to comply with the decision of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u183	Thank you both very much. Good luck to both of us, although Mr Arsenis will come again because he has another question. We move to the eighteenth question under number 1004/1-9-2020 on the second question by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens, Mer25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "The banned fishing by Turkish trawlers in Greek waters". Mrs. Sacorafa, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in my question I describe facts. Organized fleet of giant trawlers had been fishing for ten days in Greek territorial waters, without any permission or notice from the authorities. And how would that be possible, since the Greek law imposes a cessation of fishing? Moreover, the area where there are exceptional and protected habitats of coral and limestone rosemary over the seven hundred years has a huge ecological interest. The hidden treasure of the Aegean is destroyed in the region, as it described a special international study under the auspices of the UN, with the participation of the "Archipelagos" Institute that highlighted the event. I'll submit you articles in English and English. I know that the Criminal Code passed by SYRIZA abolished specific criminal provisions punishing smuggling. The Fisheries Code, however, which provides for sanctions, is still in force and after a year in the government, I think that these matters should have been dealt with already. The results, then, are that Greek fishermen are damaged by thousands of tons of fish, the Greek economy suffers huge damage, the public is losing substantial revenue, society is faced with huge and irreversible destruction in unique ecosystems of the archipelago, depending only on tropical ones, which, contrary to Regulation 1967/2006, you have not yet mapped. I did not stand by the fact that the trawlers were Turkish, because I refuse to accept that the non-response is a positive move towards Turkish provoking. I'm going to testify to these papers, too. The Port Corps and the Coast Guard do not interfere, despite complaints, nor do they seek assistance from the Navy for islands. There is a state of lawlessness and insecurity that affects the islands' morality. The country appears not to protect its sovereign rights, which in this case are identical to the people's interests, to the protection of the environment and, of course, to micro-professional fishermen. So I ask you: How has the illegal fishing been handled by Turkish trawlers within Greek waters during the ban period? What were the actions taken by the Port House to confirm the relevant infringements and to prosecute the perpetrators and how does the Ministry intend to prevent such illegal practices in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy will answer Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis. Mr. Plakatakis, good evening, good week! You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, for the opportunity to raise a very important issue, which concerns, on the one hand, our sovereign rights in the Aegean and, on the other, the protection of the marine environment. The incident of illegal fishing is one of many incidents, which have been recorded every year, especially in the maritime area of Zurafas, in the Pharmaconissi and Agathonisi islands, mainly in July and August. Now for this particular incident, mentioned by Mrs Sakorafa, a ship of the Port Body located in Greek territorial waters at the same time four Turkish fishing vessels: a south-east of the island of Manofagon, two east of the island of Agios Minas and another in the maritime area between Furnons and Samos. With the immediate intervention of the Port Corps, these vessels were expelled from Greek territorial waters. This is an activity which violates both the Greek legislation and the European regulations and the rules of international organisations and bodies, such as the International Union for the Protection of Thunnoids and the General Committee for Fisheries of the Mediterranean, which operates within the framework of the United Nations World Organisation for Fisheries and Agriculture, to which, of course, Turkey is also a Contracting Party. Now, given that they are causing a huge burden on heavy fishing gear used by trawlers, violation of these rules is a very important issue for the European Union, and that is why Member States, with documented information, are allowed to pass on vessels that violate the regulations, without, of course, being subject to or requiring on-site inspection at sea. And then, of course, we have the imposition of sanctions, but also measures on the vessel and also on the flag states of the vessel. The Port House, knowing very well about these illegal fishing activities, has drawn up similar operational plans. For example, vessels are warned by means of a VHF signal and are invited to leave the Greek territorial waters. In addition, all the necessary evidence is collected - audiovisual material and photographic - which haunt this infringement and is sent to the relevant Ministry, the Ministry of Rural Development, together with the relevant reports - which, of course, is then sent to the European Commission in order to impose sanctions. That is exactly what happened in this particular case, and it is worth mentioning that precisely because there was the immediate intervention of the Port House, but also because there was a great deal of publicity in this case, for several days later, Turkish fishing vessels stopped their illegal practices. At the same time, what I want to mention and of particular value and importance is that the immediate priorities of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy are to strengthen the operational capabilities of the Port Authority and with additional operational means, but also with additional staff. This also results in increased patrols, but also increased coverage spaces. This new reality has two measurable and very positive results: Firstly, they have been reduced in the last four months of 2020, compared with the corresponding period of 2019, by 95% of migration flows. I would also like to point out that this is without any human life loss. Secondly, we have the great reduction in incidents of illegal fishing. From seven hundred forty-eight flight reports and a thousand sixty-five incidents in 2019, this year until the end of August we had four hundred forty-three flight reports and seven hundred eighteen incidents. I would like to take this opportunity, once again, to publicly congratulate the representatives of the Port House who, over three hundred five days a year, twenty-four hours a day, protect and guard the sea borders of our country, protect the environment and do so with determination, with due respect for the rules of international law and with absolute priority for respect for human life, and this is something that has recently been proven in the very big business near the island of Halki, where they have been rescued near our hundreds of people. I also want to assure the House that our decision is to further strengthen it by means of additional operational instruments, systems. We have already increased the organic power of the Port Authority by a thousand five hundred people by recent legislation, and at this point a very large armament programme, EUR 400 million from the NSRF, EUR 170 million from the Internal Security Fund, and in the next 2021-2027 programming period the armament programme will exceed EUR 800 million. So the implementation of our planning ensures not only that our country's maritime borders are better protected, but even more protection of the marine environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Placiotakis. Here, Mrs Sakorafa, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his kindness to come and answer the question, because I really admit that our islanders are in a very messy state of excitement and anguish from these events, which the Minister described very graphically.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u189	That's why I left him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u190	Mr Minister, I too would like to congratulate the representatives of the Port Corps. I am very well aware of the fact that I am walking the islands of the Cyclades, mainly, that they are subordinated and you should see this in the first place. Secondly, with regard to the case to which you referred, I do not want to question you on this particular occasion, I will simply say that because I have looked too hard, I have had no such information wherever I have been. And I addressed - you will allow me to tell you all. Minister, I am sure that, in such a case, the tactics followed are any incident to be recorded in the books of the ports, which make these lists. And I think if you had these cards in your hands, I'm sure you'd have brought them into this process. But I hope they didn't give it to you and bring it to you next. What I would like to stress, Mr President, is that international law, but also domestic law, does not exist to regulate cloudy and overreacting pursuits. It mainly regulates the limit of the power of each state to organise its production, to organise independent and uninformed everyday life in the demands of the law and of the people's mandate and to prevent and suppress and punish anti-social behaviours. Imagine coming tomorrow, Serbs, Bulgarians - whatever - and trying to seize the wealth of our region on northern Greece, and we should not make any move to ban them, not to interfere with the authorities. The exact same thing is what we're talking about now. I am surprised, however, that no comment had been made by the government so far, and I do not believe that the Foreign Ministry once it has known incidents of illegal fishing has intervened, it is conducting protests in Ankara without delay. The only government factor mentioned this was the Minister for Migration Policy, who, on 6 September, linked the issue to the recruitment of border guards, which I cannot understand what they will do at sea. I mean Mr Kumucako and I will present to you the relevant document that refers to this. Also, I remember that there were nocturnal staircases of the Port Corps that fled to warships. I will also present to you articles on a relevant question by Mr Loverdos on a relevant incident with "ELLI", where then on a nanoscopy, which was probably not annoyed, until the nanopsy took place, the Turks had flew - it says - sacks of flour at sea, and in fact it was fish. Is it the same tactic today? The European and the legislation of many of the parallel states imposes great restrictions on trawlers. Greece has complied, as the Minister has said, with the common fisheries policy and has provided a bonus for the destruction of thirteen thousand small wooden vessels, which were, in the majority, extremely good examples of the traditional shipbuilding art of the Greek caravans for low-voltage coastal fishing, even though there were other proposals that I will also present to you in the Minutes. Thousands of jobs have been lost from coastal fishing. And we won't protect - I wanted to ask - all the remaining ones, anyway? The destruction of industrial fishing by Turkish trawlers, which - I am sure - are enormous, are incalculable. The disaster that is taking place is extremely great. So you will allow me to relate this to the hot and topical issue of the arrangement of maritime zones. In the region where ancient peoples live from the depths of history any bilateral arrangement will affect the historical rights of a third country. Only a regional conference, involving all the countries of the South-East Mediterranean, can effectively regulate the exploitation rights of maritime zones. Only in this way, without prejudice can respect for the environment, sustainability and respect for the sovereign rights of all states in the region and international peace be guaranteed. The size of Greece's marine space and its historical and international presence require that this initiative be led. And don't tell me too, Minister, like another colleague in this House, that we are proposing Yalta, because Yalts is the imposition of cynicism against many. This is precisely what cynicism we are fighting as Mera25, which seeks the well-being of the many. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologise if I abused your time, but this is a very serious matter, and I hope the Minister really will answer not to me, but to the islanders who are waiting for a concrete and clear answer to these facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs Sacorafa. I guess that's why he came here himself to answer. Here you go, Mr. Placiotakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would once again like to stress that the New Democracy Government is giving its own response every day to the issues of illegal fishing and indeed with very positive results. Unlike the previous SYRIZA government not only did not show due attention and sensitivity - I think Mrs Sakorafa mentioned it - in the protection of Greek fishermen, but with the recent amendment of the Criminal Code she abolished Article 401 which provided that a foreigner who fishes, without having been granted a right to the kayalitis zone of the Greek state, is punished by a penalty or by imprisonment of up to six months. With the choice of the previous government of SYRIZA fishing by any foreign fishing vessel in Greek territorial waters is no longer a criminal offence. I would also like to make it clear that a firm choice and absolute priority, I would say, of the Mitsotakis Government, is to strengthen the Port House by means of additional operational means, by means of systems, which will make it very much easier for us to respond effectively to any incident in fishing. I would point out to you that in our equipment programme, as I have already mentioned, it is being implemented and in the next few months there will be a competition, the port patrols will be equipped with the necessary thermal cameras, and stable and portable, and the Fisheries Monitoring Centre will also be upgraded for early detection. So these are two very important initiatives that will certainly help to improve the protection of both the marine environment and, of course, the preservation of our country's maritime borders. After all, we must not forget that we owe this in our home country, we owe it to Greek society, we owe it to Greek islanders, to Greek fishermen, and we are determined to do so in the most emphatic and effective way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u193	Thank you too, Minister. And now we move on to the first under number 1020/7-9-2020 in the first cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Insufficient molecular tests for COVID -19, the financial burden of the citizens and the scandalous favor of a private diagnostic centre". Mr. Blonde, good evening, and good week! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, we have repeatedly referred to this issue, but unfortunately there is neither a concrete answer nor an improvement in the reflexes of the government. We are in a phase of particularly increased spread of coronary cases in the community, which imposes increased testing at this time both for the identification of suspected cases and for the traceability of their contacts, as well as for preventive screening and controls on vulnerable population groups, in categories of workers, in health, in people who are caring for the elderly. So at this stage, in my view, a very large arrhythmia and inadequacy on the part of the state has appeared. You receive too many times that you have increased the number of tests carried out in the country. This is something that has happened worldwide, not only in Greece, precisely because the availability of diagnostic kits has increased in the market and the availability of reagents, because companies have managed to supply the countries in a more comprehensive way. The big problem is that from this number of thirteen thousand tests, you have not yet told us exactly what number it is covered by the public, that is, the state pays it, and what the citizen pays from his pocket. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because the picture we have is that more and more parts of society are being forced not because they want to make a preventive check up, but because the state forces it in a pandemic to carry out diagnostic tests and have a negative result, to resort to private laboratories and to charge 100% of their pockets, because the EEAS refuses to compensate them. Four months ago, you replied that if necessary we will proceed to compensation. Now, then, it needs to be. Clearly, it's necessary. And in the light of the school year and the need to explore the febrileities of either children, students or teachers, if this provision does not exist, a huge, unreliable part of this cost will be passed on to citizens' pockets for each case of febrile disease in which the CIVID -19 will be excluded. So there are two, three crucial questions here. Firstly, what is your plan to increase the productivity of public laboratories, so as to reduce the need for recourse to the private sector? Noteworthyly, the day before yesterday I was in Thessaloniki and went to "Papanikolaou", in one of the two, three major reference hospitals of northern Greece and found that until early September it did not carry out diagnostic tests, molecular testing in the hospital and sent them to private laboratories by paying hundreds of thousands of euros and burdening the hospital's budget. So what is the plan to increase the capacity of public laboratories? When will the EEAS begin to compensate the cost, obviously after prescribing and based on medical evidence, for the citizens who are forced to serve in private laboratories? Thirdly, will there be transparency in how hospitals cooperate with private laboratories? Because here and with a clear example the 1st Health Region was, in my view, a major ethical and political issue for the government and the Ministry. The contract was awarded to a specific laboratory without any procedure, completely opaque, without criteria, without an invitation of interest, without anything and even a laboratory in which, paradoxically, a member of the Committee of Experts had been responsible for some time ago. If you do not understand that this practice exposes the Ministry, but also the prestige of the Committee of Scientists and Experts, which is recommending and must be highly trusted at this time of society, so that people can consciously comply and help us all to deal with the pandemic, then I really think you have not understood the criticality of the juncture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthi. The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozamani, good evening, good week, you have three minutes at your disposal to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, we have indeed discussed this many times and I think we have exhausted it. However, given the timely question you have put, it is an opportunity to repeat it once again, so that we have a more complete picture of what is happening in the country and what is happening. I will therefore repeat that from the day the first case of coronary was detected in our country, on 26 February 2020, the Greek Government and the Ministry of Health reacted quickly and effectively with regard to laboratory controls. In a very short time we have managed to implement a series of important actions. We have expanded the population under laboratory control. As far as the criteria for carrying out the check are concerned, anyone can't run a test. There are criteria. We have doubled the daily number of examinations carried out, multiplyed the sampling points, reduced by five times the cost of the sample concerned, and ensured availability and adequacy of reagents and analysts to address exceptional needs and further requirements that may arise during the course of the pandemic. And because you mention it in your question, I will tell you by the way what the state will do in order to strengthen public laboratories. You know very well that, first of all, there is no question of lacking or stopping tests or adequacy on the market. I would also like to say to you, as you have seen, that Greece is one of the first countries to bring about, because of the crisis that broke out in Lesvos, the rapid tests which helped us to have immediate and rapid results. In fact, we will also use them in other cases, in order, for example, to investigate suspected cases of disease in various structures, such as penitentiaries and long-term health care structures, for the selection of people with respiratory symptoms at external hospitals and emergency situations, for laboratory testing in hospitalised patients at hours not working by laboratories and for the control of symptomatic people in remote areas and so on. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, during the pandemic - we will also be living in the next few years - technology is evolving as far as the diagnostic control of the coronary is concerned. The rapid tests will be daily practice in a short time. We were one of the first countries we brought along. In addition, we are strengthening the public health system with two more machinery that have been delivered and their establishment in the "Attica" Hospital and in the "Ahepa" Hospital. These are donations of the "ELELANDS" and use the "Real-time PCR" method with tiny saliva samples. The production capacity of the public health system is also increasing by almost 12 thousand tests per day. Six thousand can reach each machine a day. So you realise that as long as the time goes, and as long as the needs increase, we are able to cope with increased coronary needs. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I will take some time from my denture in order to answer the question. So, as I said, we widened the basis of the population that had access to laboratory research for coronary. We have reached the 15 times the number of daily laboratory tests from eight hundred fifty tests to about thirteen thousand tests a day on average. Yes, indeed some of them are in the private sector, but at any time they needed and met the criteria for carrying out the test, the test was done, and will take place in public structures without any cost to the citizens. We have also increased the points of sample controls and laboratories and, in view of the situation in which we are today, we also have the possibility of carrying out laboratory tests in the country's health centres. We are therefore increasing the control and sorting points for suspected incidents. We have reduced the cost of each sample under investigation, as I told you, and we have ensured further availability. We have to join forces with the private sector in this battle, and that is what we have done. Since last July, laboratory controls have been carried out in public university and private laboratories. I would remind you of the cooperation we have with the "Virtual Action", where more than ten major institutions in the country carry out diagnostic checks on the coronary. In this way, we have managed to have results within 24 hours of taking any sample, even from remote and remote regions, while in other countries, such as Belgium, France and Britain, the result is more than seventy-two hours from taking the samples. Our choice for examinations and non-State bodies, namely from universities and private laboratories, was beneficial both for the time of obtaining the results and for the reliability of them and for the cost of analysis per sample. We are talking about specific laboratories that met the conditions we had, they were certified and all the laboratories charged the cost per sample, which we had defined. So there was nothing about the assignments you say. We don't demonize the private sector. We work together, ensuring the interests of the public and ensuring the health of the population. I shall return, Mr President, to my dentistry, because I have some more to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u197	Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u198	Minister, you say you've exhausted the matter. Truly, our patience is beginning to run out. We've always been polite, but no practical answers. I'm telling you this: how many of these thirteen thousand tests are people paying from their pockets? You're saying some of this is happening in the private sector. The requirement is therefore that no tests should be carried out in the private sector without being compensated by the EEAS. Can't you understand that thing? We're entering a period of increased demand. Will you transfer costs to citizens' pockets in times of crisis, unemployment, poverty in the country? I mean, mercy! You yourself say that we have high private spending in the country. How is it possible in a pandemic period for an examination relating to public health rather than the individual health of a citizen, the result of which measures will depend, not only on the parent, but also on the school community if a child, for example, is a body or a trainer in order to take measures, close departments? For these tests, it can't be public responsibility and compensation. That's the one. The second is: you have not exploited the diagnostic capabilities of the wider public sector. With regard to this flagship cooperation, which you mentioned about high-quality research centres, this is not the case today, or 50% of the capacity agreed at the initial stage, which was about six thousand tests a day. I have a picture that half of it isn't done! And you do nothing to strengthen that! So I think it's your choice. It is a political choice to use the increased needs of the period and the marginal potential of the public health system, to provide opportunities for cooperation with the private sector, to unite forces, as you say. When we say about the private sector, we obviously do not mean the "PASTER" or the EBRD, EBRD, the Athens Academy, etc. We mean private enterprises, which especially here in Athens, you have given a non-transparent job. How can we say it? On what criteria have you chosen Mr Karamenas, Minister, it is very simple - indeed, knowing that a member of the committee, Mr Magorcin, was a scientific officer of the centre? Do you not understand that this exposes the state? What are the measures to shield the committee? Are you going to put it incompetent? Will you make predictions of conflicts of interest to convince the citizen that what the scientists say to him is not of interest, but are internationally accepted instructions? I think these are critical questions that need to be answered. I would like to say one last word because I see that you are taking the rapid test antigen to the debate. These tests, Minister, are targeted in particular. They are not in any way disease-related nor can they substitute for molecular control. You know very well that they are screening, wide control over the general population, usually in asymptomatic people, when we want to check, for example, a large refugee camp. For example, in Moria, for ten thousand people, they are, of course, appropriate. But it's not to check case wires or to trace contacts of confirmed cases. I think that bibliographically they are shown to have reduced sensitivity and specificity and there should be no substitution, if necessary, in the name of the least cost, of a technology that has a specific indication at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Xanthi. Here, Mr Contozamanis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Xanthos, as far as the private lab is concerned, you all know there was an issue with the CSR. For some days these samples were promoted to a private laboratory. The CSR is operating properly right now. In fact, as I told you, this private workshop, like the others, has been working with the public sector since the summer. It's four certified laboratories. It is the same price at all and according to the production capacity of each laboratory, promoted there samples.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u201	How did you choose them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u202	Qualifications, Mr. Xanthi. Be certified first...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u203	Did you make a call of interest?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u204	...and accept the cost that we set as the maximum per sample. I told you that we threw the cost of the sample under consideration five times. You know very well how much the sample cost at the beginning of pandemic. As far as I am concerned, there is also a certain production potential which is increasing and which will be used at the outset. Because they will also come to the health centres where tests will be carried out, winter will come, as the students have told us. It makes sense to have available production capacity in order to deal with winter. And I told you that we have both additional machines which will increase by 12 000 per day the possibility of carrying out a molecular check. About the fast tests - you know about it and because of your specificity - they give us the possibility, if necessary, to repeat the test several times. I referred to suspected cases, but it enables us to see whether the coronary is the cause of the coronary and to take preventive measures. There are such specifications with a high degree of sensitivity and speciality that we can repeat often and of course, if necessary, do molecular control. That's what we're doing. We know what's going on. We do nothing less, nothing more than international literature and international experience tells us. And I conclude by saying that we are not transferring the cost of carrying out the molecular control to anyone. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have said it a thousand times, we will say again, that whenever our fellow citizen had to perform a test and met the conditions, it became free of charge. And right now, it's free.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u205	But where do you live, Minister? People pay out of their test pocket every day. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u206	You don't want to understand that, Mr. Xanthi, unfortunately. For one more reason, you have said so yourself. Because there's a public health issue. In public health, the citizen must certainly not be charged with and we are not burdened with it. Thousands of tests have been carried out, I repeat, when needed, at no cost to the citizen. If anyone wants to go out and run a private-sector test, we won't stop him. Of course he'll pay it out of his pocket. But when we have specific criteria that are met, specific situations, then the cost of molecular control is covered by the public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, if possible - perhaps this should be the case - to limit yourself to your time in the question, with a slight tolerance to your dentistry. In the third with number 1031/14-9-2020, a top-level question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The serious subsidization of the General Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Crete" will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Kontozamanis. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Minister, we return to a timely question that had been asked to you 17-1-2020 and which concerned again the subsecution of the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos Crete. Unfortunately, despite the government promises you made at that time - and, if necessary, I will say in my dentistry - and while we are already in the second wave of pandemic in a heavily charged area, in the region of Crete, due to tourism, which would expect the necessary staffing and financing of hospitals, these promises have proved to be fake, in short, 'closed checks'. There are still these deficiencies at Saint Nicholas Hospital. Two hundred and twenty-five empty organic posts remain, while no permanent intake has been made in the past year. Indeed, according to data from the 7th RS on 29-10-2019 and while there are at least seventeen empty medical posts in the hospital, only six permanent NS doctor posts in February were announced, nine months late and no crises have yet been completed. There are, of course, no permanent pathologists in these positions, when four pathologists are empty. What, of course, was the solution to the hospital administration? He sent on July 30 a call for expressions of interest for two months with two pathologists with a service document to deal with emergencies. They also continue to lack specialties, such as a pediatrician, an endocrinologist and others. He doesn't watch daily ORL, urologist, neurologist, gastroenter. Physician deficiency also results in surgery lists including two hundred and twenty-five patients, according to data from 1-9-2020. With regard to other health workers, other than doctors, the vacancy was a hundred seventy - three in October 2019, of which eighty - six nursing nurses. At the same time, a large part of the hospital staff shortages are being "swallowed" temporarily by contractors and movements. In particular, some sixty ancillary recruitments were carried out during the pandemic, which accounts for only about 30% of the gaps, and thus serves at the Saint Nicholas Hospital at this stage at least a hundred contractors. In March 2021, PPP contracts end seventy-seven of one employee. You understand what malfunctioning problems will be faced by the hospital with the subordinated departments and instead of permanent recruitment, personal staff of particularly general doctors from health centers and regional hospitals are moved to cover newspapers and doctors are moved from the hospitals of Heraklion, as well as between clinics to cover CIVID units -19. And of course there is a shortage of ICU beds - it is only eight - as well as shortcomings in equipment, infrastructure and sanitary equipment. So we ask you, Minister, after nine months: will the necessary recruitment of permanent staff be made at the hospital of Crete, which you had promised, promised, not to be fired and permanently carried out, for workers with flexible working relations, for full and adequate state funding to be ensured by the hospital and for urgent procedures to solve problems of infrastructure, shortages of medical equipment and for the operation of additional ICU beds with the necessary and necessary specialised permanent staff? Will it be ensured by central provision of complete suitability in animal health, with priority in personal protective equipment? And finally, will personnel movements between the public health structures of Crete stop? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u209	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Synthraki, allow me once again to correct you and your colleagues in the Communist Party of Greece when you are talking about redundancies. There are no redundancies, they are contractors many times when their contract ends and they leave the system. Of course, in recent years, we have seen for the majority of subsidiary staff, given the situation due to the coronary, prolongation of these contracts, while moving on to calls for permanent posts, so that there can be permanent solutions to the health system. We have emphasised it many times that they need permanent, but in exceptional cases you take emergency measures. We are using a tool, that of subsidiary staff, both doctors and other subsidiary staff, in order to meet needs. I do not want to talk about the gaps and shortcomings of the past. We all know what we have received and we all know what the situation is today. But despite the situation our country is experiencing with pandemic, we have not made any progress. We proceeded with action and covered part of these deficiencies, thereby ensuring the proper operation of the hospital. We proceeded with the recruitment of ancillary staff, we launched a travel plan at the same time, at the same time as "watched" the procedures and published invitations to permanent posts of regular staff, and I repeat, in the midst of a pandemic. What else were we supposed to do? Specifically for the Saint Nicholas Hospital on October 1, 2019 and today, five auxiliary doctors were hired and served, and a private doctor of pathology specialist joined the hospital's power. With regard to other ancillary staff, for the same period, sixty-four posts of different sectors and categories have been approved by the Ministry of Health, of which fifty-seven are recruits completed. The design and implementation for the proclamation of permanent regular staff shall proceed. From the notices of the AACC, we expect the appointment and placement at the General Hospital of thirteen permanent officials from the 2K notice, thirty permanent officials from the 6K notice, while for the medical staff respectively, six specialisation posts have been announced: a position of neurology, an X-ray, a pediatrician, a surgery, an anaesthetics and medical biopathology. These five positions are already in a process of filling and within the next few days the corresponding appointments will be published in the Glossary of the Official Journal. The position regarding the specificity of anesthesiology has been declared barren due to lack of interest and will be reopened. Two more bishop positions are also announced for the hospital emergency department. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speech is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Finally, as far as your reference to the IF beds and equipment is concerned, I would like to say that the already existing IF beds have been added three more, of which the two are fully operational and the third is expected to be set up soon, significant infrastructure, such as prechamber for COVID -19, negative pressure chamber, TP by carrying out building interventions and a CIVID clinic -19 capacity total of 20 beds. In addition, the supply of air cleaning machinery from infectious airborne particles was carried out, the supply of vital functions monitoring monitors for TLs and the acceptance of a respirator donation from the Region of Crete. We know, Mr Syntagakis, that these recruitments cover considerable gaps, but they do not solve problems and do not put an end to these shortcomings. We are working on and implementing a comprehensive human resources management plan so that in the next few years we can meet the needs not only of the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos, but also of all the hospitals of the state. This attempt has already begun and its results are tangible and gradually, from week to week, from month to month, they are becoming more and more visible. Finally, with regard to the financing of hospitals, personal protective equipment, health adequacy, let me say - and this has occurred during the pandemic - that there has been no shortage of personal protective equipment for the next time, we have ensured both the functioning of the necessary biomedical equipment and the upgrading of medical equipment, and we resolve daily and continuous problems in infrastructure and deficits, with a typical example of the expansion of intensive care units, a project implemented in cooperation with large donors such as the Greek Parliament, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and private donors, so that our country can reach Europe's average in number of beds in intensive treatment units in a short time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u212	Minister, I have the impression that the government and you, of course, represent the government in this ministry, live in a parallel world of your own. The reality that workers and citizens are experiencing in health is quite different. You started your position by saying that in emergencies we're taking emergency measures. It is important to see what the emergency measures are that you need to take. Is it the permanent hostage - that is - of the contractors? Isn't that a dismissal? When you have the other one in a lasting hostage, in a constant stress if he'll find a job the next day? The ones you're saying you're hiring through the two notices -2K and 6K - are all going to work? Are they going to be re-entered? They are people who have worked both four and five and six and seven years in hospitals and in other branches. They're all gonna get a job? A very large part and on various grounds - of course - that they did not pay the paradox, etc. - they will find themselves out of work, triggering what we call'social automation', working against a worker. Is that the emergency? The government, the state, is of course non-existent when workers need it and very generously as magically, when it is to give billions to business groups and the health sector, or when it is, for example, for the armaments programmes for NATO's needs. However, when we, when the people require immediate measures to meet the needs of the pandemic, means measures to protect public health, essential care for the hospitals, the permanentisation of the workers, the increase in state funding on the basis of the needs arising, the provision of personal protection, the additional IMI to meet the increased needs arising and will arise even further in the next few years. Workers are full of beautiful words and various promises. I would remind you, however, what you were telling January 2019 here in this Chamber in a relevant timely question, as I told you in my prototype. Before the pandemic, in January 2019: “In 2020 will be the year of hospitals. Our aim is to have permanent residence for staff in hospitals. The more permanent we have, the less the contractors that will fill gaps will be reduced respectively. I said that we want permanent jobs in the National Health System and not temporary solutions, such as the subsidiary medical system. And that is why we will turn the positions of subsidiary doctors into positions of permanent curators and doctors' directors into the health system." What have you done after nine months? From what you said in January 2019 - now ends September 2020 - what have you done? Absolutely nothing. After eight, nine months, and while you had all the time to shield the public health system, health centres, check or use the private health sector, provide massive tests for COVID -19. And what you have said before in the honourable Member's question, because many people, even students, who are currently leaving abroad and must be subjected to this test, are asked to pay, to put their hands in the pocket. No public hospital, no health center, no TOMY is currently conducting tests. Everything is carried out either in private diagnostics or in private doctors. Minister, I have a personal example. Please very much. I went to a public hospital, a health center, to a TOMY, and they refused to test my child, who was to leave abroad. What are you talking about? These are not disproved and cannot be hidden under the carpet, Minister. Therefore, not only is it shown that this story about supposedly reinforced and well-prepared public health system against pandemic is lies, but they come to the surface and new aspects of huge shortages in personnel, infrastructure and equipment. Otherwise, you said that you would shield the public health system and with nurses. As far as Saint Nicholas Hospital is concerned, you said enough. But don't be selective with what you're saying, because the evidence is completely different. From this month until March 2021, the two-year contracts of twenty-four auxiliary workers of various specialties are concluded. On 31 December 2020, individual contracts of twenty-six workers, cleaners, cooks and guards expire. Finally, in the Hospital of Agios Nikolaos, twenty-one employees are serving under various OAED contracts. They end their contracts. What's gonna happen? So, do you see that a very large proportion of contract workers are going to go out of work in the hospital, charging even more for their operation, so the citizens too? So what you are saying, of course, is not true. And we ask you, as we have asked in the protology, whether you are ready directly because of the emergency needs and because we are in the second phase of the pandemic to actually serve the St. Nicholas Hospital with additional medical, nursing and other personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u213	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, I spoke to you clearly and perfectly understandablely. As far as subsidiary staff and contractors are concerned, we have had to prolong contracts, as we did for specific specialities by the end of the year, as we will do for the other specialities for as long as necessary, given the situation due to the coronary pandemic. The Prime Minister himself in his speech at the Thessaloniki Exhibition said of four thousand recruitments of medical staff needed, giving priority to those who worked during the pandemic period. We have also mentioned two thousand two hundred and fifty nurses who, within September, start their specialty and the one thousand six hundred of them in intensive care units and the others in other areas of the health system, thus strengthening the human potential in the system. With regard to the four thousand OAS contractors - we have taken on a given situation - we have extended these contracts and we are working on a solution so that they do not leave the health system. By law, which was passed a few days ago, the contracts of workers in the fields of cleaning, storage and feeding were extended until 31/12-2021. And yes, we have many times, too, in the context of parliamentary control by the Step forward, and it says that we want permanent solutions to the health system. Yes, we need permanent solutions, but when we cannot have these solutions in a short time, we should use the tools we have, such as the instrument of subsidiary doctors. And we have said that we will turn supplementary doctors' positions into curators' posts, so that we can strengthen the health system with permanent intakes and with new blood, because the new blood needs the national health system. We are therefore doing our best to strengthen our health structures, as far as possible while ensuring equal access for all our fellow citizens to every necessary service in the health system. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, they will not be debated after the Minister of State and Sports, the third with number 1033/14-9-2020, a topical question for the President of the Communist Party of Greece. Manolis Syntagaki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The problems of the amateur football teams in Heraklion" and the eleventh question with number 1002/1-9-2020, a second-cycle question by MP II, Piraeus, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr.Ioannis Ragossis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "In the three crucial tests this year, the Civil Protection Policy proved to be sound and accountable. Unique government plan to falsify reality and hide truth". And now we go to the fifth with number 1024/11-9-2020 a timely question from the Second Cycle MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Syrmalenios to the Minister of Health, entitled "Milos Health Center function". The question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr President, I would ask you to limit yourself to two minutes, because we still have too many questions and we have exceeded our time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Madam President, but we must have an equilibrium with all our colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u217	You're right, but in any case, we have to pack it up. I think you understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u218	I will soon try to present my opinion and discuss the timely question. Minister, the topical question concerning the operation of the Milos Health Center was raised on the occasion of a situation that was formed 15 days ago in the Milos Health Center, where virtually no qualified doctor and mainly pathologist or general doctor was no longer in the Milos Health Center, so that the operation of the Health Center could not be carried out on a daily basis. And apart from Milos - which, as you know, is an island with rapid tourist development in recent years and population proliferation mainly during the summer season and we are still relatively well over the best period - the health centre supervises and the Regional Polyvalent Medal of Kimolos. In other words, two islands were literally found 'in the air' through this situation. There's an announcement from the health center administration. He said that in a state of non-existence of qualified doctors, the three private sector doctors on the island would be charged. And, of course, these three doctors are excellent doctors, but it is unprecedented for them to stay a health centre without a qualified doctor and for them to be called for - if you want - health solidarity private doctors to serve the public sector in the form of a qualification. I know in advance what you're going to tell me about. You'll tell me that in the summer we had two, three qualified doctors for fifteen or twenty days, but they've already left. You will tell me that there is a pathologist who has now gone for twenty days and so the problem has been solved. I'll answer you, too. These temporary solutions that the Ministry of Health continues to give along with the 2nd Health Region are solutions which in no case go hand in hand with strengthening the national health system on the islands. Because it is not possible for a doctor who has no contact with the medical history of the permanent population and even with visitors who need to visit the health centre and who have no obligation after 15 days who leave to apologize for their work, because no one has learned them and no one will know them anymore in the future. So the questions that are asked are: What design are you finally planning to strengthen in the midst of a pandemic - as we all say - the national health system and the islands - the islands are not children of a lower god - with permanent staff? And in any case - we understand - because there are time-consuming procedures, let the coverage at least be made with medical assistants qualified...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Comrade, ask the question. Don't place now. Do it in your dentistry. Ask the question, please. We've already been in four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u220	Okay, Madam President. I'm done in ten seconds. Let it be made at least one design for subsidiary doctors until they are completed - if you complete - your intention - if you have it - to have permanent recruitments. And the last: is it possible to contact private doctors in the absence of a qualified doctor in the health center? Of course, when there's nothing there, a man will go directly to the private. But is it possible to incorporate them organically into the National Health System by the logic of the order? These are unprecedented and unprecedented things, which I do not know if they serve the public-private cooperation project, but they certainly serve to weaken the national health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Symmoleni, the Ministry of Health's intentions for island regions allow me to say that they are in any case expressed by actions and not by words. Very recent is the publication of an eighty-five-year-old staff notice for doctors of various specialties, of which forty-eight concerned health structures deficiencies and gaps in islands, shortcomings and gaps that we inherited from your own government. The design of the recruitment of permanent posts of doctors and nurses and other staff is fully linked to both the integrated plan of changes in primary health care and the legislative initiative that we are preparing and which concerns providing incentives for remote islands and continental areas. It is a package of actions and incentives aimed at: Firstly, reducing the sense of scientific and professional depreciation experienced by doctors. Secondly, the improvement of the terms and conditions of their professional development. Third, financial benefits. Fourthly, the improvement of living conditions in these regions. And fifthly, to improve human resources education in the health system. The situation on our islands is a given one. You know it very well, because you also managed it as a government. There is currently no possibility for all doctors' specialties to serve in every health center on every island. You have dealt with it yourself and you have done absolutely nothing to solve it and you are coming here today and criticising us. The ways in which we are dealing with the situation are summarised as follows. Firstly, approval for the recruitment of ancillary staff. Obviously, in order for there to be no subsidiary staff there, there would be no doctor on the list to meet these needs. Proclamation of permanent staff and staff movements. Let me remind you that in the Milos Health Center they are serving on a permanent basis a general doctor and two dentists, the coverage of health needs by other medical specialties is implemented by doctors who are moving with a specific plan and planning the administration of the Second Health Region and today that we are talking on the island of Milos has moved a pediatrician who will remain for a certain period of time. The same is true of other medical specialties at regular intervals. Let me remind you that this year, specific medical movements, such as a doctor in general medicine, a TLP director, a doctor in chest - heart surgery, a doctor in orthopaedics, a physician in general medicine and a doctor in cardiology, have taken place. So the reality is quite different from the one you described to us, which let me repeat that you know it firsthand, you experienced it more than four and a half years, that is, as long as you were government. I'd be very grateful if you didn't make the unscrupulous and don't try to create the wrong impressions. Citizens and visitors to Milos are covered in health. Clearly, there are problems and malfunctions, which we will not let go through for four and a half years and have not solved. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor. Try to keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Undersecretary, you have spoken of gaps, as well as gaps that you inherited from the SYRIZA government. I would like to say to you that we have done about eighteen thousand recruitments in these four and a half years and have also announced four and a half thousand recruitments permanently, which you have not made progress since you took over. In any case, for the islands in general, and in particular for the Cyclades, I can only tell you that the General Hospital of Syros, which is a prefecture hospital, was strengthened by the General Hospital of Naxos with medical and nursing staff and became the kidney unit. The Hospital of Santorini was inaugurated, which really serves so many thousands of people and incidents, whether local or visitors. The basis for EKAV aerospace facilities in Syros was established and, despite the shortcomings still existing today, the health centres of Tinos, Paros, Amorgos, Ios and a number of other health centres were strengthened. In the western Cyclades, and among them in Milos, there has indeed been no substantial aid, because the permanent staff notices that have been made did not give rise to them, as they have not spent years. But we did. measures and legislation, which seems to be not enough after all, for agricultural doctors EUR 400 per month, as you know, in the barren and remote regions, plus EUR 450 per month in the region, as well as in the region. We also legislated the possibility of financing, housing and feeding doctors and the rest of the staff from local government I and II grades. It is also very important that after five years a doctor who serves in remote areas may move. These are concrete incentives that we have received at the time. Retrospectively and in fact, they are not enough. There must be a new package of incentives. We have also worked out a series of such incentives, economic, scientific and administrative, and we are about to bring them into legislative work. But this cannot continue. and it cannot go on with rotation by occasional doctors, which, of course, for fifteen days, may help, a pediatrician or a general doctor, but they are not solutions when we really want to be a pandemic, and since we all realised that the pillar, the central body of public health support, is the national health system. So that is what we also demand and claim from your own government and demands that the entire Greek people really be recruited permanently by medical, nursing and other personnel so that the National Health System can be raised and faced with all these difficulties that the country and the whole planet are going through today. I would therefore like to tell you that you must respond specifically and not continue with the logic of occasional recruitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Symphony, I have said that in previous times, I have said that the health system really needs permanent solutions and that we need to work in this direction. All the governments of the past have given various incentives and I think this is a time and it is an opportunity for all the political forces of the Greek Parliament to support the initiative which we are preparing with a wide package of incentives, which we will give so that we can permanently meet the needs of these islands and do not have to move medical personnel from other structures at regular intervals. It is of course important that everyone, the Ministry of Health, the healthcare region, and the health workers, should fight to meet the needs of all citizens in all the islands, in the barren regions, in the remote regions and, of course, in all the regions, in all the solutions which, as I have said before, will give a lasting solution to the problems of the inhabitants of these regions. So here we are. We will soon be able to discuss the proposals that we have completed, so that we can resolve this chronic issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too, Minister. The State Secretary, Mr. Kontozamanis, will answer the next timely question. It is the twelfth under number 1011/7-9-2-2020 and is the twelfth in the second cycle of the Member of the Boeotian Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health on the subject: "In the air the function of the pathological section of the General Hospital of Thebes". Here you go, Mr. Mulkiotis. You have two minutes. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, today the questions really focus on the shortages of many hospitals, on major deficiencies. I will focus not on all the shortcomings at the Hospital of Thebes, but especially on the pathological department, where there is a very serious problem of operation. You know that very well. There is a major issue. Minister, you know they're five organic positions in pathology. At the moment, they have been covered - supposedly - four and the fifth is under promised notice. However, one of these four organic posts is being moved to another hospital without any consent from any body. For the other, who had also moved to another hospital unit, fortunately there was mobilisation of institutions in early September and there was as a result of the miracle lifting the movement and returning to the hospital. The other two doctors with organic positions are absent with justified sick leave. This, however, resulted in a huge problem in the pathological clinic. Existing staff, in order to meet their obligations, are making superhuman efforts, making additional on-calls and without many times making use of rest after on-calls, but without even using normal leave, in order to meet the needs of the hospital unit. You know, Minister, that the situation in each pathological department is very important. With these data, the pathological department of the Hospital of Thebes is essentially non-functional. The absence of a pathologist at any time of operation of the hospital poses serious risks both for the safety of the citizens, but also for the visitors of the county and anyone who wants to resort to the hospital for a matter. Therefore, the specificity of pathology is not only as such for pathology, but is critical and useful for other medical specialities as well. So this, Minister, raises questions on which we ask you: First, what action will you take in order to address the present deficiencies due to the existing and emerging gaps in the pathological clinic to ensure the smooth functioning of the pathological department and to meet the region's pathological needs? Do you, in any case, intend to proceed with the immediate opening of this special pathologist's post, but also to withdraw and withdraw, in the end, the movement which has been made without the opinion of the ministers, the doctor in another hospital, in order to come to the department that serves and has an organic position? Whether you remove the movement or leave this space empty and be declared so that there is a functionality. There can be no such data and such situations and there can be no definitive and complete these days - the medical association sent you a specific document - to operate the medical clinic. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mulkiotis, and the organic unit of Thebes needs support - no one denies it - and we are working intensively in this direction. We have also met with actors in the area, with the mayor, who have raised the matter, and with the hospital doctors. We are working with the health region and administration in order to solve the problems. You know, too, that the Pathological Clinic of the General Hospital of Thebes operated without any particular problems until about a month ago, directed with four permanent, one subsidiary and two qualified doctors. It worked with a fullness of 60%, with eighteen beds covered in a total of thirty. The problems arose, in fact, when completely unpredictable and within three weeks the strength of the doctors was reduced by four doctors in one because two were seriously ill, and one doctor resigned to accept a place in another hospital. In order to remedy these deficiencies, the hospital administration and administration of the 5th Health Region rapidly returned to a doctor of pathology, who was serving by moving to the General Hospital of Livadia and moving a curator of general medicine from Aliartos Health Center. Also, the administration of the 5th Health Region implements a specific travel programme on a monthly basis, according to which general and rural doctors from Red Health and Aliartos Health Centres cover circularly part of the newspapers. These are the actions to cover this sudden development, which we have taken immediately, to ensure that Thebes Hospital continues to work smoothly. We understand, of course, the issue and there is planning to fill empty organic posts, which means permanent recruitment. Also, the notice you mentioned about the location of internal pathology has been in the air since today and tomorrow in the hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u232	I start by saying it's the call tomorrow in the air. It's a big deal. The topical question has taken place in one way. Minister, I will not agree that the pathological clinic was complete. They weren't four permanent. Four permanent, indeed, are provided for in the establishment plan. The two were moving. So it was two. The two were moving and fortunately mobilised and a move was made in September. The other one's still on the move. Mr. Secretary, why don't you take this procedure? Why don't you tell the doctor who's moved or gone back or leave the organic position, go do another job, respected in all, but this organic position he has to leave it and publish it as well? That's the only way we're gonna get ahead of it. The hospital won't work any other way. Mr. Undersecretary, you said for a general doctor. It's primary health. Can this process continue? We're dealing with a situation here on a case-by-case basis. Actually, there's a matter. With general doctors, we can't cover a pathological clinic that needs a pathologist. So you have the responsibility as a Ministry immediately to find a solution. I will testify for the minutes, Minister, the document notified to you by the Thebes Medical Association, which directly puts the responsibility in the 5th Ministry of Health. It says the document that LAG is inadequate because since the end of 2019 there are problems at Thevas Hospital and has done absolutely nothing. Actually, he hasn't done anything at all. So says the medical club, the president of the medical club, who came and met you and, indeed, as you said - but also from what he said orally - you had a very good cooperation. [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unfortunately, however, we have had no follow-up to this process and we have reached the point that the pathological clinic is actually closing, that it cannot work. And what do we say? The general will be here. Yes, but it's for primary health, it's not a doctor who can serve the pathological clinic, which needs staffing, which needs the problem, the issue. It can't be done. Don't say and you shouldn't say - in good faith I say it and I know you're very cooperative - that it can't be done. We cannot say that the posts and gaps are covered. So organic positions are empty. Organic position is held by the moving doctor, who doesn't leave her. Make a decision, political decision. The 5th Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot see these through and make no energy and no move. And, of course, he doesn't answer the phone sometimes the MPs get. We can't find out what they're doing. Operations in a hospital are related to all factors and we all want to contribute. The Hospital of Thebes is very specific, it has very specific reasons to exist as it is and operates for very specific reasons and conditions. It's prisons, it's the various structures, it's the new highway, it's a lot of the issues it covers, a thousand two, and there can't be any pathologists and other clinics. I'll come back with another question about the other clinics. But the pathological issue is the major for us. I now ask, Minister, this: will the doctor, who has moved to leave his post, leave him empty and be able to proclaim it and move forward? Because we cannot - I repeat - and it is not our honour to have general doctors and cover pathologist positions. That's not how pathological clinics work. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u233	Thank you for keeping your time, Mr. President. Come on, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Mulkiotis, I fully share your concerns and I am pleased that you are aware of the meeting I had with institutions and doctors from the county and the hospital in order to resolve these issues. I am sure that in the case of the pathological clinic we moved immediately and as I explained to you in my prototype, we have covered the shortcomings that exist. Of course, there is planning to cover soon the gaps that have been created. There are other solutions beyond what you have referred to, that is to say, tell the doctor 'go out of here to free your position'. There are other solutions, such as the conversions of positions, which we are working on, in order to provide a direct solution to the problem that has arisen. We want Thebe Hospital - yes, it is at a key point - to be productive, to be operational and we will reinforce it in every way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Now we are going to the first with number 6606/19-5-2020 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) kouriakou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct need to create a primary health structure in the Municipality of Pallini". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u236	Minister, I would like to point out by starting that this question now being discussed as timely had been tabled in writing for four months, on 19 May 2020, but we did not receive an answer. There is another question that awaits six months, since 27 March 2020, on the subject: “The recruitment of doctors to public health structures in eastern Attica”. You know, if you answer, you don't do us a favor. You are responding to our fellow citizens, in the case of Eastern Attica, which would be a good thing not to deceive them. The issue, therefore, is: “Direct need to create a primary health structure in the Municipality of Pallini. Minister, the battle to deal with the coronary pandemic and the circumstances created test the National Health System. Here too, the result will be judged. In these circumstances, primary health care can be converted into a powerful tool for meeting needs due to the coronary pandemic, restraining mass attendance to hospitals. Primary health structures, health centres, regional hospitals can contribute. The Municipality of Pallini, the municipality of the Region of Attica, resulting from the concentration of the Municipalities of Pallini, Geraka and the Community of Anthousas, now records a population of fifty-four thousand five hundred inhabitants. It is the second largest municipality in eastern Attica. There is no primary health care structure in the Municipality of Pallini. All over the municipality, there are two contracted family doctors of EEAY. IKA's medical services aren't working. They had operated since 2007 and ceased to operate in 2013. This, together with the hospital shortage in eastern Attica, makes it difficult to cover and provide effective protection for the inhabitants of the Municipality of Pallini. Recently, the municipal council took a unanimous decision on the necessity of creating and operating a primary health care structure. The municipality party "We, our city" launched a campaign to collect signatures, which is under way. And based on all this, the Minister asks: What is your plan to create primary health care in the Municipality of Pallini? In a letter from the municipality, you replied that it is possible to do so. I'll submit it to the Minutes. When's this health center going to be? How do you intend to meet the people’s needs for primary health care services in the second largest municipality in eastern Attica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Skouroliakos, I have to say that it is very reasonable to ask questions about primary health care at municipal level, and specifically in your question about the Municipality of Pallini. I will agree with you that the proper functioning of primary health care structures can - and must - halt citizens' mass entry to hospitals. We don't have to discover the wheel. This is done in all modern states. This is what we will do with the plan, which we are preparing, dismantling and upgrading all services at secondary health care level with an integrated primary health care system, which will emphasise prevention, public health and primary services, so that it is fully in line with the new trend at global level, as set out by the World Health Organisation. It is the so-called “New Public Health”, “New Public Health”, where public health services meet primary health care, and so we have an overall grid of health services at primary care level that really dismantles secondary health care. These integrated services will be provided through a network. The core of this network will be the health centers, which will be operationally integrated into all primary health care structures. We give weight and act as a functional link to social care services, such as "Help at Home". We are redefining and strengthening home care. We act as a necessary and necessary tool for the individual electronic health file, the full operation of which is an essential condition for an integrated primary health care system. In any case, the change in primary health care should ensure that citizens have free and uninterrupted access to these services. In this context, the network of geographical spreading and spreading of these units should also see the distribution of health centres and structures across the territory. It makes sense, yes, indeed, to talk about the existence and functioning of a strong health centre per municipality that will provide all these integrated services. So, first of all, I will agree with you. A large municipality, such as that of Pallene, in the context of the new planning and changes in primary health care may have within the limits of the health centre. Wait a minute, see our design. I would remind you, however, that today the Municipality of Pallini is covered by the Centre for the Health of Spata, whose responsibility is for the medicine of Pallini, Geraka and Anthousas. The Spata Health Center operates daily on a 24-hour basis with an enhanced on-site on Saturday and Sunday. It works with all the above medical establishments which have a rolling function. Every day there are regular medical treatments of many specialties, where our fellow citizens are served on the seven-day 24-hour operation for emergency situations, as well as testing for suspected coronary cases, as well as taking a sample. In addition to this, other important services are provided for residents, such as vaccination, health care, physiotherapy and so on. Finally, I repeat, in any case changes to primary health care will be made. We are working on a concrete plan of reforms and changes. Soon, we will bring it to the House and vote. Through this we seek the better and more rational distribution of these structures, so that we can cover all the population geographically in need of primary health care services. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you have not responded, you have not committed yourself, you have not told us anything. You said nice words. You've done a nice report. This is a feature of your government. For over a year now he's been telling us what will happen, what he'll do, what he'd want to do. He's telling us nice reports, but we don't see light. And you, then, don't light us up. Unfortunately, Minister, the public health system does not go through its happier period. Your government was forced to discover it in the midst of a pandemic and relied on it. He took advantage of it, but without strengthening it. It's huge in our hospitals, while thousands of doctors and nurses are ready to offer their services, as long as you hire them. You spent a summer waiting for the new wave of the coronary, without seriously preparing our hospitals. There's been a mess of communication. The Municipality of Pallini is the portal of the Mediterranean, Minister, with great access from all of the basin. At the same time, according to the latest census, as I said, it is one of the fastest growing municipalities in Attica. However, it is well known that the public health data in Eastern Attica are also available. In an area with the largest airport in the country, with workers, millions of passengers, two ports, industrial areas, etc. There is no general public hospital. The agreement made by the government of SYRIZA with the Republic of Cyprus to finance the construction of a hospital in eastern Attica, you leave it almost a year and a half now inactive. However, it is well known that the data in Eastern Attica in the field of public health are also available. Report the Spatial Health Center. Tell your partners, who gave you this evidence, to be a little more careful. Because at the Spata Health Centre, Minister, for example, microbiological exercises only the basic tests, while in Markopoulos there is no sterilisation furnace. At least they're the contracted doctors with the EEAS. I told you. So as far as Pallini, Gerakas and Anthusa are concerned, the fact of the incomplete functioning of nearby health centres - because the function is incomplete - we are talking about health centres that we have received with two doctors, and we have delivered them with thirty-two doctors, such as the Kalybia Health Centre and others - together with the lack of hospitals in eastern Attica, has the effect of experience of our fellow citizens leaving the government. We said the city council is asking. The Municipal Party "We, our city" holds a referendum that brings together all residents. We must also say that at the moment in the health sector there are five thousand less doctors and nurses than those who served in 2019 on SYRIZA. Minister, the government and the Ministry of Health announcements that there is a plan for primary health care stay at the level of the announcements, as I have told you. You were confined to personnel movements without any new intake to enhance primary health care. No permanent intake has been made. No new primary health structure has been done to meet the needs that have been created in the meantime. It is vital even today that the measures to be taken in the face of this new pandemic round should be taken. The Municipality of Pallini, the inhabitants of Pallini, Geraka, Anthusa, but also the passers, all those gathered in this area are waiting immediately - yesterday, Minister! - the establishment of a health centre in the second largest municipality in the eastern Attica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Skourico, I am amazed at the fact that you referred to the health system and its situation in the pandemic, a health system which has responded with sufficient resources to the needs of the region, a health system which we have strengthened and strengthened. You referred to primary health care, which primary health care played a role during the pandemic and will then play a role. I told you that we are preparing a modern plan for primary health care based on the logic of new public health, where public health meets primary health care services and new services are being created for citizens in order to solve problems at primary health care level. You talked about a hospital. The money that the Cypriot government intends to donate is not enough to become a hospital. But what do we want? Do we want a hospital located in every municipality of the country? There is also planning for new hospitals and for modernising existing ones. And Pallini - let me say - and the wider region is at a privileged point, because through the Attica Road, the Mediterranean Avenue in a very short time there is access to the largest hospitals in Attica. It is therefore no time to plunder and say: "Build a hospital". We need a plan, we need to keep the data in mind, and if we need to be a hospital, we need to. As far as the Pallini Health Centre is concerned, I have told you from the outset that it is reasonable to have a health centre per municipality, which is happening today in many cases. So I don't think there's any reason why it won't apply in the case of the Municipality of Pallini. We are considering it in the context of the changes we are preparing for primary health care. You haven't been concerned about four and a half years when you were government and you are coming now and you tell us that and I'm telling you that we're looking into it. So wait for us to see our plan, and here we are to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the second question with number 7636-23-6-2020 on the cycle of petitions and questions by MP B3 South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafa to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'The upgrading of the Iliopolis Health Centre'. The question will also be answered by Mr Kontozamanis, State Secretary for Health. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we are asking this specific question about the Elioupolis Health Centre and please for specific, if possible, answers so that we can also inform the health centre's stakeholders, which we have visited repeatedly in recent years. This question is being asked in the context of a time phase, which has somehow highlighted the great importance, the irreplaceable role of public health in the pandemic, etc. and, in particular, public primary health care. The Ilioupoli Health Center is a good example of how a local health center can be upgraded, of course, to become a reference point for a wider area on health issues, such as the South Sector of the Second Athens Region, which will also contribute to the decongestion of public hospitals, but will also contribute to the treatment of all of the great populace of the pandemic in our country. It could also be upgraded by the Ilioupoli Health Centre to be a newspaper center, in so far as the unique daily center of Attica, Athens, Lecanopedi, Alexandra Health Center is obviously insufficient to cover such a large region. Unfortunately, however, the Ilioupoli Health Center cannot play this role, primarily because of the great lack of medical and nursing staff. Just think that 2009 served a hundred and eight doctors in 2013, seventy-eight, today only twenty-six and it takes two months to make an appointment. What I'm saying is independent of the great appreciation we have at work, of the effort that the workers of all specialists are doing at the health centre. So our position is precisely to strengthen it, as I have said before, so that it can be a model health centre and I can assure you that the Municipality of Iliopolis has made concrete proposals and dealt with the issue, in cooperation with the head of the health service of the health centre. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u245	I thank you, Mr Colleague, for being time-consistent. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Balafa, I referred to the previous question in the primary health care. Allow me, without party bumpers, but by speaking as a person who is very well aware of the health sector, to say that those efforts that have been made in recent years have not had any substantial effect or have remained incomplete. I remember the period 2012 to 2014 when I was commander in the First Health Region of Athens and then Secretary General at the Ministry of Health, reform by creating the primary national health network and integrating the IKA structures into the National Health System, as well as the subsequent development on your days by creating new structures. All of this is lessons and they oblige us not to break down, but to build by holding on what is positive, substantial, functional and productive we have found and, at the same time, knowing the problems, to provide the appropriate solutions with real reform actions and areas. I said this before that we have a specific strategy in the field of primary health care. The big problem, Mr Balafa, of the staff shortages we have been called upon to manage is not easily solved, because in addition to the gaps that exist, we have continuous departures due to pensions mainly of medical staff. And this big problem touches the structures of primary health care. Recruitment of subsidiary, medical, nursing and other staff is important. They have nowadays been strengthened by health centres, but they are not the permanent solutions that we want to provide. The Iliopolis Health Centre, like many other primary health care units, does indeed need support with recruitment of permanent staff and I assure you that we will proceed with these recruitments. In particular, for the Iliopolis Health Centre, let me say that it is indeed a centre that with appropriate additions can work better, thus covering more medical specialities. That is why we went on recruiting two subsidiary doctors in the specificity of pathology and pneumonology. Twenty-four-four hours is something that concerns us. We want it and we are looking into it. I cannot give you a concrete answer at the moment, because we are looking at the whole system of newspaper coverage and the twenty-four-fourth operation of primary health care structures in Attica and Athens. In a short time we will be able to answer that. And let us not forget that in the regional section of the Athens Central Sector there are already 24-hour centres for Alexandra and Vyron health and we believe that to a large extent the wider needs of the region are met. So give us some time. In no case do we see it negative, but in conjunction with the launching of our plan for permanent recruitment of staff and the incentives we will give, we will be ready to present a comprehensive plan that will strengthen the health centres in the region and the Iliopolis Health Centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u248	Minister, I have three comments to make. First of all, what I'm going to say is they don't have a personal edge. They are critical of government policy in the field of health, to be clear. Secondly, from what you have said to us - you have rather reiterated in my topical question - we are waiting for your planning in order to implement a plan for primary health care as well. 'Soon', you said 'will' and so on. When, how many, who are under discussion. And you know what surprises me? I'm telling you, honestly. It seems to me that you are running 15 months, with health difficulties, with health needs, which would require a speeding up of planning and programme implementation. You don't have yet, you probably didn't even have an election plan for primary health care. If you had, didn't you update him this time to know him, too? Fifteen months have passed. Now you're planning and planning? Okay. We will wait for this design, but know that it is worth wondering that you are progressing without any plans, as you yourself say, without having either election or post-election of any kind of design and programming to "light" us and the stakeholders. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u250	Mr Balafa, you are obviously overlooking the fact that we are managing a major crisis, namely the health system and the country from March onwards. Yeah, there's a plan. At the same time, we prepared what we want to do. In fact, the pandemic period has enabled us to launch solutions and introduce new services into the health system at primary level. We have taken examples of the operation of the primary health system during the pandemic period. In a short time we have made major changes throughout the whole health system in order to manage this pandemic. We have gained more knowledge and experience and, yes, we are able in this second round of pandemic to be able to make maximum use of the structures of primary health care, but we saw it in the first period how primary health care worked and helped not to have the great attendance of our fellow citizens to hospitals. So there's a plan. You're just being patient. You'll see. However, do not forget that we are managing a major crisis and in this crisis primary health care has already played an important role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too, Minister. Let's go to the thirteenth number 986/28-8-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious discrimination against seropositive people who lack the necessary examinations." The Secretary of State for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Madam President. Undersecretary, HIV institutions need regular tests to monitor the viral load in their blood and modify their treatment in order not to be ill. According to the Association of Serious Greece "Thematic Voice", the university workshops of the four reference centres of the country are permanently facing major shortages of reagents. Therefore, thousands of seropositives have not demonstrated the effectiveness of their antiretroviral therapy and doctors are forced to start treatments in patients without prior testing. This has a huge impact on the health of patients, Minister, as you know. Furthermore, in accordance with the EAFRD guidelines, in order to confirm a new HIV diagnosis and to record it in the patient registers of the body, which are also very important for patients to have access to a number of public system insurance protection services, the ELISA and the ‘WESTERN BLOT’ confirmatory examination should have been preceded by the ‘ELISA’ examination. However, these centres, such as the 'CHIMAP', generally remain without reagents because of the untimely renewal of the financing contract. The Minister went on to renew the contract, but this renewal brings us four thousand four hundred samples, and we need thirty thousand samples, Secretary. No longer is there any examination carried out unless the doctors put the word "urgent" up. They only get selective. The situation has reached the unpredictable. We ask you to commit to what timetable you will proceed to the immediate restoration of all patients' access to viral load measurement and genotypic resistance under the guidelines, as signed in the abovementioned convention. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Madam President, to finish the questions. Do you know why the call for expressions of interest to diagnostic laboratories for the negotiation by the EEAS has not been completed? Is there an economic study and a comparison of the cost of alternative examination options? And, finally, how do you plan to resolve the bureaucratic obstacles of all the stakeholders that make it difficult to access diagnostic tests for citizens and to monitor fully all patients' treatment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u253	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u254	Madam President, Mr Arsenis, restoring the functioning of specialised laboratories, reference centres and HIV AIDS has been one of the first priorities of the Ministry of Health's political leadership. It is certain that there must be an assessment of the patient's condition for controlling their viral load so that they can join the appropriate treatment for them. For us it is a major issue to resolve this problem as quickly as possible and no other valuable time should be wasted for people, our fellow people seeking treatment. For this reason, the EGE signed programme cooperation contracts in December 2019 without delays in the process. Thus, the needs of the seropositive individuals for viral load and genotypic testing were served without time. In addition, an advance payment was made to laboratories carrying out a large number of monitoring tests in order to proceed to competitive procedures, supplies of reagents and consumables. As regards the number of samples that have been pending examination since 2015, which related to the laboratory monitoring of HIV positive individuals, viral load measurement and genotypic resistance to antiretroviral therapy, it is worth noting that the diagnostic value for individual health status and response to treatment, antiretroviral therapy, has only recently been taken. It is therefore recommended that the examinations be carried out as a priority in recent biological samples, as well as at the beginning of treatment. The EMCDDA is in constant contact with the HIV- AIDS reference and control laboratories, where confirmatory tests for HIV infection are carried out, as well as with hospital infection units and external medical services, in order to ensure the interconnection and early initiation of antiretroviral therapy. As regards the measurement of HIV-1 viral load and the control of genotypic resistance to antiretroviral therapy, these tests are not a prerequisite for the dispatch of an epidemiological bulletin as laboratory tests follow the confirmation. I would remind you that there are other reference centres which serve HIV-positive patients and point to this point that all the HIV-related tests are carried out free of charge in all individuals, regardless of the existence of insurance coverage. Therefore, there is no need to compensate the monitoring examinations by the ERCY and confidentiality is always respected. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. In addition, with regard to the practice you mentioned regarding the characterisation of the tests as urgent to measure the viral load and what criteria may have been set, I would mention that doctors contact the laboratory directly for these incidents in order to be served immediately. And with regard to the timing of the examinations, we know that the special accounts of universities manage the funding of workshops and are responsible for the implementation of the programme contracts by supplying reagents and consumables up to and including competitive procedures, in accordance with existing legislation. Therefore, EGE as the competent body of the Ministry of Health to monitor the progress of HIV AIDS infection in Greece continues to defend the health of HIV-positive individuals and protect public health by reviewing individuals free of charge and ensuring the uninterrupted administration of antiretroviral therapy when diagnosed. And the EGE, in cooperation with all the stakeholders, is facing problems that arise in order for the examination to take place indiscriminately, in accordance with the guidelines and - to repeat once again - completely free of charge. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, it would be a great pleasure to agree with you, but unfortunately, your data is disgusting. We had a long time ago the complaint of the doctor - a pulmonary, Chryssa Botsi, which says "we at the Congress Hospital as soon as we meet" - is a date for diagnosis and prescribing to someone who has just found HIV positive - "it's for the end of December. So we say to a man now diagnosed that after four months he will know what his condition is and whether he can start his medications." It's quite a different situation than the one you described. The same point - and it has probably been pointed out by the 'Thematic Voice' - is that we have had a 12% reduction in new HIV diagnoses, we have to consider whether this is due to a reduction in the institutions, the new bodies or to a reduction in the examinations, the diagnoses. And the "Thematic Voice" called on the EGE's administration to guarantee the immediate restoration of patient access to confirmatory control, precisely to know where we are. I would also like to point out another reasonable request from the 'Thematic Voice', the immediate signature of the ministerial decision to introduce anonymous electronic prescription of medicines and examinations for the HIV virus announced by the Minister during a special conference at the beginning of December last year, which has so far not progressed. We really would like you to tell us how - on the basis of our own data - these four thousand four hundred tests will be able to meet the needs for thirty thousand equivalents that should be based on scientific data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, let me say that, because I have been in the health sector for years and I have been following this sector for the management of HIV-infected patients, for the management of these patients and for the administration of treatment, I believe that it is, in fact, an example to be imitated in health and it has worked since the beginning of the 1980s - if I remember correctly - that this infection occurred not in our country but also worldwide. We can use only examples to be imitated for the rest of the health sector, for example the patient register. I believe that the example you mentioned in a specific hospital is an isolated case and should not spoil the overall picture of the whole issue. Indeed, there have been problems in recent years. It is true that no special effort had been made over the past few years by the previous government - let me say - with proof that the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health has arrived to admit that the problems that many had mentioned in the 'Thematic Voice' were a reality and that the children of the club were right when they were talking about these issues. Repeat, no exams were covered in 2018 and 2019, which shows how great the previous government's interest in the problem we discussed was. We have therefore found a certain situation, we have covered a great deal of ground. We know what we have to do, how we do it and we do it. All services have already been activated in order to proceed with the procedures and in the next period to be sure that the situation will be completely normalised. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, too, Minister. Now let's go to the last question to which the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Kontozamanis will answer, in the fourth with number 7066/329/3-6-2020, an up-to-date question about the cycle of petitions and questions by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Special Center for Contributing Congenital Heart Diseases to Children of the Children's Hospital "Agia Sophia" and the incidents that have been intersected by the hospital in the corresponding section of the "Cardiocratic Center". Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Madam President. It all starts, Minister, in 2011, when the commander of the "Aghia Sophia" Children’s Hospital in substance suspends the operation of the heart surgery unit, the Special Center for the Response of Congenital Heart Diseases in Children, with the official justification for upgrading it. The same year, we have the increase in hospitals paid by the insurance funds for child-patient surgery in private clinics. Also, the administration of "Agia Sophia" begins to refer the incidents to the "National" at the cost of the insurance funds a little over 20,000 euros, as the unit at "Children" was closed. It is a very great story that we have tabled to the question. You also had shut down the unit due to COVID - 19 recently, which was reopened. There have now been one-day interventions a week, but only twelve interventions have been carried out since the technical in vitro circulation, which has been the only one in the centre for eighteen years now. They will now open the surgery for two days. However, the point is that there is still a fear that the coronary intensive therapy unit will be reintroduced. The subsidiary doctors of the unit have left other hospitals or other clinics of the same hospital. And that's why there's an immediate need for adequate coverage of the heart surgery unit, when the appointed doctors leave, so that the operation and all personnel of the other hospital IDs don't depend. And it is necessary to establish the cardio-surgery intensive unit as an autonomous part of the hospital, with permanent doctors, as well as the recruitment and training of a second technical in vitro traffic. That is self-evident, Minister. I will not repeat the questions in the absence of time, you have them in front of you, as well as the documents I expect you to submit to the House, otherwise, if necessary, I will repeat them in second language. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arsenis, I am well aware of this issue of the operation of the clinic, because there is - let me say - an institutional memory. I was also commander of the 1st Health Region, when there were various problems in this centre and then Secretary-General and yet - you see, after so long - we are trying to find solutions. I think you're overcoming yourself when you're being maliciously critical of the administration of the Children's Hospital. I don't think there's any commander or there was a commander in a hospital that was taking steps to trouble young children. Any decisions taken and taken aim primarily at protecting our little friends. It is also unpleasant how you place yourself completely negatively against the "Cardiocratic Center Association". Your reply has also been given by the Director-General of the "Onasisios" by letter I submit in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let me say that I do not want to play the role of the defender of anyone. What I can and I must do from my place is give answers to what you say about the functioning of the heart surgery clinic of the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital and the time we're going through. So let me remind you that we have transformed the function of the heart surgery intensive child care unit of the General Hospital "Agia Sophia" into an intensive COVID-19 treatment unit exclusively for children as part of the emergency needs of the pandemic. What were we supposed to do? If there was a case in kids, shouldn't we have an intensive treatment unit? This conversion took place within a specific management plan of the incidents, as determined by the scientific doctors responsible - the child - surgeons of the two hospitals, the "Agia Sophia" and the "Onasea". According to this plan, all the emergency paedophile surgery - we left no emergency without managing - incidents were dealt with directly by the "Onceau" as well as regulars, which would be examined by a group of doctors, assessing, on a case-by-case basis, what they were using for immediate intervention. All the above events referred to by the "Saint Sophia" at the "Onceso" were dealt with without any financial burden, for both the insured and the uninsured citizens - parents of these children. With regard to the waiting lists, it is unacceptable and critical practice to recycle false news. And that happens when you talk about waiting list, implying that they are not treated in time for children with serious heart problems. This, of course, never happened, it is not happening and it is not going to happen. I have explained that all cases are evaluated by the relevant paediatric cardioclasts and specific programming is made depending on the severity of their condition. I would also like to remind you that the unit's operation was suspended again and the incidents were referred to the "Oonesio", when a few months ago, and before the coronary, the clinic was renovated, due to the great donation of the OPCW. Today we are talking about the children's heart surgery clinic of the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital works normally by fully serving the needs of the children. I'm not going to go into any detail, I'm just going to testify to the hospital's records that certify this function. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Our aim is to reassure once again that we will leave no uncovered child with heart problems. We are here to provide high quality health services to our small fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, I'm not going to say that you've overcome yourself, because that's foreseeable. However, I will be clear. It looks like all the management you've been running, as well as the fact that you've been blocking units, just like you recently in Kalamata, where you booked the Cardiological Hospital of Kalamata to make it a CIVID -19 clinic. The essence and the heart of the management of COVID -19, that is, of you is that instead of investing in health, you go and "cut" units on which people's lives depend. And you do this to benefit the 'clients' because you do not want a strong public health, but you want the private sector. It is incomprehensible what you are saying that you are sending them to the 'Government'. Tell me a hospital in the world that has a heart surgery center for children outside the children's hospital, as if in the heart surgery center, nothing else can happen! What kind of children's specialties are faced with the rest of the "Greek" issues? It is shameful to support this. As far as the Union is concerned, I would like to tell you that I have some questions. However, you have not submitted the documents I have asked you to do. It is your duty to deposit all documents when you come to plenary. You only brought one document. We expect the rest, unless you do not respect this Parliament at all. So let's go to the League. If it is financed through public money, why does it not publish verifiable patient statistics, types of interventions and success rates, percentages of public insured and private insured persons? Why doesn't he publish the fees for medical operations for private insured persons? Why is it that government employees, children, do not have access to the "October" unless the Children's Hospital sends them? Why not publish the balance sheet of the "October" as much as it does? I want specific answers, Minister, and not ashes in the eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u266	Mr Arseni, I'm sorry to say this, but you're ignorant of the matter. In fact, I would like to tell you that we are at your disposal to give you more information, but we should also inform you. I repeat that I have had the luck of managing this case for many years and of knowing very well what is happening with this whole story. I will also tell you about the 'Liberation' to which you have referred. Yes, it is an institution funded by the Greek state. He has a child-surgery clinic and meets all the requirements to conduct such operations there and to treat young children in safe conditions at the end of the interventions. I think that we are not only wronged by the "One" and the workers in it, but overall by the National Health System, because the "One" joins forces with the National Health System, it is part of the National Health System and it meets the needs of the National Health System not only in the case of the paedophile-surgery clinic but also in the case of other serious heart surgery, as was done in the pandemic period. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. And now we are going to the last question on the agenda, which is the eighth under number 988/28-8-2020, a topical question for the Second Cycle of the Congress of the Radical Left, Alexandros - Christou Auslonitis, on the subject: "Towers in Corfu that give rise to questions". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I was expecting Mr Hardalia, who is also the Minister responsible for this matter, but he was kind enough to call me today to tell me that he is unable to come because of the increased obligations. That is something that I consider reasonable, but I do not think that this timely question is going away with your responsibility too, given that the questions I ask through it are related to the anti-crime policy that you exercise, if I am not mistaken. The purpose of my question was the big questions that were raised in the Corfiot population, perhaps throughout Greece, of the numerous fires that occurred in a very short period of time, especially in the KITTs of Corfu Region, as in the HYTAs, following the submission of my timely question, Lefkada and Kefalonia. At the same time, I think two, three days earlier there was a fire in the Desert. In other words, we are talking about two contagious issues in the area of Corfu. We are talking about Templelon, where HYTA operates, which led us to these situations because we became world-famous in a negative way, and about the reservoir who came before the Prime Minister of Greece a few days before and inaugurated the investment. In fact, I participated in a demonstration that day. Mrs Sakova, the President-in-Office of the Council, who has taken part in this House today, will remember very well. Just a few days later, at the core of the property transferred to "CAPITAL" by TEAD, a fire broke out. I would remind you - it has nothing to do with history - that when Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, put it there, he said that the privatisation of such a property, forest, even protects it from possible fires. The tragic irony was that after just a few days there was a fire. There have obviously been administrative and criminal procedures, pre-interviews. So I ask you to tell me about these six HYTA's fires and the Desert after all the time that has come out of them, whether they were made by human hand or by negligence. In any case, what steps has your Ministry taken to avoid this unacceptable situation that I think has never happened elsewhere in Greece this summer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u270	Madam President, with the political will of today's government expressed by the Prime Minister himself for the continued vigilance of the entire state mechanism for the immediate and effective response of fires and other natural disasters, the forces of the Fire Corps have been on hold for the entire summer months and are still on hold. With regard to the fires that broke out last June, July and August on the island of Corfu, the strains of the Fire Corps were immediately mobilized, managed to limit the natural disaster to the smallest possible extent. More specifically, in the evening of June 22nd there was a fire in the Municipal Apartment Templeni of the Municipality of Central Corfu. A sufficient number of instruments and forces were provided immediately, so that the fire could not be extended to an extent greater than two acres and attempted seven vehicles and twenty firefighters. On 31 July this afternoon there was a new fire in the same area where we had again mobilisation of competent forces and were able to put it under control immediately, limiting it to just five acres of the affected area. In this case, in addition to the seven vehicles and twenty firefighters, two PZL-type aircraft and one helicopter were attempted. Finally, with regard to the fire in the area of Eremitis in northern Corfu, it occurred on August 16th in the afternoon hours, hit a hundred and sixty acres and limiting and suppressing it direct 12 vehicles, twenty-nine firefighters, one hiking section, two PZL aircraft and two helicopters. From the very first moment, the investigating department of the Fire Department of Corfu Prefecture - and wherever necessary, the Greek Police's investigation services - which, acting quickly and effectively, has completed a number of necessary preliminary investigations and has carried out the formation of the relevant case-file. However, as you know, in accordance with Article 241 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, due to the principle of secrecy governing this stage of criminal proceedings, it is not possible in any way to disclose information of the preliminary investigation. With the completion of administrative and pre-examination actions and the submission of the relevant findings, you will be informed accordingly. Mr Aylonite, any natural disaster resulting from fire causes us all concerns and concern, since our society still has fresh memories of such murderous disasters in previous years. However, before we draw safe conclusions on the exact causes that led to the incidents that took place only a short time ago in Corfu, we must expect the completion of all actions and the adoption of the finding for each of the fires. Our decision is, as in any other natural disaster of fire or any other cause, to shed plenty of light on the causes of the natural wealth and beauty of the island of Corfu, which, as you mentioned, are unique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u272	Minister, I have been working for many years on local self-government in Corfu and in the area of HYTA and Teblonio, but also on Paxes - as much as in Kefalonia and Lefkada - fires have repeatedly erupted. I've never seen anything in the media. Refer to Article 241 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Listen, I am not asking for the conclusion of the pre-inquiry procedure, but for the conclusion of the administrative review. I want him to answer the question whether there is a human hand or not. I'm not asking for the name, if there's any defendant in the criminal trial. To God! But have you realised in Templelon that works literally a landfill for twenty years, to erupt two fires this year and before more fires, what amount of dioxins has gone into the air and within a radius of how many kilometres? You cannot see the smell from the fire, not from the smoke, but from the gases. Dioxin! Shouldn't your department issue a finding that says something's going on there? In Herimitis, a few days after the visit by Mr. Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of Greece, to an emblematic development movement that invests in various arguments, especially Mr.Adonis Georgiadis, it erupts at its core where it will be built, that is, where the piece of the investment is, a fire and in such a way that the fire goes to that point and to Albania. Everyone says that one hand put it on, which is why I don't know. Should we not, then, see the six fires erupted in the Ionian Islands Cyber Cybers and the fact that some time ago you introduced the regional level instrument that will manage the region's waste and factories? Why there? Have you been born a suspect? I'm not a cop or a conspiracy officer. But I'm concerned about this. It employs the society of Corfu. The question of health is mainly of concern to the society of Corfu. We're talking about huge quantities. A few days ago I went to the Paxos. It was the fire that broke out after the question was submitted. It was still burning. Right next to the Paxos HDD, in a wonderful place, it's the biological plant. Have you realised that he was expanding there? What measures has your ministry taken? Leave local government, it has its responsibilities. Your ministry? Did you see if there's a fire protection system in HSY or HSY, do you say it's what you want? In this sense, therefore, I say that all the evils in this place have been found before and with the current government. I'm not just limiting disasters in your period. What are you doing? What will be your government's samples of the people of Corfu and the Paxes, and, in extended terms, since these events have taken place, on the Ionian Sea islands, in Kefalonia, which is still burning fire into the HYTA and Lefkada which have recently suffered and disasters due to the theoremia? So please take a much more serious look at this than answer me with a provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Let me testify, Madam President, to photographs. I went on the spot to take some pictures. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis, presents for the minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u273	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u274	Madam President, Mr Aylonite, we are dealing with this issue in all its dimensions with the attention and importance of all the necessary investigations, in order to reach safe conclusions and to give responsibility there and to the extent that they exist. Early assessment and early public assumption show only urgency on our part. We shall avoid that. And I don't just invoke 241 for formal reasons. The reasons are substantial. We really have to respect our procedural framework, which determines how the necessary pre-examination acts are carried out. I therefore think that we all have the same sensitivity to look for the reasons and to account for the responsibilities where they exist and to the extent that they exist. After all, the current government has been taking responsibility for the country's administration at the very first time. It has been launching a comprehensive plan to upgrade the structures of the state mechanism and, in particular, civil protection, with a view to ensuring maximum security for citizens and their property against fires, as well as any other natural disasters. To this end, particular attention was paid to redesigning, but also to reorganising those services which could respond with adequacy and implicitness in the case of fires and other similar natural disasters. This is a long-term, daily process, which requires continuous evaluation and where necessary remodelling. Particular attention has been paid to the area of acquisition of the most modern resources, which will enable the executives of the Fire Corps to attempt quickly, efficiently and safely to meet any challenge they are faced with. The effort is lasting and painful, but at the same time also of the utmost importance to the Greek society that he trusted us, as well as to the women and men of the Fire Corps, who, for one more year, stand by self-depression, uninvited guardians of the unique beauty of our country, as well as of the life and property of the citizens. In particular, the Government's interest in Corfu, as well as in the Ionian islands, do not question it. It is proved in practice in many areas and will be proved very soon. We are also close to the quickest possible restoration of natural disasters by the recent floods that have tested the Ionian islands, but also other areas such as Thessaly. The government's interest and presence are daily, with substantial and effective measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-21-S1-commons.u276	With the consent of the House at 20.21 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 22 September 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
