ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 7-7-2020, the Minutes of the ROE Bureau of Tuesday, 7 July 2020, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] ‘Preparation of the Comprehensive Partnership between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. ‘Preparation of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the State of Israel and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic on the Supply of Equipment and Defence Services’) Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two announcements to this House: The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Company governance of public limited companies, modern capital market, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2017/828 of the European Parliament and of the Council, measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and other provisions’. The Ministers for Culture and Sport, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Tourism and State tabled a draft law on 7-7-2020 entitled "Centre for Culture and Creation Acropolis and other provisions". They shall be referred to the competent continuous committee. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Public outdoor meetings and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 2 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at two meetings, in principle and on articles. Today's sitting will be discussed and the bill will be passed in principle. At tomorrow's meeting the articles of the bill will be discussed and voted on as a unity, as well as the entire bill. I would like to remind you that we have returned to normality, which means that colleagues are written freely. The registration list will be opened as soon as Mr Karagkounis as a majority rapporteur goes to Step and as soon as Mr Ragus comes down from Step, he is the general rapporteur from SYRIZA. The list of speakers will also be exhausted today. We do not know the time, because we must first see the number of Members registered. We will therefore all codecision together on a proposal from the Bureau, since we have the list as soon as Mr Ragousse comes down from the Step. These are introductory terms, which I believe there is no objection. Before we begin, I will inform you that once the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has submitted an application for unconstitutionality to the bill, entitled 'Public outdoor meetings and other provisions', has been submitted to the Bureau. Then we begin, without waste of time, the well-known process. Mr. Ragus will first speak as sayings. The opposite is Mr Javarras on behalf of the New Democracy. As usual, he will speak last, after the representatives of the other parties in opposition speak. Mr Ragosi, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. How could a bill which, since May, the Mitsotakis Government wanted to bring to the Greek Parliament a true copy, faithful transposition of its basic provisions by the 1971 Junta Legislative Decree? How could such a bill not be unconstitutional? A mere look at a non-legislative person throwing in Article 11 of the Constitution there is no doubt that he will be convinced and fully convinced for two reasons: Firstly, because the 1975 Constitution did not establish its right to assemble for Greek women and Greeks following the authorisation of the Greek Police. It provides it and provides it and defines it as an unconditional right to its exercise in constitutional law. Secondly, because Article 11 itself in just two cases gives the constitutional right, the legal competence, to the Greek police to ban concentrations, to restrict democratic concentrations: When public order is called into question and when excessive disruption, as the Constitution says, is threatened by the social and economic life of a city. In both cases, it expressly and restrictively refers to them. So this bill that has come to the Greek Parliament is grossly unconstitutional. It is a faithful copy of the Decree-Law of the Junta of 1971, making the authorisation by the police conditional on the exercise of this right for Greeks and Greeks, a right which under no circumstances is announced, under any circumstances subject to the authorisation of the police, is in no way subject to preventive control by the police. Also, because this bill introduces many other police capabilities, despite the two strictly limited possibilities mentioned by the Constitution itself, and gives with these extra possibilities, the anti-constitutionals mentioned in the bill, the possibility for the Greek Police - and we will then say about the Greek Police, and what is actually - to ban democratic gatherings, to ban the democratic inalienable constitutional right of Greeks and Greeks. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if this has so far been the basic and well-founded opposition and criticism, not only of us, of the Civilian Opposition, of the SYRIZA and of the progressive alliance, but also of most opposition parties, now it is not just that. It's not just the criticism of ours. It is not just our belief that this is an anti-democratic and anti-constitutional bill. Now there is the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, which, in fact, and in its own words, fully confirms this criticism, gives it legal certainty. If there was the least democratic sensitivity to today's Prime Minister and the current political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, after the report of the Scientific Office of the House, the discussion of this draft law in plenary should be suspended. It is a slap for Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Chrysochoidis the report of the Scientific Council of the Parliament. As is the "slap" and trick and the decision of the Coordinating Committee of the Presidents of Greece's Bar Associations, which denounces the regulation of this bill as unconstitutional. For all these reasons, Mr President, we are not just suggesting that the request for unconstitutionality should be accepted on this bill, but that we should fill in this. Because we are all well aware of the formality of Parliament's procedure and because we can all anticipate that the majority - alone or not, we will see it - will reject such an objection of unconstitutionality here. We note that they will not avoid, no matter what Parliament's plenary decides today, the suffering of the crisis over the unconstitutionality of this bill by the country's Supreme Court, by the Council of State, which is no doubt called and will take a position on the clear anti-constitutionalism you are introducing today as a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u3	I would like to inform the House and say this to be recorded in the Minutes, because I was informed orally - so that we do not now completely keep the guys - from Mrs Adamopoulou that the anti-constitutional objection is also tabled by the Merra25 party. As usual, they are discussed together. In any case, the debate would start now, so you have the floor, Mr Adamopoulou. Finishing, please bring me a copy to the dashboard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have already mentioned at committee meetings that the provision which provides for an obligation to notify or prevent the police, in order to make the meeting unconstitutional, infringes Article 11 of the Constitution, because we know that the failure to disclose the meeting does not render it illegal and is clearly the responsibility of the organiser whether or not to make it known. The second issue concerns the recent legislative improvements. We have seen that the last addition that has been made is trying to even work with the public prosecutors themselves, obliging prosecutors to attend public meetings in person and to participate in the committee that will ban the meeting as illegal. This is in direct contrast with Article 87 of the Constitution, but also with the Code of Justice and Court of Justice, because it gives prosecutors executive powers, administrative powers, which are appropriate to an executive body, and we know that the powers of the public prosecutors and judicial authorities are purely judicial, disciplinary and auditing powers. I am telling you this letter, the memorandum of the Association of Prosecutors of Greece itself, which states that if a question arises of establishing a compulsory presence of a public prosecutor in an outdoor meeting, with reference to the powers of operational organisation or the dissolution of public meetings, this will be a regulation that comes into intrinsic incompatibility with Article 87 and subsequent articles of the Constitution, given that it confers on the judicial authorities, the judiciary, administrative powers belonging to the executive authority and its bodies. We therefore see, Mr President-in-Office, that all this opposition we have made to you is not a product of ideological obsession. Could we now say that the public prosecutors, who clearly invoke a constitutional claim, are ideologically obsessed and tell you that this addition is unconstitutional? We therefore call on you to withdraw this provision and this addition from the bill, because the rule of law and constitutional rights are very much affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u5	Good, so am I. On behalf of the party, the Parliamentary Representative Mr Heitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to say that in this Chamber this hypocrisy goes a long way, Mr President. Some people here are still invoking the law of 1971, constantly mentioning the junta, when they all had the opportunity, four and a half years and five years that have commanded the country, to change all of this, but obviously everything that is said and heard is pretext. There is, Mr President, a 'funny' from a part of this Parliament, who want our Greece, want our society, want the capital and co-chairman to live in a mess's rhythm. They do not care either the law, the order, or the afflicted Greek people can go to his work as he wants or the entrepreneurs to live. They are talking about democratic concentrations and about a democratic right of everyone, which nobody takes. But the same people who are talking about the democratic right - because the word 'democracy' we have taken it and we have forgotten it, Mr President - do not say or worry that we have almost a diversion of democracy with everything that has been heard in recent times, with the smell of a scandal we have, by way of misconduct, with business and with all that. Isn't that what they see? Aren't these unconstitutional? Is that the only law unconstitutional? There is no unconstitutionalism. You know, Mr. President, what is there? There is impunity, there is, Mr President. No unconstitutionalism or nothing, there is impunity in our country. They break and tear. The otherwise lousy pedestrian path, this long walk by Mr Bakoyannis - irrelevant - was yesterday looted. Five hundred euros or one pensioner! Who will pay for this, Mr President? Will you pay for it, Mr. Ragosi? SYRIZA? Who will take over these "bugs" yesterday, who destroyed the pedestrian road and the long ride? Who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u7	I'm celebrating.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u8	Years old, since you're celebrating, pay for it. Let's see, in the master's account, Mr. Chrysochoid, the gentleman's gonna pay for it. I will pay them, Mr Colleague, as always paid by the Greek people. Greece cannot always be the barbarians' charm. The gentlemen sitting next to you are organized, coordinates and scheduled. Take examples from the PAME and the Communist Party of Greece, if you want to have a constitutional gathering, because unconstitutional is what happens out there. So, Mr President - and I am ending with this - everything we have heard in the last few days and all these disasters that are happening every day, because today we have more marches and we will have more marches every day. And what is that now, is it constitutional, so that I can't go to work? And we have said many times that this bill, regardless of what you will do at the end, Minister, and we have asked you to do so, and we hope that, today, in the forty-eight hours before us, you will not tighten up the existing penalties, because it is a matter of the Ministry of Justice, but you will put stricter penalties. Do the felony to put a mind on them, or they'll break and be devastated, Minister. Today we are talking about the bill and yesterday they broke Athens again. What can we say now? Hypocrisy goes too far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u9	We move on with Mr Gioka on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Unlike those who support the unconstitutionality of this law - and we support it in clarifying the unconstitutionality of this law - I would like to make it clear that we are not politically defending Article 11 of the Constitution. And I want to make that clear. Article 11 of the Constitution, and in its current form, with the vague concepts it contains, such as, for example, the disruption of social and economic life, such as the protection of public security, gave the possibility, again in its current form, of limiting the right to a meeting. That is why we, in the recent constitutional review, have proposed revising this article in order to truly guarantee the right to concentrations and meetings. Of course, all of this is a matter of correlation, political, social relation, and the labour, the popular movement has won its right to claim, protest, protest and go by saying. But I want to make it politically clear how we stand in Article 11. However, the restrictions imposed by this bill even go beyond those restrictions contained in Article 11 of the Constitution, in its current form. In Article 2 of the draft law, in paragraph 10, which refers to a number of restrictions, it refers to the fact that traffic is not hindered. Where does this result from in the Constitution, the non-inhibition of traffic, when it is a natural-linguistic element of a concentration involving thousands of people, that there will be a blockade of traffic? It also refers as a legitimate restriction to the non-restriction of access to public services and public utility organisations. In other words, the mobilisation of a union in the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Finance or the mobilisation of PPC because it has cut the current on an unemployed person, this mobilisation that resurrects the limitations that the Constitution itself puts, on the basis of the provisions of the bill, can be banned. Let's go down. The implementation of the concentration is now dependent on the prior authorisation of the police. It is a formal prerequisite for the police's permission to hold a meeting. In fact, the police, apart from the organizer, beyond the place, in time, will judge the purpose of the gathering. So he'll judge what? He will judge the contents of the concentration. This all refers to the text of the bill and we have raised it all these days at Parliament meetings. Another restriction. It is stated in Article 7 that a concentration cannot be effected if it has previously been authorised for another concentration which has the opposite purpose. What does that mean? It means, for example, that if there is a fascist concentration and there is a concentration against it, the second concentration must be banned. Where do all this come from in the Constitution? We brought you the example of the mergers that took place in 2015 with 'yes' and 'no' in this polling referendum. Then there were two gatherings. There was a gathering of "no" in Syntagma Square and a gathering of "yes" in Zappeion. They became next door. I am not in the political process to judge, because 'no' to the essence was 'yes'. If this bill were to apply, one of the two mergers would have to be banned. All of this is contained in the text of the bill. And, of course, it is the civil responsibility of the organiser who abolishes, not every concept of constitution, any concept of civil law, the principle of fault, since the defendant, the organizer, will also have the burden of proof - the first time, Mr Javarra, this has never existed in civil law - that he has taken all the necessary measures and is therefore not responsible for the damage caused by many others. For all these reasons, therefore, we support the unconstitutionality of the bill, without politically defending Article 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Change Movement, the reason is for the special speaker, Mr Kamines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In constitutional law, Mr President, there is a basic principle that there is no power without responsibility. Of course, the reverse is true. Nor should responsibility be sought if no power is exercised. Each individual right contains a percentage of power. This recognizes the legal order of individuals, this field of freedom. And as power, it must be exercised with responsibility. It is not unfair to inform the police of a demonstration. However, the quest for responsibilities by the organisers, if they have not taken all appropriate and necessary measures to prevent damage, as the report by the Scientific Agency says, is causing a problem. You must state that there is only responsibility for the organisers when they failed to comply with the conditions laid down in Article 4, they did not notify the meeting and did not take care of the protection and cooperation with the police. This objective responsibility is unconstitutional. As also, there is one problem with counter-demonstration. The counter-demonstration is not by definition illegal. Indeed, it also took place in 2015. At the same time we had two intersectional opposite meetings. It can be prohibited, dissolved only when it poses a risk to public security, as provided for in the Constitution. So these corrections, which the Scientific Office points out, will definitely have to bring them here and discuss them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u13	We reach the vice-chairman on behalf of the majority who is Mr.Javaras Konstantinos. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Two issues have been raised in the debate on unconstitutionalism. One is the objection of anti-constitutionalism made by the Acoustic Opposition and Mera25 and, on the other hand, there is a second issue concerning the question of the responsibility of the organiser of a public meeting, on the part of and in the interests of investigating the provision of Article 13 of this draft law. So let's start with the issues of unconstitutionalism. I have not understood what Mr Ragus and Mrs Adamopoulou have said in what specific provisions of the Constitution are contrary to or which specific provisions of the Constitution violate the provisions of the legislation under discussion and the drafting of a bill. Why? Because the debate on the unconstitutionality of a bill, fate, in order to be serious, responsible and honest and even parliamentary decency, should be made with reference to the provisions of the Constitution. I, Mr Ragosisi, would expect at least a more concrete approach to the issue that had arguments. Because it is not an argument that this bill is worse than Legislative Decree 794/1971. What is worse, believe me, is that SYRIZA or else, even SYRIZA, the party of the radical left that has ruled the place for five years, has been tolerated to regulate public outdoor meetings and to exercise a democratically superior, fundamental individual right collectively exercised under the rules of law. This is precisely the great value and great importance of the bill that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis brings to this Chamber today. And it is, as Mr Manitakis said in a recent article, the first post-government government to put it in the lawlessness regime that prevailed in exercising that particular right. So what we are called today is to put a tombstone on this Legislative Decree 794/1971. This is not the case, of course, because this is how the prosecutor of the Ice Arrow, Mr Vassilis Papadakis, said in his opinion in number 4 of 1989, but because this is the case under provisions 111 and 112 of the Constitution, on the basis of which, if the provisions of the Constitution provide for the adoption of an implementing law, the law in force until then, which covers the case, of course, does not apply to the anti-constitutional provisions, which in any case includes Decree-Law No 794/1971. So SYRIZA should today praise the government and the majority in support of this particular reform, which has institutional and, indeed, reformist status of the introduction of the prerogative conditions, as the JRC says, liberal democracy. Now, I must say to you - and I do not want to be sad about you - that even a person you value for his constitutional adequacy, Professor Nikos Alvizatou, in a specific article praises him for the virtues of this bill, and in particular we should bear in mind that this provision of Article 11 of the Constitution, the right to which the government regulates, is precisely the provision contained in the European Convention on Human Rights under Article 11, which includes, in addition to the specific references to the risks, made in paragraph 2 of Article 11, namely the protection of public order and security, but also the socio-economic function of a region, and a number of other risks that the joint legislator must definitely take into account. These are, among other things, the prevention of crime and, above all, the rights and freedoms of third parties. So exactly these references are made by the Minister with a great deal of adequacy and a lot of democratic responsibility when he mentions them in this legislation. And he does this, as you know, because the European Convention on Human Rights is a text of super-legislative power, and that is why he is democratically sensitive - and this is our Minister and Prime Minister - is most importantly responsible for creating conditions for the smooth functioning of the democratic society. Apart from that, however, the same provision exists in Article 12 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and we transfer it here. However, under Article 52 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which forms an integral part of the European Union's instruments of constitution and which binds us, we must accept that the restrictions placed on the exercise of the right do not restrict the right but reasonably protect third-party rights and, indeed, freedoms and individual rights of others, which are, in fact, obliged by the legislator to take account of them. All this shall be weighted according to the provision of Article 25 of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For this provision of Article 25 of the Constitution, you will allow me to make a reference. It is the provision that, with the 2001 Review, the government's initiative at the time of the PASOK, we have come to adopt three basic regulations. The first regulation is that human rights, whether as a person or as a member of society, are guaranteed by the State. The constitutional state, the democratic state, cannot therefore be interested in creating conditions for the absolute exercise and functioning of the individual right laid down and resulting from the provision of Article 11. The second is that each state institution has a responsibility to guarantee the absolute and effective exercise of this right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the police here are not a fear, but a part of the administration of the state which has a constitutional obligation to take protective measures to ensure the exercise of the insolvent, the freedom, the primacy of this particular individual right, which is of a dual nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Javarra, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. The most important thing is that the fourth and last subparagraphs of Article 25(1) are mentioned and that restrictions on individual rights can only be established by respecting the principle of proportionality, i.e. where such measures are appropriate, necessary. They're words the bill uses. But, finally, what unconstitutionality are we talking about? And, of course, we should know...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Javarra, we're gonna have to shut it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u18	Let's turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u19	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u20	I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u21	There is, however, one issue of the counter-demonstration which has been put forward and which must be answered. Indeed, here it is very simple and clear the meaning resulting from the provisions mentioned above. These two demonstrations, in so far as they constitute a collective exercise of individual rights protected by the provision of Article 11, must be made to try to manifest and carry out both. However, if there is a contrast, if this contrast threatens to break the order or criminal acts directed against the property of other citizens are threatened, the police, in this case, as an expression of the administration of the state, are obliged to take restrictive measures. And if it can't be with these limitations, it can be performed, then you have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, you will allow me to raise a final point because it is of great importance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, we will speak an hour each.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u25	Mr Giokas, with the greatest honesty than anyone else, raised an issue. It raised the question of the responsibility provided for in Article 13. Indeed, the report by the Scientific Council makes a detailed reference. And these developments, which also come from a text of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, are very important. But, Mr. Gioka, you will allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Javarra, I can't give you any more time. Finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u27	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, if possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u29	In the Civil Code, there is the case of third-party responsibility. These are the cases under Articles 334 of the Civil Code for the liability of the assistant and 921 of the Civil Code for the liability of the affected person. But my position is, personally, that the Minister should rethink this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u30	We continue with the position of the Minister, Mr Chrysochide. Minister, would you like to speak? It's not mandatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u31	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor for five minutes. Then, of course, he has the right to see, if he wishes, Mr Lebanese. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, many words are poverty, and Mr Javarras knows many words. Since he considers that we are not parliamentaryly decent and cannot defend our request for unconstitutionality, I urge him to read a little better the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, which will make him understand, in terms of parliamentary decency, which, I suppose, does not question the Scientific Council of Parliament, that the draft law tabled by Mr Chrysochidis is unconstitutional. If that is not enough, he can also see the opinions submitted by SYRIZA a few days ago by the Council of State in relation to Mr. Dendia's presidential decrees, where he is very clearly analysed that the grounds for banning a demonstration are listed restrictively in the Constitution and are two. Firstly, there is a risk of public security and, secondly, a serious disturbance in economic and social life. I'll come back. If it is not enough for him, he can read the communication of the plenary coordination of the legal associations that I suspect that neither in this coordination is Mr Javaras's democratic decency, where he also argues that the bill tabled by Mr Chrysochoidis is unconstitutional, and this is in terms of the preventive ban on demonstration by the police or the port authority. I'm saying that for decency. On the substance of the bill, and after Mr Javarras questioned whether we named or specified its unconstitutionalities in relation to the articles of the Constitution, I would say to you, Mr Javarra and fellow Members of the New Democracy and Mr Minister, in particular, an indirect and direct unconstitutional nature of the bill. Firstly, in relation to indirect anti-constitutionalism, it provides for the bill organiser of the demonstration that Mr Karagunis had described at a previous committee meeting as a 'Chairman', and, if you like, the terminology used by Presidential Decree 794/1971. He was talking about the presidential decree of the junta "Chairman of the meeting". I imagine Mr Karagunis will be able to make good on his current position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u34	In the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u35	In any case, I say that this bill stipulates an organisation for which it provides that it will have civil liability if it arises during the demonstration. That means that he will have to compensate himself. What's this arrangement doing? This provision does not merely excessively restrict the right to assemble and assemble. He's doing more than that. It prevents it. In other words, this procedural requirement is a deterrent to exercising the right to assembly and assembly. And you will know, Mr Javarra, that in this case, when we have damage to the core of the right, we do not even enter the debate to see whether the right has been restricted proportionally. We are not in the process of examining compliance with the principle of proportionality. We are damaged at the core of the right, and we are not even in the analysis of proportionality. An anti-constitutional arrangement has already been decided at that point. We've got a kernel limitation. We're prevented. That is the indirect anti-constitutionality. Do you want to go to the immediate unconstitutionality? The immediate unconstitutionality is as follows: the Constitution, as you will know very well, provides for two reasons for banning a demonstration. One reason is public security. The other reason is the serious disturbance of economic and social life. How's your bill? It adds two other grounds of prohibition other than those laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution, violating it. And what are the reasons for the break-up of the protest? It is the failure to notify the beginning - a third reason, apart from the reasons set out in the Constitution - and the non-compliance with police restrictions. Fourth reason for dismantling a demonstration. This, as you can see, Mr Javarra, is in complete contrast with the reason for the break-up of the demonstration in the Constitution. We therefore have a direct violation of Article 11 of the Constitution, so immediate unconstitutionalism. So, for the non-parliamentaryly decent presence of SYRIZA, who has not allegedly mentioned specific articles which violate your legislation, a piece of legislation of fascist inspiration, paternalist logic, a piece of legislation that comes in this period, because the New Democracy has, on the one hand, an ideological obsession with the weak, against those who claim, to those who are obliged and forced by your policies to go on the road to claim first. And secondly, why are you afraid of something, gentlemen of the New Democracy? You are afraid that the economic disaster caused by the collapse of the Greek economy by the Mitsotakis Government...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Janakopoulou, speak of constitutionality and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u37	Twelve minutes Mr Javarras spoke out of order and said nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u38	Good. I'll tell you in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u39	The economic collapse, which you have brought, will lead to a social explosion, which you wish to prevent with this fascist bill of inspiration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u40	For the sake of equal treatment, I'm doing the same circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u41	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Javarra, excuse me, you're the opposite. You don't have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u43	On personal grounds, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Lebanese will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Javarra, excuse me, but I have given the floor to another. Please! You don't have the floor. Let us make it easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, what I have said is a different meaning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u48	Please, sit down. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Since my dear Mr. Javarras has referred to parliamentary decency, I should like to say to him that I do not feel it and very delightful to start his speech by saying that both the rapporteur of Officerial Response, and Mrs Adamopoulou, on our part, argued without invoking articles of the Constitution and then dedicating eleven or twelve minutes, giving us a detailed account of what Mr Ragus said, but avoiding all references to Mrs. Adamopoulou. Otherwise, Mr President, it could be differently done, since Mrs Adamopoulou has invoked two articles in the Constitution. I repeat, Mr Javarra, that you and your resignation and the Minister, above all, that this is Article 87 and Article 11 of the Constitution. Article 11 does not distinguish and protect spontaneous meetings. Spontaneous meetings are apparently the ones that are being created spontaneously. The spontaneous creation of what one cannot guess is spontaneous, so as to notify the beginning of what is called Police. The second point concerning Article 87 relates to the public prosecutor's intervention, and I reread what Mrs Adamopoulou has already said to you, because you seem to have failed to notice them. Why else, how come you didn't invoke them in your argument? As you know better than I do, the Code of Justice and the Statute of Judges - see Article 25 and 41 - defines the constitutional concerns and exclusive competence of prosecutors in which there is no disciplinary or judicial representation, Mr President, in the public meetings or in the committee set up to dismantle the public open-air assembly, since these powers are neither disciplinary nor judicial. It's very simple, Mr. Javarra. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, can I now have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Javarra, you didn't hear me. I'll close the circle I've opened for your staff. I'll give you the floor for a minute at the end. I cannot dismantle the flow of parliamentarians. Mr. Heta, do you want the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u52	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. From the Change Movement, who's gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u54	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u55	Now this is done by way of derogation and because of the love of Mr Scandalidis, because Mr Kegeroglou normally speaks. Apparently, he's giving you his place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u56	He's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u57	We're out of paper. Please correct that he is Mr. Scandalidis. So, apart from personal love, there is the parliamentary class. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, usually these unconstitutional discussions involving the various articles of the Constitution, which are very important, become very detailed. I think the arguments are clear. But here there is a political fact, which, Minister, you must take into account. It is not just the confrontation of Opposition on civil and criminal liability. It is the confrontation of the Parliamentary Scientific Service, which, in fact, with very clear, imprudent arguments, clearly highlights the unconstitutional provision of Article 13. That cannot be denied. So you have a way to bring about a change, if you continue and do not now have an answer from you to it, during the debate on this particular article. And this change should be such that it fully ensures the constitutional standards and it will certainly solve the great political problem of becoming the subject of the provocative event, or any person who tries to shape the conditions of a protest or a meeting himself with his own property and with his life for things that anyone in this city can do. There are also specific objections to the connection that it is not even the area in which this procedure can be carried out on the basis of the previous Articles, so there is also a constitutional gap here too. We are simply saying that this provision is unconstitutional and must be changed. If you do not change it, we will table another amendment which we will bring during the debate. As far as the rest of our position on the issues of the bill is concerned, we will formulate them in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u59	Good. Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are once again spectators of the same sirial that the representatives of SYRIZA come here and actually see the reality backwards. You have received the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, which says exactly the opposite. You come and testify to arguments without a basis and evocate irresistible lies. This is your strategy to cover the lack of political speech. You are not listening to us, but you are not listening to your former President, Mr. Konstantopoulos, who is trying to bring you back to class and collect whatever debris are on this party. You don't even listen to Mr. Alivizatos, you don't hear Mr. Manitakis, and finally you don't listen to the excellent legal Mr. Javarra, who is trying to tell you that you have to stop being exposed. But that does not surprise us, because yesterday at the birthday of the New Democracy Government, we saw just these two models in the faces of the two Heads of State. On the one hand, Kyriakos Mitsotakis raised the issues relating to the next day of our country, in the next generations, and on the other hand we had Mr Tsipras who, like you, Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Ragosi, came here without arguments and did not say a word about the abominable scandals that you devoured, cast out a dissatisfactory, insulting speech for his opponents, but also about democracy itself, to say what at the end? To invite you Members, without, of course, having courage to call for elections, and to say that you must overthrow this government. Just because you are now politically being destroyed, you are trying to create a division in Greek society and in Parliament to deal with your internal problems. We, the Minister, the Deputy Minister, the political leadership, showed during this debate to the committee that it is on the other line, as the Prime Minister yesterday, on the line of consensus. There was an extensive dialogue. A bill came in which essentially comes to set a framework for citizens' rights, for the right to protest. He heard the criticism of the opposition and incorporated in this draft law all the serious proposals that have been heard in the Chamber. This shows the democratic sensitivity of political leadership. This shows the willingness of our Government and the Prime Minister to reach agreement and deal with the problems together. You dream, as you said, Mr Janakopoulos sadly again, brags, ravines, disasters with only one goal: to come back, as the Prime Minister said from this Step here yesterday, to power. He's laughing, too! Today we will see, as Mr Ragus said, that you will look for arguments to oppose a serious legal framework that comes in and incorporates Greece into the European regime. We're the only country that doesn't have a framework for the protests. My dear colleague, Mrs Vuldesis, has done a very good job which, I think, she is dedicating to you with democratic sensitivity and love and has explained to you, and she will do so, and today I imagine in plenary what is going on in all the countries of Europe. I will only stand by for a moment, because we are also waiting for your comment on this, on what is going on in Spain and how it is protected by Franco's law there, the partner on the Left and the overthrow of Mr Iglesias. You haven't opened your mouth to say anything about it, but we're waiting for your answer. As far as the part of the constitutionality is concerned, the legal arguments have been put forward in this Chamber. The opinions have been heard and we will then decide, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. However, this continued position for an alleged identification of the New Democracy and of anyone else, possibly the Change Movement, votes this bill at first with the junta shows that you are unequivocal and dangerous. Whether you haven't felt as faces what EBA - ESH will say, what it will say in prison, what it will say exile, what it will say junta, or the older ones of you have forgotten it. And you make a historical mistake in this Chamber. Apart from being foolish because you have no arguments to teach in the next generations, you identify in the eyes of children who are following the parliamentary process and the political dialogue democratically elected MPs, parties that have come and have taken a large majority with the junta. This is disgraceful, disgraceful and, above all, history itself will condemn you. We have the courage, and that's obvious, they call it the top constitutionalists, we bring this bill and we vote on it. We have the political will, the head of the ministry, to implement this bill the next day. We will all be here in your challenge to go to any court and judge that constitutionality. We respect the institutions and the separation of powers. You're walking on them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u61	The debate is closed. He lives before I go to the vote for two minutes to give the floor to Mr Javarra on staff. You have the floor for two minutes, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have heard from Mr Janakopoulos that this bill is a fascinating inspiration, and I am indeed sad at it, and I personally express one, if you wish, in order to keep the measure of reasons in this Chamber because it is the exercise of popular sovereignty. So three points I want to stress. Firstly, the bill does not impose prior authorisation from the Police Authority, but only notification. This has been judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u63	Is that personal, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u64	Where's the staff, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u65	In this. The fact that a different concept has been given to what I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u66	What is being done is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u67	But please, finally, sir! Do you not tolerate the opposite view and invoke the laurels of democracy in your parties?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u68	That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u69	You're usually calm. Mr. Javarra, please complete the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u70	Right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u71	How do you allow that? Is it personal? Where's the staff? This is about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u72	Mr Ragossis, the voice of your highness and not the Bureau. Calm down because you are obviously ignoring the Rules of Procedure for disrespecting the Bureau. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Javarras is violating the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Javarra, just hang up in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u75	I'll be back in a minute. First, the notification system is a means of protecting the exercise of the right. But the Council of Europe, the Court of Human Rights...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u76	What does this have to do with the staff, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u77	But what I said has been distorted, Mr President. The staff isn't that I was shot. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u78	Finish it. Mr. Triantafylides, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u79	I said that a different concept was given to what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u80	Well, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u81	Firstly, the European Court of Human Rights has said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u82	But you explained that, Mr. Javarra!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u83	Follow the Rules of Procedure, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u84	Wait a minute, Mr President! You gave me two minutes, won't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u85	But please, finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u86	Just let Mr. Janakopoulos think that Sweden, which is one of the most democratic states in Europe, has the prior authorization system, does not have a simple notification system, and if in fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u87	Good! Calm down, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u88	No, we're not calming down!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Javarra, please close now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u90	I shall conclude, Mr President. If this was not a system of preventive control or policing, then the non-notification would have declared illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u91	Shut up, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u92	Apply the Rules of Procedure! It's a disgrace to what's going on! You're breaking the Rules of Procedure! This is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u93	...the specific event, the specific meeting. As far as the matter is concerned, you don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u94	No, you have no more reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u96	No, shut up! You have no more reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, for the prosecutors!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Javarra, you no longer have the floor! For reasons of equal treatment, Mr Janakopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes and we're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u99	First of all, what am I supposed to say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u100	Don't report by name, because we'll go back to them. Say what you want without a nominal report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u101	Obviously, the rival of the New Democracy, since no nominal reference is allowed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u102	I didn't tell you I forbid you! It's closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u103	...surprised by the legal arguments, which were heard by the Opposition, and which did not give the slightest answer in his 12-minute initial position, and he wanted to call again on the floor to try - if you like - to formulate something as a legal argument claiming he has a personal issue. In any case, Mr Javarra, I will tell you something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Javarra...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u105	Although you are laughing and trying to turn the process into some kind of pharmacody in relation to the phrase that the bill is 'fascist inspiration', I will tell you this and listen - do not speak on the phone, Mr Javarra - and the opposite to your positions. In the first committee Mr Kastanides of the Change Movement had said that the objective responsibility of the organizer, which the bill provides, is fascist inspiration and has been abandoned for many decades by our legal system. So don't just mess with me, don't just mess with SYRIZA Members. Here we have a provision, but also a bill, I will say in favour of Mr Castanides, who is a fascist inspiration. The fact that this is annoying you, I think that it runs counter to the basic new ideological lines adopted by the New Democracy on a number of issues, whether those relate to public order, to refugee or, more generally, to its ideological direction to social and political issues. It's simple!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u106	Rules say so. Read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u107	I understand that it bothers you, Mr Javarra, because you still consider yourself a liberal. But you no longer belong to a liberal party. You belong to a party that is Neodexia and is similar to its policies with the new current that Mr Donald Trump is currently leading. That's what you are, admit it, be content with it. Give the ideological struggle between the New Democracy party if liberal values return within you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of constitutionality has been completed. Please accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism. [[Accepting opposition to unconstitutionality]] The rejecting of the objection of anti-constitutionality, please rise. [[Dismissing opposition to unconstitutionality]] In its assessment of the Bureau, more obviously, those against the objection of anti-constitutionality were raised. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Then we return to the agenda and the rapporteur-general is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, may I have the floor for a legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u110	Minister, you have the floor to describe it in two minutes. Also, submit it in the Minutes to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u111	I am making legislative improvements on the basis of the opinion of the Scientific Council of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u112	To be photographed and given to all colleagues. Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor. It should also open up the registration system for Members, which, as I said, will close once Mr Karagunis has come down from the Stepma. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are, unfortunately, the country that is always delaying self-evident. This draft law on public outdoor meetings is, in my view, a great self-evident one for which, not only did we delayed doing something, but we delayed several decades to deal seriously with a matter that exists, with an issue that concerns the vast majority of the Greek people, a matter that has been regulated by all the European legal classes and laws of the Western world and, as we have said many times in the committee, an issue that is almost identical, both in our and the other legal classes, which I mentioned to you. And to explain to Mr Janakopoulos, because he reiterated it, that the definition of 'President' is terminology used by Germany in its legal order for the organizer. So if you think that Germany is also a jungle country or has fascist logic, then you will obviously have to tell Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Tsakalotos who have very special relations with Germany to take it. The truth is that the way some of you prefer to handle and place themselves on this issue is really the painless way. And what we have to agree at last is that it is self-evident for a European country and its capital not to be paralysed, because some small minorities in this way I want to think they can use the right to assembly in a way which is abusive and disproportionate, because, as has been said many times in committees, we have a problem of weighing constitutional rights. On the one hand, the right to assembly and, on the other, the right to democratic opinion and disagreement, and on the other, the right of all of us to security, social peace, public order, respect for life and property. Right, then, this law brings about a weighting of interests and a balance in the exercise of the above constitutional rights, which are very often conflicting in practice. And if we all want to be honest, and we want to reasonably find a common component, ladies and gentlemen, we must agree that such a weighting and balance must also be made in Greece. Unfortunately, however, we have heard it today by Mr Jakakopoulos once again from Mr Ragosi - they are, unfortunately, out of place and time. We have heard again what we know about junta and yet this because it has decided that this government will finally bring about a bill that, as I said before, sets limits on all those years that were uncomfortable with city centres. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that it is a matter of honour for the political world to support this effort, because we always have to have an image in mind. There are many such images, but I'm going to choose this picture of death course outside Marfin. The image, two of the most beautiful historical buildings in Athens, become a falsification of fire. The image of ordinary daily workers drowning in the smoke caused by the killer's molotoves. And of course, the memory of victims who went to work this morning to work and live their family and at night ended up in the morgue. Because there were some who, for their own ideological insanity, decided to make Athens a battlefield and, of course, to realize that so many years after the terrible killers have not been arrested even, terrible realization that so many years after, the historical buildings that have been burnt have not yet worked. So if we really want to understand why we are talking, because, as the people say, 'a picture is worth as much as a thousand words', I think that the image of the burning Marfin and the burning movies 'NUTS' and 'NUTS' is what we are talking about today. Anyone who does not understand will start talking about democratic rights, about freedoms, about persecuted by the police and about all these extremes - not to describe them differently - that we have heard again about junta. Unfortunately, however, the angry reaction of many of you and, more generally, of some in Greece who were spoiled not to apply self-evidently, obliges me not to say it painlessly. Because once he dared to smell that self-evident, the well-known industry of ideological terrorism recharged the machines. And you know why you're doing this? Why do you unfortunately close your eye on the assholes? You are afraid to say a word against them, if there is a problem with the so-called 'children'. Perhaps your good friends, as I mentioned to you, Mr Ragosi, and to the committees too, may be annoyed. That's the truth you're trying to snoop, but you can't hide it. The president of the PHSY reported it to you the other day. Ladies and gentlemen, when the police dared to do a public meeting in the Exarch Square in June 2017, do you know what happened? Bad mess. Not only did you ban them, not only did you disguise them as a threat to laws, regulations, presidential decrees, fragmentation against the principle of 171 of the Criminal Code, and other relevant provisions of the Penal Code, as stated in the document and the decision of the Police Director of Attica - listen, you threatened police officers to break up against the principle - but you tried to bring them into line, that they were not interested in security and social peace. That's what your Minister said then in an interview. You told those who give and their soul for safety in adverse circumstances and situations that they are not interested in safety and that they had to go somewhere else to make the course. And who demanded that? Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what collectives they demanded. The Open Convention against Police Occupation, the Solidarity Assembly in the fight of detainees and the Anarchist Confederacy. And of course I don't have to tell you what followed. At night, the Exarches became a mess, they were burned. So I put it to you in the Minutes to remember all this. [[At this point the Member, Mr Konstantinos Karagkounis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what is the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition? Don't bother the 'childs' not to bother the so-called jerks. And don't tell me again, my dear rapporteur, that the New Democracy in one year has done nothing, because in Exarchia it's not the unbaptized one you've left, in Exarchia there are no public buildings and in Exarchia there are no people who do anything they want to do anymore. Of course - and it is true - that is and was mentioned earlier by my fellow Members - they reminded us yesterday of the way in which the so-called boulders were present, by dismantling some gardiniers and by writing the word 'blue' everywhere. The difference is, ladies and gentlemen, that this government will no longer allow the mess. Like I told you the other day, after forty-five years, this party is over. It is time for the country to return to both legitimacy and regularity. So what we are talking about and the message we want to send is that the freedom of some people stops where freedom and rights of others begin and images, such as photographs of armoury, rain from stones and molotovs, burning and plundering public and private buildings, and much more the insult of physical integrity and human life - because some imagine they are ideologically self-determined saviors - with this bill will be situations that will now belong to the past. Our aim is to exercise democratic rights, demonstrate and even strongly express its views, but this will be done in accordance with rules, and it will be done with respect for individual property and human life and social peace. And because objections and objections were expressed by the Opposition that this bill hails the right to a meeting, the answer itself is given by the articles of this bill. It is precisely this purpose that serves and ensures Article 6 of the law, which obliges the state to act, so that the right to a meeting is exercised without delay. For this reason, and in paragraph 3 of Article 3, the Minister has brought about a legislative improvement and the phrase 'authorised' is now used and the term 'if the existing conditions allow it' is defined. If there is no doubt that at an spontaneous meeting that has not been designated an organiser there is any risk of prohibition. In no case, therefore, after these improvements, there is no such risk. That is why the law gives very strong procedural guarantees to any decision to ban or dismantle a meeting and after the Minister's legislative improvements, these procedural guarantees have become even stronger. For it is now necessary to prohibit the assent of the President at first instance and to dismantle the Advocate-General's assent. And because there has been criticism from all sides about paragraph 1 of Article 13 concerning the specific nature of the offence, the legal improvement that has been filed eliminates this paragraph as a whole. I think, ladies and gentlemen, - and I am referring specifically to those who so far, up to the committees and up to the plenary, have been reserved for the bill - that now there is no excuse for this bill being passed. And because I want to believe that now we can have a minimum of understanding, after the brave changes that the Minister has brought, and not to throw the ball at the platform, reports and graphics about juntas and so on, we can discuss and agree on the specific and general issues of this bill. To discuss what this bill expresses. I think it is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, for someone to react to a piece of legislation that serves clearly and transparently and democracy and the rule of law and the rule of law and social peace and solidarity and individual and social property, and above all, ladies and gentlemen, human life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u114	The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Yiannis Ragus, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I would like a glass of water, please, because when the arguments are stopped, the vulnerability, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is beginning and one is forced to protest. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a sad day for the 3rd Hellenic Republic. It's actually a clear day for meta-memorandum re-population. Many of us have had the honour of introducing bills in this sanctuary for democracy in the past. I sincerely believe that this goes through the thought of many of us who have previously proposed bills: If the Scientific Council of Parliament for a bill had submitted to Parliament a report like this, I and all those who are aware of our responsibility, we would like the earth to open up to us. For reasons of fundamental democratic sensitivity, we would have decided to withdraw it. For you, the majority Members and for those who did not understand it, let me point out that you were called before to reject an objection of unconstitutionality in defending a draft law before the changes made by the government, which obey what we have been telling you at the first moment, namely the reason for the unconstitutionality of the bill, that is to say, the government made you reject the objection of unconstitutionality and then made the changes imposed by the Scientific Council, precisely because it is unconstitutional of the bill. The right to participate in democratic gatherings, the right to meet, in fact, what are they, dear colleagues? It is the right of many to have voices, to be able to speak. It is the right of many to think out loud, to complain, to claim, to dream, to hope. This right is not only an individual right. It's a political right, too. Political rights in Greece, only in abnormal periods for democracy, were removed from the Greeks and Greeks. By criminalising the exercise of the right to assembly, in fact, you are not just criminalising the free participation of democratic gatherings, but you are criminalising something deeper and more materialistic about democracy and its nature: you are criminalizing the free expression of citizens, because as we have proved and documented, and not just we and other anti-population parties, you are moving forward in the deaths of the dead junta, which were indeed dead, because there has been no government since 1974 and after that there has been no idea of applying them, but you are resurrecting them because you are normally copying them. To see how far you go from today's reality and return to the bad past for democracy and the country, it is enough to think that you are going and institutionalising a series of provisions in 2020 that were undemocratic when the junta of the colonists was introduced in 1971, but they are literally out of reality in the online era. There will be a mobilisation of young people to protect the environment against climate change. It'll be organized through the internet. He won't have an organizer, so he won't be announcing the police. You're making it with the bill you're bringing illegally and asking the police to dismantle it, and anyone considered to be responsible for organising such online mobilisation will lead him to prison. If this does not lead to your self-pity, to those who suggest and drive the Greek society, to the Greek police and to the Greek legal order based on this monstrosity, then I don't think you need to think about another characterisation. Because there is also talk of changes, none of the fundamental provisions of the law of the junta you carried to the municipal language have changed. You have changed - before those we have not seen - only two forecasts which, in turn, led to the ridicule of whoever was trying to implement this bill. This infamous, able to twenty, thirty, forty, fifty thousand civilian workers, unemployed, pensioners, young people, private employees, civil servants to make a move, a gathering, and because they have not announced an organiser and because they were considered to have all these issues in your bill, you led to a one-year imprisonment of all these people. Or the other with the spontaneous gatherings you were saying in the original version - and you were the defender, ladies and gentlemen of the majority - that a gathering that will take place after a football team that won the championship is, in the first place, illegal. Look, it is not in any way going to change the daily lives of the citizens for the better. You're gonna make it worse, because this bill since it's become law will work as a provocator, because it does, as it turns out by your insistence, you do your utmost to bring to Greece, especially to Athens, the yellow vests of France and Paris. You do your utmost to bring back to the consciousness of the many hate for Greek and Greek police officers. You put them across from the workers, from the unemployed, from the retired, from the young. Do your utmost to revive their junta ranger. That is why, for what happens after this bill was passed, you will be to blame, because there is no doubt that the courses will be increased instead of reducing, because you have now given more reason to support democracy, the democratic rule and the constitution of the country to the Greeks, the Greeks, to mobilize many, to protest. And that is not another reason why we would like to make a slow demand for the abolition of this huntonom, which of course has two names, Mitsotakis - Chrysochoidis, in violation of the Constitution - we have established it beforehand - which provides that the right to assembly and meeting is not subject to the authorisation of the police is not subject to preventive control. What can we do? The Constitution states that. If you wanted at the end - let us make a proposal to revise the Constitution on Article 11. In fact, the Constitution grants this right without any precondition for citizens and the notification is legitimate. What is not legitimate, what is unconstitutional is the non-disclosure to lead to the ban and the police's obligation to dissolve a concentration. That's the anti-constitutional. It's not the unconstitutional notification. It's the prediction that if no notification has been made, the police will be obliged to dismantle a gathering. But when you actually make the police as the principle of licensing a democratic concentration, you are basically making it the boss of Greeks and Greeks. First, what you're doing is exactly what the junta did. In the legislative decree of the junta, this is the central philosophy, that was the core, that no Greeks and no Greeks can gather unless they get permission from the police. That's what institutionalizes this bill. Speaking of the licensing authority of the Greek Police, let's see a little, dear and dear colleagues, what is and what the Greek Police is at leadership level. Is the Greek Police an independent authority? Is the Greek Police, in particular its leadership at both central and regional level, not a worthwhile, democratic, objectively selected leadership? With party pogrom you started your term of office in the first days of July 2019. "Related out" all worthy officers at both central and regional level and placed the good and chosen of the Mitsotakis office and the sectoral organizations of the New Democracy. This is the Greek police. That's the part you've brought. And because we are a year later, and because we have heard Mr. Mitsotakis speak yesterday about the consistency with which you are implementing your security programme, to say that yes, there is an absolute consequence, in the partisanism, in the anxiocracy, in the appointment of Mr. Kontoleos as Head of the EEA, to the way you hired a thousand five hundred experts outside the ASP, except for all Greeks and untrained, you have left them in active action. One was arrested the other day from the Greek Train. A bunch of defects found and not only traffic, but heavy. The other had gone to ASAOE and he almost blooded the university, because he had gone with his gun and his uniform to meet his girlfriend. Special guard Mitsotakis and Chrysochoidis, untrained. And before that, the others had fun at the bars, they got busted with the bushes, they lost their guns, and their colleagues found them the next day. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The lies, indeed, if we wanted to criminalize political controversy, fall within the competence of the prosecutor. The lies you have made about Indar, which you have violated the constitutionally established family asylum, the lies you are saying here in writing and orally in a series of our questions about the incident in Michalakopoulou. All Greeks and Greek women have seen the video. Three like other bullies - probably policemen - and you talk about one. And all that to cover up the strain of the Great Maximus, who with these praetorians, because he violated the red himself, went and beat a man. What about security? Yes, we really feel very safe! Just every day in the morning when we wake up first look at whether our car is burned and then look at the burned car announcement note now established as a day-to-day reality. Not to mention the consistency of Mr Mitsotakis, that he would finish 'Ruvikon'. On 8 July he had dared to say. And the other day, the "Rubicon" threw triangles out of his office. Your aim is not to act unlawfully during a course, because all this has already been guaranteed, it has already been ensured and provided for by the new Criminal Code and the previous one. That is why it is vulgarity, historical vulgarity, and only you get into your mouth this human drama of Marfin to justify this terror and to dress up all this project, the fascinating legislative project that you have brought to the Greek Parliament. It is also not your goal to end the protests of the fifty people, because they have finished with the excessive suffering they may cause, because they are legally placed, with the 2013 Presidential Decree, on the sidewalk. What's your goal? One is to enter into criminal law a new kind of criminal, the protester. But who is the protester, ladies and gentlemen? The protester is no different from the Greek and Greeks who express themselves freely and who have a different view, from your own point of view, from the viewpoint of the respective government, from the point of view of the respective authority. And you make the protester, namely the Greek and Greek who freely express their opinion according to the Constitution, criminals. Why are you doing all this? Because the authoritarian model of governance is not served otherwise, Mitsotakis. That is why this bill is of strategic importance to you. It is strategic because, in fact, in order to set up and operate this authoritarian model of governance - and not the final state - they must be affected, they must harm the counterweights that democracy operates. Democracy needs both its political counterweights and its social counterweights. In other words, we need the other opinion, the opposite opinion, the different opinion, the free expression of opinion. You with the Pecha List - Mitsotakis tried to cancel the political counterweights. In fact, with the money Pecha - Mitsotakis, as you moved them, you did not attempt to campaign for the coronary. You have attempted to neutralise the other viewpoint, the view of Officer Response, the SYRIZA, the Progressive Alliance and all the other parties of the Opposition, that is, you are attempting socially with this bill: to neutralise social counterweights. And when, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 'orbanisation', yes, you are confirming us to the letter. The "orbanisation", which has been named after Hungarian extreme right-wing prime minister, is precisely in this type of choice. We are also talking about disrupting social and economic life. Allow me a little personal tone, but I cannot resist a real personal need. Dear Michalis, I will not say to Mr Karaguni who, in my opinion, had - I am sorry, Mr Karaguni, who I speak in this way, I do not want to, but you have to me since you spoke to Marfin - who was Minister at that time. I'll say something else. Do you remember, dear Michael, how much he was, talking about the disruption now of social and economic life that we have to preserve it, the public debt of the country in 2009? The country's public debt in 2009 was 127% on the Gross Domestic Product. Today the national debt has reached 180% and goes to 200%. Greece in 2009 was expelled from the markets. He couldn't borrow. Today with a multitude of public debt it borrows with the lowest interest rates in its history. Why? Because some, dear Michael, have created with whom you are sitting on the same seat at the time, at that time, at that time, that unprecedented budget deficit of 15%, went bankrupt the country and led Greece outside the markets. If we want to talk about disrupting the social and economic life of the country. And they are the same natural persons who not only created that budget deficit, but who had their Chief, when he took over President of the New Democracy, in the first speech he made at the New Democracy conference to declare proud.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u116	Are you kidding us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u117	There's no censorship. There's just a reminder of time, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u118	I think that, Mr President, you should bear that in mind beforehand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Karagunis spoke thirteen minutes. Not even his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u120	Anyway, I'm done. Mr Mitsotakis has said - and you, Mr President, have interrupted me - a proud MEP at the time and supported that government. To conclude, then, I should like to say that there is no doubt that, instead of sharing hope, prospects and advancement among Greek and Greek women, you share and give recession, unemployment, redundancies and now also prison sentences. However, since the 'no bad negligence' here, and as much as I am surprised by it, I would like to close with a positive reference, to say that I feel the need to say thank you very much, because indeed with this piece of legislation brought by Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Chrysochidis in the House, this unconstitutional and anti-democratic legislation, they actually mirror the deepest thoughts, the deepest ideological principles, they mirror what they have in their home world. It is a piece of legislation that actually leads to what we say 'you are the ones'. Despite the expensive media makeups that have been systematically falling on you in recent months and in recent years, it is indeed a piece of legislation that confirms that, whatever you pay in the media, the truth is one, that you are a doll out thanks to the media, but from the means of plague and on the level of principles and in the level of values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, listen to a proposal I would like to see both Mr Voutsi's experience and wisdom. As I told you, at the Conference of Presidents, the President accepted the request for opposition to be in two meetings. The two meetings don't change, they'll stay two. However, eighty-eight Members have already written. You realise that today's list will be exhausted and tomorrow another list will be opened, based on the Presidents' decision, until 3.00 p.m. and it will be in the House and the one who will be waiting for him to be succeeded. Mr. Janakopoulos made me a practical suggestion. I have informed the President of Parliament and accepts it, but only in the event of unanimity, because it needs approval of the House. The proposal is to go to a single debate on the principle, articles and amendments in two days' time, so that today at a reasonable time, around 12 noon, we can close today's sitting. There is no need for another list for tomorrow, there is still a list for tomorrow. And since colleagues knew that it would be two registrations and that the registration was over, now that Mr Ragousse has come down, the proposal is that we should give colleagues the right to conclude Mr Kamines, so that the list should be completed and there should be no reasonable complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u123	Yeah. From one, two minutes each with a 'yes' or 'no' to the proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u124	I just want thirty seconds. I told you that it was a practical proposal that we should not be able to discuss today by 3 a.m. and there is a procedure which Parliament does not honour, that Members should speak and that the chairs should be empty underneath. At the same time there is a practical problem with this proposal. There are some colleagues who think that they will reopen a list tomorrow, perhaps they have not come and want to pass their card tomorrow morning on the new list. I suggest we keep the list open until the end of the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u125	Okay, instead of the third person I said, you say until the speakers are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u126	And, if possible, allow them to register...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u127	The practical problem, once there is a unanimous decision, is resolved. And tomorrow it'll be a little out of regulation, don't worry. I myself, as President-in-Office, accept, since it is a unanimous decision, that we should go to the sixth speaker today for a right to register and so much if a colleague arrives tomorrow, that the world is not broken, that he will enter the end of the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u128	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u129	Do we have a unanimous decision? Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u131	Here you go, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u132	We agree with the proposal. I imagine you mean that tomorrow the contributions to the articles will normally be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u133	The rapporteurs, generalists and speakers hold their right to tomorrow. That goes without saying, I didn't even have to put it in consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u134	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u135	So it's known how we're going. The list is then uniform until the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u136	Mr. President, will you open up the system?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u137	By the time Mr. Kamines finishes, he'll open. And after we go to the sixth speaker, don't worry, you have time to sign up. Mr. Kamin, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Already in the First Review House in '75- Parliament, which worked out the draft Constitution and finally voted in favour of the 1975 Constitution, the article on meetings had caused very great controversy. Let me just remind you that the Government's draft Constitution was then already in the first paragraph of the article: the Greeks have the right to meet quietly and simply as the law defines or is subject to the law in the first paragraph. The opposition fought a great deal. There was then in the House and a great nature, a great lawyer, who deserves to be reminded today, George V. Magakis, who, when he saw that the judge could no longer be assured on the matter of the prohibition laid down in Article 2, imposed the prohibition of the police authority to be justified and passed this provision in the Constitution. It went on to explain why there could not be a judge beforehand, at least afterward made sure that the judge could intervene to check whether there is a reasoning and whether it is specific and thorough. Let me also remind you that at the time PASOK submitted a draft constitution. He responsiblely tried to improve the setting of meetings. And he then predicted this on the matter of prohibition: the meetings in the field, he said the draft, may be limited or forbidden by the special justified decision of the public prosecutor. He acted with great responsibility at that time, the PASOK was not restricted to denounce. It just made a correction, very important. He had the prosecutor interfered with the ban. That is why I believe that today the attitude of the Change Movement is a attitude of great responsibility and comes to be associated with the great tradition of his generator, the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement. It's a great vindication of PASOK. And why am I saying that? I say this because all the main proposals we have put forward, eventually because of their legal nature, have been passed into the bill. Perhaps not all of us, as we would like and will talk more thoroughly in the articles, but some basic guarantees. The first: While the government plan that came here predicted that only the police authority, alone, can prohibit, we imposed that the President-in-Office's decision should also exist. But the step you're taking was a meteor. Here we want and continue to seek assent, not if twenty-four hours have elapsed, to be regarded as having been given the opinion of the President first. We also imposed something very important on the issue of the dissolution of a meeting under way and went to violence: that the prosecutor and the prosecutor should decide on dismantling and not on their own, as the police would have anticipated in the government plan, informing the prosecutor, because before the prosecutor the organiser of the meeting can also exercise the right to be heard and to develop his views. The third: In an unfortunate way you have tried to reintroduce the violation of the principle of covetousness. The code that provided for it in 1952 and he had taken it from the Maurer Criminal Code of 1834, "strongness against the principle". While the Criminal Code was abolished last year, Article 171 was abolished especially for anticipation, you tried to reintroduce it and that was unacceptable. What was foreseen by'strongness against principle'? It provided that the person involved in a banned protest or who, although legally ordered to dismantle a demonstration, is not punished by imprisonment. At the spontaneous meeting, there basically the wording that existed was as if it were trying to introduce the preventive system of police leave. He said'may be allowed'. This is, of course, unacceptable, and that is why the 'can' has left the provision. In civil responsibility - Mr Kastanides stressed it in committee, and today we insisted on it and did well to bring the provision of reformed, as you bring it - one cannot in a democracy be blamed for criminal or even civil actions by others. As we have said, there cannot be power in a democracy without responsibility, but there can be no responsibility without the respective authority. For third-party acts, therefore, responsibility is incomprehensible. The right to a meeting is a two-faced right, it is a two-faced right. Why? Because, on the one hand, it is an individual right, so it demands abstention of state power when it is exercised, but on the other hand it is a political right, it is a collective manifestation of the right to expression and that is why the right of the Constitution should have been regulated all these years. Why? Because as every right incorporates some power and in democracy every power must be exercised with responsibility. There is, of course, the right to the meeting. There are rights of third parties too. There is the right of third parties to freedom of use, access to public space, there is the right of the businessmen of the centre to operate their businesses and not to close for fleas. There is the right of third parties to plan their lives, and that is why it is absolutely legitimate to have an information obligation and to make it public that there will be a course or a gathering at the spot, so that everyone can plan their lives, know that if he goes down to the center of Athens, for example, he will not be able to access his car. So it is today a great day of responsibility for the Change Movement. The Change Movement comes and is linked to its tradition. Just as the PASOK did in 1975, which submitted a draft, attempting to improve the Government's draft Constitution, so we have today made our proposals and consider it to be a great achievement that important elements have been accepted. You will allow me to conclude by saying that our proposals are directly inspired by the proposal for a law that was drafted on behalf of the Municipality of Athens, then a committee of approved law, chaired by the Honorary Vice-President of the Council of State, Michael Vrodakis, with the participation of prominent professors such as Nikos Alivizatos, Antonis Manitakis, Yiannis Ktistakis and my legal adviser then Thanasis Tsiras. We had taken care, and then there would be a simple opinion of the mayor, which shocks many. I would remind you that in many states in the United States the mayor's authority is to ban a meeting. A mayor has a responsibility for what's going on in his town. So it is absolutely legitimate and it is a step towards a local government that is truly responsible for the fact that we are finally interfering with the mayors' opinion in the exercise of the right. One day we have to decide in this place that the mayor must be the master in his town and that will only be if we have a local government really weaned by the central authority. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr Kamine, for keeping time. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. We also want to see Stepma join with the dozens of clubs, federations, clubs, mass bodies of the People's Movement and Youth, with the people of science, art, culture, even people from the Security Body who, all these days, express their unequivocal condemnation of the government's indisputable bill and seek immediate withdrawal. All the above, representing thousands of other workers, are the most eminent proof that the government's bill not only is not a requirement of society, as the government falsely claims, but is already doomed to popular consciences, even if it is finally passed by Parliament. Also, all of these declare determined not to put their voices on the plaster, as today’s bill seeks to do. It is a bill of prohibitions, threats, authoritarianism, ideological terrorism, which, like all the bills of this prey, is based on lies and pretexts. These lies have been heard by the government for days, the very same lies have been heard by the various media parrots of the big businessmen, who of course did not expect this bill to express their hatred of popular mobilisations and claims. Besides, this bill is an order of the same, it's the order of the chapter, it's the order of BSE, the big dealers, the big-time owners, who think that's how they can solve the class struggle. What are these pretexts on which the government is seeking to support this legislative monstrous system? Pretext - a lie number 1: The bill, you say, comes to order in the few-minded gatherings that afflict the world, and it does not concern large-scale gatherings. When is this all said about suffering? On the days when the patience of thousands of people and workers of Athens is tested by the great grief, i.e. by the fragmentation of the center of Athens decided by the municipal authority, not of course to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants, but to upgrade the tourist product for the sake of the great hoteliers and great merchants. This is the real suffering in the center of Athens, especially these days. In addition, it is your policy, it is poverty, it is unemployment, it is the deterioration of social services, it is the deterioration of health, education and the environment. Worship is inhuman cities, suffering is bad transport. That's a pain. So, what's the truth about the bill? That the bill, with the possibility of generalised bans, with the threat of persecution for the organizers, which will be legally forced to charge others' actions, but also with the vagueness of its regulations, which will be interpreted every time by the police, the port and the various other mechanisms of repression, actually bans all popular mobilisation and especially the mass media. It's just, what are you doing? Follow the well-known puppet tactic, put forward a reasonable argument, that it is supposedly not possible for fifty people to close down central roads, in order to legalise regulations which, however, have general and general application. We also want to respond once again to a question raised in the debate, namely that it is not possible for certain minorities to be able to operate at the expense of the many. And who do they say that? You say it, you legislate, while you are a minority of the Greek people. And you're talking about minorities. This issue of minorities has been raised again. When? When SYRIZA demanded the same ones they demand and today's bill brought his own law to 50+1, putting new obstacles to the right to strike. We, as you know, as a JRC, are the first to want and fight in practice so that there can be as many struggles as possible and overcome people and fear and employers' terrorism and state terrorism and prejudices and all that. But tell us, you who reproduce the theory of minorities and majorities, a fight - one! - from the birth of the labour movement, which at least at the beginning of attracting or mobilizing the majority of those concerned or those who ultimately won from this struggle. There's no one. Nobody! While, on the contrary, there are countless matches that could have been initially made by a few hundred and finally by this race to win many thousands on a course. Therefore, all this debate, which takes out the 'democrat' and judges the law of a fight in terms of narrow numerical terms, is a debate from the evil one and it is also a debate from a pretext hostile to any popular mobilisation. Lie number 2: "Concentrations", you say, "damage the traffic in shops and destroy the owners". As in the hours or days when there are no concentrations, the world turns into tails for who will first conspiracy. What's the truth here? Two hundred thousand small businesses put a padlock in the five years 2011-2016 and not due to mobilisation. They closed down because of the policy implemented by all governments, the memorandum policies, due to tax evasion, in order to support large chains in the field of trade, as they also closed down because of poverty and the poverty of the people. Just because they closed down for all these reasons, they also closed down in areas, districts, streets that are neither concentration nor demonstrations. And many times on the road the professionals you all destroyed with your policy were also found. Lie number 3: "With the bill," you say, "we want to have a concentration notification, to know who organises what and so on." Isn't that done to a large extent today? Don't the unions, clubs, other mass operators to authorities, municipalities, time and place of concentration, unless there's something extraordinary and unforeseen? And these unions, do they not have presidents, do they have boards, do they not have members, which also assume responsibility for these mergers? So why are you doing this? You do, on the one hand, to include as an element of this concentration the purpose, that is, the content of the concentration, an ideological and political objective, setting the "territory" to come the state on a course and determine whether or not a concentration can be made on the basis of the purpose. On the other hand, you are doing so, to bring the organizer's institution and on the other hand, and on the other hand, to establish all the legislative abstention you call "public responsibility of the organizer", according to which for actions of various provocators, who are never founded, never caught and in direct relation to state and state mechanisms, you will wrap up in a glue of pioneers' paper, trade unionists, drag them into court, you will force them into long courtrooms and, even if they are vindicated, you will have submitted them to an incredible moral, political and economic hardship. This does not change with the legislative improvement you have made in Article 13. And here is the most outrageous of all the arguments you are using. It is the effort you have been doing, not now, for years now, to associate or even yield to the popular mobilisations and the gatherings of prevocaots, which have nothing to do with the organized folk movement, what Mr Karagunis has done, that is to say, a moment ago, as a matter of fact, associating the tragic deaths in Marfin with the mobilisations of that period, without of course saying why the perpetrators have not been arrested all these years. You were government, Mr. Karaguni, you, PASOK, SYRIZA. Why, not just in Marfin, but elsewhere, have the perpetrators not been arrested all these years? Now what are you doing? You're taking one more step further. What's that? Incorporating all these theories of reactivation and ideology of violence. These are not our inventions. These phrases are contained in the text of the bill in Article 19, which, in our opinion, is the ideological and political core of this bill, in fact by providing for the creation of a Directorate for Prevention of Violence, with the aim, as you say, of preventing various forms of violence, in which radicalism is conscious of by other existing forms of violence, such as family violence, intra-School violence, etc. It will also promote - it says - this committee, this address, and the dislocation. We're asking again. Can you explain to us what "decentralisation" means? This policy is an obsession, an originality, of the New Democracy? New Democracy is the most fanatical and genuine supporter of this policy. However, criminalisation and the targeting of radicalism are the official policy of the European Union, which, for years now, in the name of the fight against terrorism, is constantly expanding its content with all radical ideology and practice, confronting radicalisation as a key source of so-called 'terrorism'. On the basis of this framework, criminalisation of labour, popular movements, trade unions, communist parties is promoted in a number of countries and goes on to say. However, because the government says that these are excesses for radicalisation, let us see how the European Union itself defines radicalisation in its official texts. He says, "The three most widespread forms of radicalized thinking in modern Europe are far-right thinking, radicalised Islam and the left-wing thinking." In the same bag, the fascists, fanatical Islamics and those who are struggling for the radical overthrow of the present system. What else does he say? "The supporters of radicalized left-wing ideologies reject the capitalist values, which they consider to be the main cause of social inequality. They have extremely criticised the multinational military and economic regulation, such as NATO and the International Monetary Fund. They are opposed to the increasing privatisation of education, health, transport, etc.’. This is what the European Union defines in its official texts as radicalism. You don't know them? You know them, you're just pretending to be the dead bug, because you're actually making the need for esteem. Because you know that Greece is not Belgium, it is not Luxembourg, but in Greece there is a movement, there are historical memories, there is a Communist Party and you will not be able to end all this easily. This policy has been served by all of you. It was only six months ago that the European Union officially recorded the popular protests as a risk to the security of the European Union. And what did the MEPs of the other parties vote on this? New Democracy and KINAL voted in favour, SYRIZA voted white, neither cold nor hot. In 2016, on SYRIZA, a guide was issued by the Headquarters of EL.AS, a State Security Directorate, entitled “Actions against radicalisation”, co-financed by the European Union and the State budget. So, here, water in the mill of this reactionary theory and this reactionary framework you have all shot, and SYRIZA, with the peculiarities that he has voted for those who are involved in the mobilisations against auctions, for the law on the strike, with your repeated refusal on the JRC's proposal to abolish terrorists and so on. So here we are talking about a modern, ideological, repressive mechanism, which will intervene from schools, as you say, anywhere else and which is intended to tackle, prevent anyone who is fighting, questioning, clashes with today's capital dictatorship. Because that is the real meaning of radicalism and radical action. I shall conclude, Mr President - and I will see you in the debate on the articles - hereafter. The bill introduces provocative restrictions on the right to concentration, as we have said, even those who put the civil constitution itself. And the changes made, the legislative improvements made, at the previous meeting and today, do not change the substance of the bill. Just what are you doing? Create a fig sheet, which is neither a fig sheet, to facilitate and give the alibi to the Change Movement to vote on this bill. All the basics remain and I say again that the most essential is the civil responsibility of the organiser, where, once again, with the legislative improvement you are doing, these people must go to the courts and have the same weight of proof of damage done by various other provocators. It is an article on institutionalisation and social automation and provocacia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Gioka, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u142	I shall conclude, Mr President. What does this bill prove? It shows that anti-grassroots policy will continue, that the attack will continue, that you are afraid of popular intervention and mobilisation, and that is why you are taking preventive measures to prevent repression and ideological repression and manipulation. We tell you that history is full of such laws, laws - vampires, laws - zombies, which were adopted, but they were actually canceled by the struggles of the people and the class struggle. That will once again be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u143	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution Mr. Antonios Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we have had an hour and a half today for something which is self-evident. Mr Ragus, SYRIZA's rapporteur, Officerial Responsibility, and spoke of an anti-constitutional piece of legislation. But Article 11, invoking, Mr Ragosi, in paragraph 2, says: 'Only public outdoor meetings may be attended by the police. Outdoor meetings may be prohibited, by reasoned decision of the police authority, in general, if, as a result of the serious public security threat, in a certain area, there is a serious disturbance in socio-economic life as defined in the law.’. So where is unconstitutionality? And I won't make neither the devil's lawyer nor the government's lawyer. But where is that unconstitutionality? Of course it's not unconstitutional. The police have a reason to take a stand. We have reached a "badification" of social life, the economic life of the place. I didn't understand you, weren't you a government in 2010? You weren't a sub-minister then? SYRIZA five years didn't rule? Even the Communist Party of Greece - which is not one of its representatives here to hear them - was not so hot, even though it applies the law. The law brought by the government is applied primarily by the Communist Party of Greece. There is no question of this: and there is an organization and there is also protection of the environment and there is no damage and the place is a hit and their mission ends nicely and nicely. But I did not see them so warmly when SYRIZA was voted on by you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, this oppressed New Democracy then, according to the treacherous Prespecies Agreement, rather than chasing the people who went out to the rally. Or forget what happened in Serres, we forget about what happened in all the cities, how the rally was dismantled? Well, then, gentlemen of the JRC, you did not make an announcement. Now, to your votes, and you - logically, of all - say something about you. Mr Ragossi, I would like to ask you something. Don't go, so you can answer me if you want. Today we have had a "scotch war" between Mr Ragosi and Mr Chryssohoid. You're leaving. Aren't you telling me, for the first time, that when a government's changed, the military beheads become the military or the police? So I'll tell you something to figure out what was going on. As soon as the government of Mitsotakis, the forgiver, took over the PASOK in 1993, I was found, Mr. Minister, Commander of the Special Platform of the Air Force Instruments VIP. Sunday's election took place this evening. I'm going on Monday morning and what do I see on the desk? 'If he is missing, in Kalpaki'. If he's gone. This has been done, and it will obviously be done in certain positions. Have we ever heard of these things here for the first time? Are you coming here to tell us Chalima's fairy tale? So it was no longer twenty-four hours since we told you here, from this Stepma, and the President, Mr. Velopoulos, said so a week ago, that "punishment is suffering the misconduct". The gartiniers and some pots have been destroyed there - of course, of course, golden pots - of the 'great walk', Mr Levane, who know how much I appreciate you. A long walk, a large fairy tale, built nine hundred meters of bicycle road. So I'm staying in the Netherlands, I'm gonna take my bike to the shoulder, get to Omonia, ride and come to the Constitution. I'll go back and then I'll take it back to the shoulder. These fairy tales you sell, not you, the municipality. You, of course, said nothing like government. We're spending money. The ETUC refused the programme. So the Greek people will pay for this, 550 euros for the wardrobe and 5,700 euros for the bench. With 5,700 we buy a small apartment in Hive. If you want, I'll take you to see how many apartments they were with 5,700. That's right, Minister. At the time of crisis, 5,700 did. SYRIZA, who has now returned to the anarchist-autonomous style, spoke about the poverty of the Greek people. Mr Ragosisi - it is not here - that you were not the Deputy Prime Minister - and Mr Chrysochidis were, together, partners - when you put us in the International Monetary Fund? Who put us in the International Monetary Fund? We, the Greek Solution? The New Democracy then called 'no to the International Monetary Fund'. Do you remember, Mr. Lebanese? Then you signed the memos, one after the other comes. These SYRIZA whisperers are coming, they also signed these memos. And then the Greek people are dying. How can the Greek people not die, with so many memorials you've loaded him with? And there's another memorial in the back now, which you're gonna load with the measures you take. You know, we're all on the way. I'm so sorry. I'll tell you here, don't go away. Come see the faces of the employees of the Parliament's cafeteria and the restaurant. Half the work, half the money. Here, next to you. Those with the restaurant and cafeteria are forced to say half a day will work three days a week and three days a week. Yeah, isn't that right? That's right. Get out here and see them. Do you remember when we walked in here what happy faces we were seeing? Now we're seeing all of them pussies. Get out. Ask your brothers, your families, your women working in the private sector, your children. We have the 'SURE' programme, which Germany has invented. This programme is currently being implemented with EUR 1.9 billion by the end of September. Since the beginning of October, what are we going to do? Half the work, then. Half the money. That's what people need to know. And now we're coming to the protests. Of course there will be demonstrations. Mr Raguss spoke - he has his honour today, because he cannot hear the end of the absurdity here constantly and the Greek people listen to it - and he said that 'Today is a clear day for democracy'. Why is this a clear day for democracy? Because so far the n.d. 974/1971 of George Papadopoulou did not use SYRIZA? When Obama came, he did not say "the gathering is forbidden, the meeting on the streets, on the roads" etc.Huh? Read n.d. 974 Article 4, see what it says about a road ban, etc. Didn't they pick up the cars with the cranes? Wasn't the traffic banned? What kind of fairy tales are you selling here? Instead of sitting together and seeing where one's freedom ends and one's starting to have a connection, nice, nice, not being destroyed, not breaking, not burning, not making Marfin. They burned people, because some scumbags threw the molotovs in a closed space. So where are we going to talk about these things? The Communist Party, Mr. Gioka, what has she done for Marfin? Tell me, please, very much. Tell me now! Accuse those who burned people!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u145	Do we rule?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u146	No, you don't. Did I tell you you're in charge, Mr. Gioka? But I want you to beside us. The voice of reason, we must be angry. Because we, as a Greek Solution, say there is no ideology for this thing. We are people, we are Greek, for all Greek women and all Greeks, for all our children. We cannot see these and come here playing the theater of absurdity, Mr Ragus, Mr PASOK - Mr Chrysochoidis - PASOK - and now by other moments they are crumbling. Mr. Chrysochoids sits there. What's he gonna do? It's government, it made a law. I didn't say you weren't trying. Let me tell you something else, Minister. It's in honor of you. We have asked for the three things to be done, up to Article 13, for the name of the organizer, which was unacceptable. For those who broke and raped would have them in the unpredictable and would only catch the one who was the organizer, who would obviously not be able to control ten thousand nomadic or a thousand or a thousand five hundred or two thousand. So the court would say he wasn't responsible. Of course, he wasn't responsible because he was ahead. He couldn't control what's going on back. So he's innocent. No one will be arrested. The other guy tells you I don't care, I'm gonna break, I'm gonna cry, and the other one's gonna be the one to blame, and they're gonna arrest someone else. So what do we do? We've got the known strangers, the bollocks, the anarchists, as someone wants to tell them, the para-states in many cases, unfortunately. And that's a matter that your ministry needs to look into, because he can see it. He knows who they are. He knows who the jerks are, the so-called ‘unknown strangers’. After all, they would not be called ‘unknown strangers’. They would be called 'unknown'. Why do we call them 'unknown strangers'? So you know them. Let's come to legislation. What we want you to do, Minister, is that in fact, when there is a demonstration, a concentration of a social group, there cannot be another group, the "ANTIFA" for example, and to gather to one kilometre, in two kilometres. These, gentlemen of SYRIZA, aren't we supposed to solve them? But you don't say how. The way he's missing. And I'm not talking, Mr. Gioka, about the JRC, because you're covered by the law. The law, as it has been brought, applies only by you. Shouldn't you, though, come and say as a Communist Party that the people who will be arrested, those assholes, these para-states, should be punished strictly? Well, they'd better expect it than healing it. We don't want a deterrent, do we? Don't we want a deterrence? How's this thing gonna end? When someone will know that if I'm arrested, I might not be arrested, I'll be lucky, I'll pay for the damage, I'll restore the damage, and I'll get in two or three years. And I told you again and I insist, not that he enters here, in the playground of Korydallus. To enter Domokos, there in prison the tough ones. Where, if he comes in for two years, then he will say "damage from me, children". Mr. Economou, that's the way it is. You know that very well. Because he's going to catch walls there in Domokos. So that's what we need to see. And I'm saying it in quotes, so I can be understood. Because many may not understand me and say that Mylonakis says things. So we have a bill you've covered the Greek Solution with, that's the truth. You have brought some of the remarks we have made. However, what we are telling you, Mr Ministers, about impunity or the punishments - a mess - is that those who are being arrested for violence, attacks on other protesters, on molotovs flying, for the burning of shops, for the breaking of windows must be very strict. Only in this way will we prevent those crimes that are committed. That is what we believe, and that is what we have stressed from the outset. Another thing I would like to say is that this 'big walk', gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr Bakoyannis, will pay him very expensively. The lines have already faded. You made a gray, green and orange. The colors of the flag of Germany you made down. That's what you got, you made it, and, if you see it from above, you'll see the colors. You've got a lot of wardrobes. Have you ever seen, Mr. Carraguni, that accurate? And as far as plants are concerned, the Municipality of Athens has nurseries. Why did you buy 400 euros of these ornamental plants? What for? Is there a reason? That is, every cardinal of 550 euros and 400 euros, a thousand. Here came the other one, the vandal, and he broke it, he threw it away. A bench says 5,700. What's that bench? Is that gold bench? What's that thing? Where did you get these written? Money from here, money from there. The world dies, the world is hungry, and you spend the "big walk", the "big story". That's what the world needs! Let a nice university destroy it and, to get through here and go to Lower Patisia, we need forty minutes, which we need fifteen minutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. We call on you once again - as a whole - to speak a lot of people today - to stop the absurds in order to make sense. If the logic prevails, we will legislate very well for Greek and Greek. We must all take this into account. And he tells you, a man who has nothing to gain from. I wasn't even a politician yesterday, and tomorrow I don't know if I'm gonna be a politician. But, coming into this House with a party - yesterday we all had the birthday - ten nomadics - nine plus the President - we proved what we are. And I will say to Mr Lebanese, to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, who, indirectly, admitted, but clearly, with clear reason, that we are one of the best parliamentary groups, most disciplined, serious, with proposals. We will do what we will do until we get out of here is call on the government to legislate in the interests of Greek and Greek. We don't care what happens elsewhere. In Germany there is another law. In Sweden, as it has heard before, the law is even harder. They come in a couple of days ago and pick up those who are riots. So they won't let them into the protests. There is Germany, there is Spain, which is more stringent the law. We don't want senseless things. Can the voice of reason prevail? Four years until the elections are held - I don't know when elections will be held, we say 2023 - you will hear proposals from us. We will properly denounce and creatively make proposals for you. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So, once again, we call on the government. The bill moved in the right direction, although at first it was out of the water. He got into a more serious context. He heard three of our four proposals. And it wasn't just ours. And the Change Movement made suggestions and other parties. But what we are interested in is that all of Parliament, all of us in this House, should be severed up for those who are vandals, are six and, if you like, are professionally, many times, destructive, are people who have an instinct, obviously. They don't care about each other's property or the other's living. The other one dies, and let's laugh. Because that's what they do. They won't win anything else. We therefore call on you to tighten the penalties for those who do the disasters, pay with their own property and go to jail without a suspensive effect. You will see that in a reasonable time no vandalism will take place. One cannot forbid protests. The Constitution is very clear. Of course there has to be a prosecutor. There was a placement in it. Unsolved. Of course there must be serious and proper policing, as there is. They're trying to get the cops. Minister, the Greek Solution will vote positively in this bill. Despite all the complaints we have made, we have seen that you are quite satisfied with our requests in the right direction. And once again, this last one don't forget: what we do, to do it in favour of the interests of all Greeks and all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u147	The reason for this is the special speaker of Mera25, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group will then be given the floor, Mr Velopoulos. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I have repeated many times at committee meetings, this bill is part of the overall ideological identity and the strategy of the government, which is now trying to enjoy the impressions. You started with the doctrine of "law and order" and now go a step further, creating an internally invisible enemy, which, in essence, you consider to be the representative of each protester, every citizen who comes to protest. So in this way you intimidate the protesters, target them, and make them even more afraid. Let us not repeat that, in essence, any violent phenomena in the demonstrations are the result of the total failure and operational fiasco of police officers, which, precisely from a lack of education and from the political orders they receive, cannot, in fact, safeguard, within the limits of legality and the Constitution, the demonstrations. And, of course - as I said again - you know who these well-known - strangers are. The paratrooper suits you, so he lives and reigns. So you come now and instead, with the proper training of the police officers and the appropriate operational plans, to guard and protect the peaceful nature of the demonstrations, you prefer to take extreme measures, which violate the rights of many. We have mentioned the example of the 'big walk', which has caused a huge traffic problem. However, alternatives have been sought in order to limit this problem. On the contrary, you are now resorting to a protest of fifty and a hundred people in the solution of paralysing the centre, so that you can divide the citizens and turn those who do not participate in the demonstrations against those who claim their rights and self-evidently. Also, as I said again, in Vitrioli the mechanisms for tracking and arrest were extremely effective. But when we talk about demonstrations and turmoil there, unfortunately, there is no find, no possibility of arrest, no possibility to locate. That alone cannot be regarded as accidental. It's an extremely evil coincidence! So you come now with the bill and you have the organizer of the outdoor meetings to be the one who, in essence, will replace the role of the state. It is him who will not only be responsible for maintaining public order and socio-economic life at the outdoor meetings, but also the one who will be called upon to take up a genuine and moral responsibility - that is, independent of his own and of his own fault - for which unforeseen phenomena are ultimately provoked in the demonstrations, without taking into account that this is a purely institutional guarantee and an institutional role of the state itself. We didn't just tell you that. He told you and the report from the Scientific Council of the Parliament, which in particular was absolute. Any quasi or genuine objective responsibility for the organiser is unconstitutional. This provision should be rethinked and withdrawn. In all this game, you come to put the prosecutors and the judicial authorities. You work for judicial bodies, which have no such competence to ban and dismantle meetings. But what, above all, you must look at and to which you must focus and which I have repeated many times is the proper training of police officers. That is what I have asked you to do with the proposal we are making to replace this draft law. This is precisely because - and I am addressing Mr Javarra, who is not here, in relation to the institutional guarantees to which he has referred - is the best institutional guarantee to exercise the right to public meetings incompletely and within the limits of legality. It is precisely the training and preparation of the Police Corps to protect the exercise of this right in good cooperation with demonstrators. I now come to an article which I did not very much analyse in committee. I was just hinting at the previous meeting. I am referring to Article 19 of the bill, which provides for the creation of an independent anti-violence service, which will be directly subject to the Minister. You come here and you smack the whole range of social violence and you identify it with extremism, with terrorism, demonizing and perverting even the very concept of radicalism, trying to give anything radical, any radical voice, something illegal and something that, in essence, threatens public order and security. So you conclude to equate radicalization with hooliganism, with racial violence, with domestic violence. I would mention here what Professor Alexandra Koronas says: "We know from all international literature and from research, which is too many, that the phenomenon of radicalisation and others that are mentioned in the bill, such as racial violence, are linked to social inequality. In all, you go to interconnect security services with the academic community and academic research, a provision of extremely problematic, extremely dangerous and not innocent." What does Professor Koronius also say to us? It tells us that in many cases, following terrorist attacks, scientists working on these issues were invited either by research into youth or case studies with perpetrators of terrorist acts that have been imprisoned to cooperate with security services and with the police themselves, with a view to preventing and effectively playing the role of informant and profiler, to try, in other words, to contact anyone who can carry out terrorist acts or be regarded as dangerous, to create his profile and to disguise him in this way, creating certain features of people who might commit terrorist acts. So, by involving academic research with security services, what you are doing is actually to insult and turn against academic ethics, against academic authority, the independence that must govern the academic, against academic ethics and integrity. Even so, as I mentioned before, the term 'rotification' should not be identified and demonised and worked so that anything radical means dangerous to public order. Radical may also be a rheumatoid. It can be something that may be aimed at reform. It could be something innovative. Not to identify it with terrorism and violent extremism. This, however, which above all escapes you according to the foreign standards of such doctrine that you convey to Greek reality is that the phenomena of violence are legality. And it is a social prefecture, because the operative cause of these phenomena is social inequalities, which paralyse the social state, make it difficult for citizens to access health structures, reduce social rights, impoverish citizens. It is all these social inequalities, which will have a reasonable follow-up and social responses within very legitimate limits of violence. So, as you say, for the radicalisation, which you do not in any way specialize in, you are asking for the police to cooperate, and what you should do and focus is precisely to mitigate social inequalities. There are some examples - I mentioned one last time - such as the example of England, where any intervention by the police in the demonstrations is usually governed by a very well-organised operational planning and control. They are fully aware of the responsibility of the policemen and their discreet wishes. That is why there is a great deal of attention in any abuse and overcoming this discretion, because they are very well trained. On the contrary, we come to the Greek reality, where there is a presumption of the principle of legality, i.e. that police officers, when acting, always act to the limits of legality, while not looking at the substance, that there is complete opacity, complete lack of accountability and complete impunity. Bad lies, all this bill is to cover under the carpet all the features of your policy, governed by the extreme poverty of the Greek people, social marginalisation, social oppression, by the fact that the majority of citizens are going to live to the limits of poverty. We see where industrial relations have come about, especially after the coronary, which are deregulation and elastic. We have a wave of redundancies. You want, therefore, and financially impoverish citizens and fame them, intimidate them, exploit their fear, despite the fact that they will be invited to live within the limits of undignified living. So what we call upon you is that you listen to the situation in which you have led the Greek people, listen to the demands of the Greek people, lift all these deadlocks to which you lead the Greek people and leave legislation, which is moving between unconstitutional acrobatics and extreme repression. Finally, I have been informed that some of my statements at the first meeting of the committee have triggered the sensitive reflexes of some of the policemen of the Association of Central Macedonia, who have rushed to file a highly pretext and funny complaint against me. This is a clear political spiral and nothing else. It is a fact that in all the professional places, even in the area of lawyers from which I come, there are prostitutes. This does not mean that we demonize the entire body of policemen, who know how serious many of them are doing their work. But when there are prostitutes, they should be punished. They should be allowed to be set aside. We should therefore look at the opacity phenomena that exist in this body, the lack of accountability, because we are talking about matters of public order and justice. Any attempt by some to fade the opposition speech through such abusive actions and political spirals, as I said before, what I have to say to them is very simply that this attempt will not pass on to them. And of course I likewise reserve all my legitimate rights against all those responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u149	At the end of the speech of the special speaker, the list of speakers should be closed, as decided. Before the electronic system is closed, I would like to ask whether there is a colleague or a fellow Member in this House or, at any rate, in the building he wants to speak and has not said so? Nobody. Please close the system for the electronic recording of speakers. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Because Mr. Mylonakis, the MEP of the Greek Solution, spoke about the pedestrian street, I would call him a perimeter and not a pedestrian street, because the money was too much that was given. Of course, it seems that Mr. Bakoyannis is not from a village, but from a town, because the self-evident thing is not to plant summer. Summer, you never plant, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. Tell Mr. Bakoyannis, because he's from a town and he's not from a village. As well as the aesthetic of planting palm trees in Athens. Athens was created by a conflict between Athena and Poseidon. Put olives on, you guys, put olives. I think I'm the one who's got a lot of elbows. If you want, you can put bonsai on, put palm trees, okay. But a wardrobe and a bench of six grand? I don't know, like a lot of things isn't for the poor Athenians. Pliers and homeless people looking in the trash? I don't know. But because you control all the means as a party, if it was done by another mayor who belonged, say, to the KKE, to the Greek Solution, to SYRIZA, you would have smashed him like an octopus you and the media. Six grand on the bench! You'd say things. It is an unfortunate choice from the mayor's hope - and I hope you will leave it, of course - this choice. Now we're going to the most serious, constitutional. At the house of the hanged, gentlemen of SYRIZA, we're not talking rope at first. He had the unfortunate choice of Mr. Ragus making a whole report of unconstitutionality. I heard him carefully. Here, sir, the Constitution has made it elastic. With memorials, are you looking for a constitution in Greece? Without asking Greek citizens? In other words, invoke the Constitution when you have circumvented it, as a government of SYRIZA, as a government of the New Democracy and PASOK. We're talking about the theater of irrationality, about the comedian moments we live in here. When the memorials clearly violate our Constitution, when there are superior European Union directives than the Greek Constitution, you come here and apply for unconstitutionality in an effort by the government to enforce law and order. For me, unconstitutional, SYRIZA gentlemen, it's not possible for the shopkeeper to go open his shop in the morning and not know if he'll find it open. Because I'm a businessman. I'm not a civil servant, like many of you. I have a store in Hippocrates, and I'm afraid to open it when the incidents occur. For me, unconstitutional is the right to fly molotov, which is illegal act, to deprive me of the opportunity to walk on my sidewalk. I want to go to my college at the university - the student - and be afraid. Isn't there a constitution where there are special classes that break them and destroy them? So I'm telling you, it's good to talk, but it's best to think. He said Mr Ragus - excellent, excellent, I listened very carefully - to unconstitutionalism. 'Article 3', 'Article 10', 'Article 15', 'Article 45'. Mr Ragossi, you did not make the law on citizenship, which was unconstitutional in the S.H.E.Huh? Did you make him suggestions to them about the unconstitutionality of the law? So you who made a law unconstitutional, blame them. And what a law! You gave citizenship, race. Another naturalisation and another genus. I'll explain your stumbling. Because the genus is Ragosi's son, Ragosi's grandfather, Ragosi's great-grandfather, and it's not Ibrahim Ahmet Hassan's native to the genus of Ragosi. It can't be. It's incompatible. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] SYRIZA's talking about constitutionality. Of course you also brought a law to New Democracy with Mr. Theodorikos. I'll tell you in a little bit about you. You'll give fast track citizenship too. What can I tell you? I don't know. You've lost your direction. Channel competition. And he's unconstitutional and SYRIZA. I won't talk about the press. There Tsipras decided and Kotzias signed by order of others. But we beat people to the rally. Because the wood of the sieves is a democratic wood, it's a constitutional wood. The tear gas is derived from SYRIZA's article 17, paragraph 4, that SYRIZA says may tear tear gas, may draw six - year - old children and tear them out. That's hypocritical! And I won't say about the other law, the law, that cut pensions. And he's unconstitutional. Cut pensions, break pensioners. Two hundred and fifty thousand Greeks are still waiting for them to retire for a year. Our grandparents, our grandmothers, our uncles are the ones. I'm waiting for Mr. Brutsi. So here I have the unconstitutionalism in St.H.E. Mr Ragosi. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. Because we said at the hanger's house, we don't talk about rope, it's over. And what a rope, a canvascoe. It can't be done. Let's go to the rest. Long-term policy, ladies and gentlemen, and arguments for both the owners of the New Democracy and SYRIZA and PASOK, do you know what it is? One single pattern: "We are less worse than them." That's your pattern. 'What have you done?'. And they say, 'Where did you?' And this is reproduced in Greek society. And the Greek goes and votes not the best, but the one who says he's the least. That's unpleasant. That is why we have come to this, that Greece be governed by people who have never worked in their lives, have no meaning, because they have good relations with the party, and they grow from the party by young children and become party officials from the party. It has therefore led to a society dedicated to identifying the opponent's error, but not to pursuing the objective, which is to improve the situation. That's our major problem. And you have done Greece, I am unfortunately going to say, the big parties, mainly, and as you will now hear, the parties of blind voters. You have removed the criticism because, when you have no arguments, you refer to SYRIZA, gentlemen of the New Democracy. When SYRIZA has no arguments, he refers to your own mistakes. In the meantime, Mr President, I would like to express my thanks for the work carried out by the Committee on Budgets and the work carried out by the Committee on Budgets. It is all your controversy that you have nothing different to say on the substance of the matter. You're fighting about the Little Globe. You say 'the good of SYRIZA's child'. You used to call him "sheep" once. Today he became SYRIZA's lord? Mr. Kaloggitsa? The Bostopia? I ask how you invoke a guy who was once a black sheep for you? Where's the reasonable argument that this man is bad or good, as he suits us? Bad as the 'catchlands', good now he's saying for the three million. And because I want to be consistent, for me it's not the money, the $20 million spent on the channels. New Democracy is lying here because ten channels took about 5 to 6 million euros. It's a lie! It was normal money. It wasn't money. And neither unemployment nor the poverty of the Greeks are stiffened. Why would you give each of these five or six EUR 20 million to each interconnector, so you can tell me? There's a reporter who got, listen, who's a publisher and producer, ten Cash ambulances. A guy who has two websites, ten ambulances got it. We could get ten ambulances with that money and you gave it to him. But, symptomically, he's been smuggling you all day. Not you, Mr. Lebanon, the New Democracy. Lebanese all day! "Goodass"! Why, you tell me. Since things are so good for our country, give the two hundred and fifty thousand pensions to the pensioners. Give him wage increases, after he's doing all right. And I saw the other theater last night, who went to inaugurate the subway somewhere in Piraeus and thousands of people waited for him. Isn't there a crowd? Should fines not be imposed there? The only one who opens his shop and puts the 15,000 and shuts down his shop because he had ten more people? But when the Prime Minister goes "go live Mitsotakis", "go live Velopoulos", it's okay. So I tell you that everything you do is distorted. Let's go to what I say as a reality. It's a wonder to hear Koza Nostra. To listen on the one hand to pedophiles, to hear on the other hand about Kalogrische and millions of euros. Can I tell you what you're doing? The 45% of the Greek voters are masturbating, and the rest of the 55% is disgusting. When he hears from SYRIZA about pedophiles in New Democracy, when he hears from New Democracy about thieves and scams on the other hand, any party, 55% of Greeks will never vote and it is all your fault. Instead of making a serious argument in here, with arguments - we may disagree, it is not bad, but with arguments - instead of caratting that punk who used to haggle on the phones for young girls because they immediately control you, they cover it. Shame on all of us! You guys don't have one? Is that possible? I've got twenty-one years old! If I knew there was a guy like that, I don't know what I would do. And, frankly, you're covering everything. So, for paedophilia in particular: confiscation of property, life, never go out again, as well as drug trafficking - I am not saying it accidentally - to prevent this story. If you don't want to make chemical castration, there are ways! They're looking for 15-year-olds and sixteen-year-olds, and there's some people in here looking for them. Let's go to the bill, Minister. You go one step ahead while you need ten. I have said so, if you do not have strict penalties, i.e. strict penalties, nothing will happen. Here we go! But there's been a law since the junta, you guys, don't be fooled. There is no legal problem in Greece. We have the most plentiful state - there is no such thing! - That's why everyone in here is lawyers. You know what Plato said, Minister? When the state was watching be governed by doctors and lawyers, lawyers, he said it was a failed state. Look how many lawyers are in here! Find out how many doctors are! Plato said that two and a half thousand years ago, as if he knew us today! They'll start coming and forty-five and seventy-five. My uncle from the village, Stelios from Giannitsa - why am I from there, from a village there, from a rural family - where can he now understand 15, forty-five, seventy-five? That's nice to hear from the lawyer. He's doing good! He's going to the court to say that! Here we produce work and policy, we produce on the basis of arguments and, above all, the plan. The problem with the New Democracy is that you don't have a plan and you're still afraid here. Why are you afraid? I don't understand. We want to enforce law and order. Don't be afraid that businessman's going to his shop downtown, not to be afraid of the student going to his university! Tell me where the absurdity is, I don't understand. "You're a fascist, you're a Nazi, you're a pig." Why should I be a pigeon? Because I want to be quiet in my house to live? Why do you call me a punk for? Because I want there to be laws and order in Greece, so that the Greek citizen is not afraid? Because you most of you have police officers? Ask the Greek citizen if he's got cops. Many ministers and many of SYRIZA have police officers and do not fear and have them outside their homes. Ask the rest of the Greeks. I'm going to open my shop at Hippocrates 10-12, if there's episodes I don't open it, but I'm gonna pay the six employees and the other three in the afternoon, a total of nine. I'll pay them properly! You don't ask me. That's why I'm telling you that you're fearful and want the alibi of excellence. Who? The ones here that would never govern, because the factory is over, the delegation is left, and those who have ruled and done a mess. Who are you afraid of? Tell me! It is not an ideological matter, because if there was a left and it was a good left, we would have a left government all the time. Do you know what the problem is? That you have confused the ideology with the practical application of politics. You have no ideology and you apply the same to the Memorandums, you apply the same economic policy, to national issues you are the same, Prespes, North Epirus, Greek Turkish. Where do you disagree? In the little ones, where they give an entity to another argument, i.e. the episodes, the badges, the police, to squeeze in there and collide your world. Honestly, I say this with pain of soul, because at some point we're going to get out of here and go home and the point is we're going up and not four and leave work behind with suggestions and arguments. Let's go to reason. What's the government doing? It goes on to implement a law applicable to European states. That's right! Europeans, don't you say we're Europeans? We therefore copy a European law and bring it to Greece. Why is there only got to be a lot of jackass in Greece? You tell me why. If you tell me why to understand it, so as not to tell you what they do in Spain, what they do in France, what they do in Germany that I live in, which I know people. I don't want to tell you! The problem, my Minister, is that the offence is a crime. It's going to be a mess, it's going to be a couple of "selves" in front, like at night shops, they'll take them in and then they'll take them out the next day. That's what's gonna happen. Here we go! Unfortunately, you're going to fail again. I fear that you do not want to solve the problem and it is hypocritical that of the New Democracy. The vote was taken in the European Parliament 15 days ago. The Greek Solution, its MEP, submitted a law to allow the "ANTIFA" to come out of a terrorist organisation. Thirty-five MEPs signed a terrorist organization to "ANTIFA", these molotovs with guns. You didn't sign it, so I'm saying you're hypocrites. They're getting out all the means today and they're telling us about the car accident that took place - you know, Mr. Lebanon - by subway. There was an accident in Kifisia. However, no one says that both the metro and the urban transport are controlled by the superstition and what they do - which is why they do not purchase rolling stock - is controlled by the superstition. The superstition wants revenue and is interested in reduced costs, i.e. in the base and production line not getting anything, no wagons or brakes, nothing. We'll have a lot of similar accidents. This is how it happened in Britain when it was privatised by Thatcher, OSE, increased traffic accidents of 170%. I am warning you now: tell the Greek people that all of this - here is the document and I will submit it in the Minutes - that the metro is not Greek, it belongs to the superstition and the revenue goes there. Say it, why don't you say it? It's starting to come out and it says the brakes aren't working. But they don't take rolling stock and risk human lives! We will mourn victims! That's just it. Give a solution to the simples and leave the big ones for the others that will come later. Now we're going to "ERGAN" and I'm gonna close this way. I wanted to make a little personal report to Mr.... Brown - what's it called? - Blonde? I'm talking about this gentleman you have here, who Mr. Xanthos referred to my face.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u151	Blonde.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u152	I don't know what Mr. Blondie does. But I'll tell him: Personal reports and controversies I never made in my life, blonde was my best man Ioannides, the basketball coach, but I'm saying one thing. Personal reports the Greek Solution never did. Bad and market attack didn't do to anyone. But I have to say this, politically now, to Mr. Xanthos, what do you call it? - or brown. What did he do for NoVARTIS, to pay compensation for it? Did he send a fax, a letter, an out-of-court corporation to compensate Greece? He didn't do anything. Was the Guardian acquitted of the bribery case in the eleventh of 2018? You'll tell me we're not interfering with justice. Leave that, because in justice all governments, like you, intervene. You wouldn't have ministers who had relationships... [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't give up on that. You wouldn't have had ministers who had relationships with prosecutors! Let's actually go. Politics is a very serious case to make it personal. I may disagree with you personally, but I never made a personal attack on any of you. I tell you, then, personal attacks, characterizations in the Greek Solution, never unscrupulous! We all work, we have business and we make mistakes, if we make mistakes. Mr. Blonde, what does he do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u153	He's a doctor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u154	Do you have a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u155	Well done, sir, I said it before! Plato said in a state...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u157	Doctors and lawyers in the government are a failed state. Listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u158	Why are you interrupting, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u159	That's how they've learned!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u160	That's how they've learned. They love a lot of mess anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u161	Don't you realize the interruption is impossible?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u162	So I was saying ten minutes ago - when they have ears and they hear, because some don't have ears and they don't listen - that Plato said that doctors and lawyers in power are failed government and state. Read Plato, to open your eyes, because other policy today and other service provision. Understood? Service is another thing and I work and I produce wealth is another thing! It's completely different. I did not say anything about the work of anyone here, and I am making it clear and I stop here, and I have mostly referred to ideologies. I was an immigrant to Germany, like my parents for decades and you will tell me about immigrants and you will tell us far-right, because we say 'First Greece, first the Greeks'? We're not far-right. We are Greeks and you can understand it! Only Greek! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The far right and the nazis and fascists are outside the House. But you forget something - and I close here - that Nazism, fascism and communism are not ideologies. Do you know why? It's some kind of life culture. Whether you're left or anything, if you've got fascist, nazi, authoritarian attitude, you're fascist Left, listener or I don't know what else. That's what you don't understand. It's mental, it's human. The best left, if he's authoritarian, for me, is fascist and racist. It's over. We stop the logic here. Be a little serious in this House as long as we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u163	In conclusion, Mr President, we can discuss this at a special conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u164	Yes, Mr President, I live here, but read a little Plato because it is good. It's not bad anyone doesn't understand anyone, it's bad to make remarks when they don't understand. I have here the study done by the Greek Solution, 44 billion euros, of which 20 will go to wind turbines. It is shameful for the New Democracy to serve people who make wind turbines for a job - a hundred wind turbines - when there is no profit, because their friends are the specific entrepreneurs who want to fill Greece with wind turbines. Specific businessmen! You want me to name names? In "TERNA" Koplosos, Mytileneus, I tell you names. ‘GEC - TERNA’, Peristeris. I'm saying names. They don't say names, they're scared. A lifetime they're cowards. Just yelling, they know. They're the ones you're serving. I tell you that wind generators murder the environment and most of all do not bring wealth. They produce no wealth, produce electricity, which in thirty years' time will not exist, because they end in thirty years and have toxic waste. Understood. When you're trying to dismantle them, they're full of toxic waste. They're made of rare earths. So to serve any German who makes them - because Germans make them, German representatives plant them - to leave the currency, make tragic mistakes. I close with a statement - which I will be tabling in the Minutes, because tomorrow we will say more - of those who put photovoltaics on a mountain and ask the beekeepers to take the five thousand bees out of the area, because they are disturbing their photovoltaics. Do you understand what you're doing? The beekeepers will not find solid ground to leave their bees. We kill nature every day. We murder wealth production, murder homeland and Greece. Understand one thing: If Greece does not produce wealth, all it will produce will be a memorandum and if you do not understand what is happening, I fear that in a year from now, we will have a great problem in our country. Hunger, too much hunger! And I don't know who's gonna hide and how they're gonna hide with what's coming. Why? Unfortunately, no European democrat has supported the Borrell Declaration, which said to share the oil in the Aegean Sea with the Turks. Borrell, the Energy Commissioner, told Turkey on an official visit, and you did not even take one step, Mr Treasury, one observation, one objection to what is called treason. One betrayed Macedonia, you led by the ear from Merkel to betray Greece itself in relation to the co-existence. There are other betrayals Greece can't take. Understand it and wake up. React with Mr. Mitsotakis, who is underground from what seems to have agreed to the concentration. There's no coexistence. Greek is the money, in Greece they belong, there is national sovereignty and the Greek Solution does not negotiate the self-evident. Greek people's money will not be taken by any Turk who is an enemy of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u165	We are now entering the list of speakers. Parliamentary representatives can speak in the intervening period. I am telling this House that a hundred and twenty-four speakers have been registered. With the consent of this House to make the minutes of speaking time six, without meaning that no one will speak for seven minutes. There's got to be a tolerant for seven minutes, but don't get over it. So you will speak as many as you can. Do not talk more about those who are at the outset, because the list is now being formed, and then those who are toward the end will be in a more unfavourable position. He agrees with the House. So the first is Mr. Ploris from New Democracy, then Mrs Christidou will speak from SYRIZA, shortly after the parliamentary representative of Mera25, Mr. Gregoriadis. Mr. Floris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor, and I will start from something I have heard here from various rapporteurs, about the insulting way that has been mentioned many times in the Greek Police. I heard them say about untrained special guards. Ladies and gentlemen, the special guards are dead. In Rente there was a memorial to the two children who were special guards - and they were trained - and they fought with those who had a kalashnikov. Twenty days ago, the police officer's memorial to keep a face in the center of Athens and murdered him a terrorist organization. At last, respect the Greek policeman and if you don't respect him, go look into the eyes of those who the Greek state gives you. How will you face them coming here and saying they are untrained? They're Greek police officers, they're special guards. Every day they go out with their machines to defend the security of the Greek citizen. But yes, if we go to the courts, we will see that when arrests are made from the marches, witnesses are SYRIZA MPs there, who accidentally appear in the GDR for violations of rights and the courts go and defend them, slandering and swearing the cops. But from this step by step, when you talk about the cops, you should remember and remember that they all have dead, who are to protect the citizen. Minister, Mr. Raguss made you the greatest gift. If there was one chance that the bill would be unconstitutional, there is no reason why it stood up here and said that, with the changes you have made, you automatically adapted to what you have been told, so there is no question of unconstitutionality, as there was at no stage. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you're doing a lot of unconstitutional things. Let me remind you that Mrs Thanos' case was judged by the Council of State, if you do not know the outcome, because, as has rightly been said, the courts judge which ministers have made unconstitutional laws and who have made constitutional laws. Those who are in Athens and especially addressing the colleagues who are here and elected to the 1st District of Athens, know that one of the major problems of the city is the marches, when they do so, which effectively paralyse the economic and social situation of the city. I must even say - apart from any disagreements he has - that Mr Kamines, who was not only a municipal councillor when he was a mayor, but also as a parliamentarian, had called on the Members of Athens at an unsuspecting time - I think it was in 2012 - to start opening a debate in order to allow the city to function normally. So, at the moment, we have the right to assemble. This right no one disputes it. But there is also the right of all other citizens. For a strange reason in this country there is this right: for whatever reason, whether fair, personal or collective, I would like to protest, in order for my protest to be worthy, I must afflict everyone else. We are thirty people and we want to protest on this point, we consider our right to close the University, Stadium or Amalia. Because the whole city - those who work in the city, those who are citizens of the city, those who have business in the city - must be afflicted to listen to me and punish them, because the government is not fulfilling my request, which can also be unreasonable. Aren't all these citizens right? Do we have disasters in the city of Athens? We are not only saying about the deaths that have been said and rightly enough, our rapporteur, Mr Karagunis, has said to them. That's right. You're protests, people died. So you want us to hide that? People died because some people protested and didn't take action. These people would live if measures had been taken or if there was a framework for these trajectory. But let's go to something that's going on. Bandalisms all the time. They're destroying property. Public spaces, municipal spaces, properties of Athenian citizens. How will they all be compensated? They are compensated by the Greek taxpayer, the one who sees us now, and we consider it to be self-evident that the Greek taxpayer will compensate them and we do not believe that there will be the responsibility of the one who makes the gathering and will not observe it. On the two problematic points you raised, one was the issue of responsibility which you have looked at in your disagreement, because if one listened to it outside, ladies and gentlemen, one would say: 'Is he not right?' When is the man punished? Listen when he's being punished. If it does not comply with the following measures, firstly, if it does not work directly with the police authority and if it does not comply with the suggestions, that is to say if the police authority tells him that the course from here is to go and does not. Secondly, if it does not inform the participants of not bringing weapons to the gathering and it does not inform the police that there are people with inside weapons. So he shouldn't have a responsibility? Also, when it does not set a sufficient number of persons to be consulted. If he does these three things, there is no civil responsibility. A second point you raised is the question of counter-concentrations. With good legislative improvement, the police can actually give another room for no problem. Because you have also referred to the EDPS, the EDPS of course also allows restrictive measures to exist when there is a risk. I ask you now responsibly: if people, institutions or organizations or anything to protest against immigrants and in the Propylaea are concentrating on those who are going to protest here, does it want a lot of sense to understand that Athens will be dissolved? I do not understand the meaning of anti-concentration because it violates the right of assembly of those who want to protest. But if you tell him instead of the Propylaea to go make it in Victoria Square or St. Panteleimon Square that there is no conflict, what right is violated? None. In conclusion, Mr President, I will say that our disagreement is this: Framework do you want for the marches? To come and say that this framework is suffering in one, two, three points, to discuss it. In fact, you do not want any framework, because, unfortunately, your children are out there, not those who are protesting, but those who come out and destroy and you are unfortunately relying on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u167	Mr Katrugalos has the floor, who has made a change with his colleague, Mrs Christidou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear why this bill is coming. He observes that when he fails the left hand of the state, what gives the benefits, which ensures social rights, fatally strengthens the right, the suppression and authoritarianism. However, as long as, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you can legislate to ban the law of gravity, then the more you can prevent either society from complaining and reacting to radicalism or radicalisation, as you are trying to do in Article 19. We must, however, identify the differences, because I have also seen in the initial statements, the suggestions and the objection of unconstitutionality, to respond to issues that have not been raised. We never told you how to do it. We have said that the bill repeats most of the provisions of the Uganda Legislative Decree. It would be inaccurate to tell you how punk you are because you are not. Only one of you - and indeed a recent acquisition - was the Secretary-General of ENPEN. What we are saying is that the legislative decree is almost likewise repeated in the regulations of the bill, without taking into account that we are in a completely different constitutional framework from that of the false constitution of '68. The right to assemble is one of the oldest individual rights already in the Constitution of 1864 and the reason for limiting the right was always two things: a serious risk to public security or a serious disturbance to socio-economic life. In both cases "severe" means not the usual fatal disruption resulting from any demonstration. It has to go beyond certain limits. What did the 1968 and 1973 false constitution say? Other conditions have been provided for, namely, that public meetings should be duly disclosed to the police authority. On the basis of this arrangement and the corresponding 'president of the demonstration', Legislative Decree 794/1971 was drafted. So look at how Manoledakis criticised this legislative decree, as opposed to the current constitutional arrangements, which could mot a mot apply to your own regulations, "by the insults against the state power" of Manoledakis. ‘The Judicial Decree establishes restrictions which are not provided for and are therefore not permitted under Article 11 of the Constitution, such as the meeting of the President or to be notified before the police. It shall also provide grounds for the dismantling of public meetings in addition to the restrictions provided for in Article 11, the existence of an organisational barrier, valid and appropriate notification.’; So all of this, which refers to the junta's legislative decree, applies to the identity of the legal word and to the arrangements you have brought. Unfortunately for you, these are also highlighted in the note from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. What's he saying there? It is clear that the disclosure, which can obviously be predicted and obviously the average of the European countries, and that the non-notification should be either a criterion for the legality of the demonstration or a much more tolerable constitutional reason for the break-up of a demonstration. See it on page 5 of the Note to the Scientific Service of the Parliament. It is completely unconstitutional to include the purpose in the notification and much more unconstitutional the provision for a complete ban on anti-declaration, where the purpose is indeed controlled. Again, this is noted by the Scientific Service of the Parliament. We have here a series of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights, Faber v Hungary, Hyde Park v Moldova and others. Therefore, since it is not a constitutional tolerable criterion for the legality of the demonstration and much more so for allowing it to be dissolved, not only the opinion but also the obligation to declare an organizer is what the Constitution does not, as a restriction, and therefore forbids. Apart from what I have mentioned and already provided for in our case-law, the case-law of the HR is also the case-law of the HR in a number of decisions relating mainly to Turkey and Hungary, in which I fear you are oriented towards our own political life. But at the beginning I told you that there were no legal grounds for not having been, the demonstrations will not be avoided. Anyone who is sowing winds reaps storms. But I have some news for you. After accepting the proposals of the Change Movement, not just in the courts, these anti-constitutional bans will fall, but it is impossible to apply even in practice. As regards Mr George Kamine, I would mention that in the debate on the '75 Constitution', PASOK tabled proposals, some of which were accepted, but then retired, when he considered that the constitutional arrangement was not where the whole of the opposition wanted it. So why do I think that the changes you make, the legislative improvements, following the proposal of the Change Movement, actually make the bill completely inapplicable? Not only for the reasons mentioned in the letter from the Prosecutors' Association, because you are entrusting administrative tasks to judicial officers, which is contrary to the opinion of the Prosecutor of Ice 8/2002 and to the opinion of the Council of State 186/2013, but also for another reason that is more tangible. What are you in place there? A complex administrative action, which ends with the police decision, either considers the demonstration to be non-legal in the legality control phase or in its decision to dismantle the demonstration which part of the complex administrative action is a judicial body. This is absolutely inappropriate and absolutely impossible to implement. It is against the distinction of functions. It may not be a judicial decision to be a part of a complex administrative action. For these reasons you will not find any prosecutors who will order to dismantle a protest as has already been declared to you. That just means that your law will be completely left on paper. The law will be implemented as long as the law of law of law has been applied. Protests will take place without being disclosed, protests will be carried out without an organiser and will not be dissolved when fascists cause concentrations, society will react and counter-concentrations. Of course the next progressive government - which will not be late - will also formally abolish this law, which will never be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I enter the main part of my speech on today's bill, which I have studied with great warmth and contempt, because it concerns me directly as a free citizen of this country, to stand up to what Mr Ploiris said, who really managed to surprise me in a variety of ways. First of all, I was amazed at his sense of leap - this amazing logic I must admit - that Mrs Adamopoulou allegedly implied that it was the policemen who are untrained themselves. You know, it's convenient, but it's also a little comedy to say it's the policeman who's untrained, and so he's risking his life and the life of the other people with whom he's in touch. We all know who's to blame. It's your fault. I mean, it's all the governments they've been running and left - if they've left the cops untrained. We all live here, and we all know that much of our special guards and other police forces are not diligent and as they should be trained. And to see that we are all the ones who know it and to stop being hypocrites in here, the first one who said it three days ago to the relevant Committee of the Parliament is the President of the Pan-Hellenic Police Federation, Mr. Gerakus, who told us that they are untrained. So, dear Mr Ploris, leave what you know to be against Mrs Adamopoulou - who just said that they are untrained - saying they have dead. He did not say at all that it was the fault of those who are untrained to offend the memory of the dead. And we must not forget that perhaps some of these dead exist precisely because these fraudulent colleagues here and here in this House - because we are all working here - are untrained. A second part which really exiled me and I cannot avoid it is what Mr Ploris said when he spoke of when - and even devastated when the organiser - said when the 'greedy' new institution we discovered, the organizer of the concentration, namely the law responsible for the concentration - should be accountable to justice. The second reason he said - it is his words - is that this organiser does not comply with the recommendations of the police. And indeed the assembly is automatic to me, which my father, an officer of the Navy, now a retired naval Admiral, is tormented wildly by Mr Baballis and Mr Mallios on the descents of the Athens Security, for me, the assembly is direct, when a MP today dares to say - and a bill dares to say so because Mr Ploris obviously reproduced it - that he will be answerable to justice when he does not comply with the suggestions. You know, it reminds of Mickey's famous song: "Because he did not conform to the suggestions." This is something that the legislator should have avoided, but also the Members who defend the unfortunate piece of legislation. Before I go to the main part of my speech, I have something pleasant for you, I think. Yesterday I had the honour and luck of taking part in a demonstration to tackle the Greek people, the people of Athens, this bill that comes, which I consider to be extremely dangerous for our democracy. 'Shooting the protests, responding with protests'. Signature: Travel Operation. The law is the right of the worker." Communication from the Labour Revolutionary Party against the bill of crackdown and banning the steps: 'Noon pasaran!' And finally: The hunger-to-death strike continue in Turkey's prisons, lawyers said so and said about the strikers. In Turkey, as you all know, there is a junta, democracy has been lost. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why am I filing these nice literature in the Minutes? I testify because I had the luck of getting them yesterday, and I thought I just got them, as they gave me passive people of the gathering that I participated in, with the Mera25 bloc, that these people, if you pass your law, will have a great difficulty giving me these papers to learn their opinions and that is a problem with our democracy as a whole. I'll say something that makes it even more interesting. I was lucky - and I am not saying this - to accept bottles of water at this gathering and one or two coffees. Luckily, they didn't get me. They came from autonomous anarchists, from the black to Black, etc. You know, I understand that you're looking at me with wonders, especially those who sit on the right side, because it's unthinkable that I'm here and continue to defend my potential laughers. I am sorry, Mr President, for the inappropriate expression, for this barbaric Greek language. I'll keep doing it. We will continue to surprise you. We leftists are like this. We believe in the basic principle of the French Revolution. It's the cornerstone of our thoughts. These people, who thought I did not have the right to participate as a party in their gatherings, at the gathering of all of us to avoid this abortion - I'm sorry, Mr Chrysochide, with all my love, but on an abortion of anti-democratics they are - do you know why they believe that? Because they think that I'm a prick sold anyway, since I'm part of the parliamentary game, since I accept that this is a representative democracy. So I'm here today to look you in the eyes and tell you that this game we're playing here is not a game at all. It's the most serious story. It is our real direct parliamentary democracy. It has imperfections, such as the Rules of Parliament that give the knife and melon and watermelon and everything in the respective authority. However, I am here to guarantee democratic operation. And I was there to look them in the eye and tell them: Why are you attacking me? Because I'm here to keep you having the right to protest? Why are you throwing water on me? Because I'm here to say they don't have the right to cut off your voice? Look, we left-wing, and indeed the radical left-wings of Mera25 - because SYRIZA is going anymore, I don't think he's so radical - we're in the middle, we're in the middle, we're in the middle, we're in the middle, we're the center. We have, on the one hand, Mr Chrysochide - I am not saying this personally, I am referring to what Mr Chrysochoidis represents, in this bill, which smashes barbarically and brutally our constitutionally guaranteed rights, and I have mentioned earlier the articles - and, on the other hand, young people, people who obviously have no distinction, according to my own assessment, and who dare to be there, I dare be on the road, I dare be in the race. Look at the interest: We are moderate, calm and solid thinking. We're between two extremes. We're between two extremes and not you who're making the centerpieces. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, are we here today to discuss public open-air meetings and other provisions? Is the constitutionally guaranteed and inalienable right to our meeting and protest being renegotiated again? Will the demonstrations of our people from now on take place only if this draft law is passed and the state law becomes, after the agreement and authorisation of the police? I'm sorry, listen to it a little. Listen to it. Stop what you do and listen to it. Do you hear that? You sound like a joke. The police are over there to do another job, not co-decide when they start and when the gatherings are over. Furthermore, according to the bill, when the police authorize a public outdoor meeting, will she have the power to intervene in order to limit or dismantle it? In addition, this bill introduces the concept of personal civil and criminal liability - it will go to prison, it will also take the home - for the person who has been recorded - and it will be compulsory to have such a person - as the organizer of the meeting, in other words, the gathering, the course, the protest. So the comico-tragic reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that with this draft law, in fact - and listen carefully to this - the real, the only real consortium organiser, since he will enjoy the privilege of licensing, restricting and finally dismantling a concentration, becomes - oh of the miracle, who? - The Greek police themselves. Congratulations, but it's really funny. And on the other hand, there is the obvious organiser, who will bear sole responsibility for everything that happens during this public gathering. Why isn't the police responsible, so if they start to burn and break, since she gives her permission, she oversees if she goes right, she limits her if she judges and she stops her if she judges? Why shouldn't the police be the organizer in charge? Let her be her and answer her. Ladies and gentlemen, in such a dystopian environment, both greedy and difficult both at national and global level with the economic crisis, the health crisis of the coronary, with the overall deterioration of our standard of living, seems rather to be reaching the absolute dystopia, with a regulated constitutional right, such as that of our protest, to become an exclusively operational issue for the police and the political leader of the Civil Protection Minister. The repression, ladies and gentlemen, which the Government of New Democracy uses as a strengthening tool to serve the interests of the oligarchy, is obviously necessary to achieve the objectives of your Government, which are no more than the sale of public property, namely water, PPC, the privatisation of public education and public health, the payment of guarantees - you know the 12 billion euros - with the 'HRAKLES' plan, which we tell you every week and you do not respond to anything, turbulently - to your friends who have the predators, the deregulation of the working relationships they have left, the mines everywhere in the ground - do not remain part without a hole - and the management of the refugee and migratory crisis. And all of this with one, let me say, and the only aim: to transform rights of inalienable and self-defence into privileges mediated by market and money rules from the private market. In view of the fifth memorial - brought by Mr Mitsotakis' government - the government itself feels the need to shield itself legislatively, as was shielded a week ago by the Court of Auditors. I would remind you, a week ago, of the EUR 1,400 with which a social group could apply to the highest courts in the country, in order to claim the fair, that is, the wage reductions that you were planning to bring and the tax increases - you are doing it 5 thousand so that it cannot be remedied, and this shows that you intend to bring down wages and pensions, as well as showing what you intend to bring next year. This bill that we are debating today only essentially aims to reduce the fundamental right to public protest and to make its exercise more difficult. Why is that? Don't you intend, as we've been screaming since Mera25, to bring overwhelming wage and pension cuts? You will do so, because Mr Stournaras, apologies Mr Stournaras, is your man at the Bank of Greece, Mr Stagioras, I meant, last week, as you know, he co-signed the Eurogroup communiqué, which says that next year this country, the damned, Bananas, will have a primary surplus. Mathematics does not come out, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because in order to have a primary surplus, this country of the year will have taken measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. So the government is aware that it will meet mobilizations against its anti-grassroots policies. That is why he is strugglingly trying a constitutional right to abolish it by the side road. He also knows that there will be legal claims as I told you before. That is why he did what he did with the Court of Auditors. So now I'm going to close up so I won't trouble you saying that just: do you really think, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you're going to gag the Greek people? Or do you think that the Greek people will be afraid? Don't cry, don't be afraid, I'm answering. I love to remind you every time here, that the Greek people have never been afraid in the critical moments of their history. He always found a way to national resistance and the junta with the Polytechnic and 62% "no" only five and a half years ago to resist what restricted his dignity and freedom. After half a century, forty-nine years to be precise, after the decrees of the colonel junta for banning demonstrations, it is your Government, Mr Mitsotakis and your Ministry, Mr Chrysochide, who take us back in dark times. All this on the pretext of legality and order. I will close with a phrase written by the distant 1881 the pioneer Brazilian writer, Masanto De Assis, who says: "Don't forget others all the time, man ends up fooling himself and thus escapes his shame, which is a painful sense of hypocrisy, which is a terrible flaw" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u171	Mr Marinos George from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Mr Chrysochide, thousands of workers, hundreds of labour-people's movements require the withdrawal of the obsolete bill brought by the Government of New Democracy for undermining, slandering and banning demonstrations and all forms of popular protest. Your perseverance shows the hostility of your government to popular rights, emphasises your commitments to big capital, the exploiters you represent. However, if you are seeking to conquer the title of executor of the right to the demonstration that was conquered with hard struggles and sacrifices, the labour struggle has the power to throw this abortion into the trash as well and lead its inspirations to humiliation. Minister, you're an old system caravan and you know that class struggle is tough. It expresses the interests of workers who fight for their work, the bread, the wages, the pension, the needs and determination will continue to strike, protest, question capitalist barbarism and conflict with the anti-grass policy of every bourgeois government condemning them to poverty, unemployment, tax, which undermines the future of their children. Capitalism faces unsurpassed problems: economic crises, responsible for the imperialist wars, fears popular organization, uplifting and mass participation in the struggles and takes its measures. The European Union's wolf alliance has opened the way by incriminating and criminalising the radical ideas of communist ideology. It places communist parties outside the law, protects the status of the Monopolies dictatorship, and that is why it has come to say that popular protests are a danger to the security of the European Union. In these tracks, you're pressing. The aim of the bill is deeper. He's beyond the lawsuits. This is evidenced by the creation of an address to prevent violence and the anti-rootism service that opposes capitalist exploitation, which believes in class struggle as a driving force for social development and is fighting for the abolition of exploitation. This fight burns you and you're attacking mobilism, the slandering of mobilizations, the repression. You are smuggling radicalism with terrorism and forms of violence, such as domestic, intra-school and others. Each operator of the operating system has two options: anti-population policy and repression. From the 1970s to the present day, the governments of the New Democracy have resorted to countless attempts to suppress workers' struggles. The PASOK governments did the same. On the same road, SYRIZA who hypocritically tries to hide behind this rival monstrosity. Why? Because SYRIZA retained the law of law, hit the strike right, passed a law prohibiting the mobilisation of the auctions, which described them as a peculiar offence, refused to abolish the "terrorism", used the stench on minorities. You put them, Minister, with the majority of the people squeezing from anti-population policy and trying to make fun of them. You tell him that for all the things he is experiencing, it is not anti-popular, but demonstrations. Your argument is funny, because austerity, poverty, unemployment, the attack on the right to health, education is a general feature of the situation of working people. The retraining of the self-employed is a general trend, manifested everywhere in the districts of Athens in Attica and across the country. It is not limited to the center of Athens and has nothing to do with the demonstrations. The traffic problem is permanent, the suffering daily. You live, gentlemen of the government, in your urban world away from the agony of our people, and you are consciously trying to slander protests, protests, struggles forbid them. That is why you are moving the threads of social automation and you are making use of various parrots of media calamity that have shown dozens of times their hatred in the struggles of workers, farmers, students, students, students, doctors and nurses who otherwise were heroes in the pandemic. This is how it is done in exploiting societies, we have examples of heroism and old-fashionedness for the interests of the people, but also apologies to anti-grass policy, which are devastated around the throne of power. You dare talk about banning mobilisation in ministries and public services. The nail in your eye is the mass, well organized struggles shown by the workers their strength and forms a disgusting framework of police occupation, threats, persecution, punishment and provocation to hit them. You're unscrupulous. This bill will stay on paper. The Communist Party of Greece, as always, will be at the forefront of the struggle with the working class, the struggling people, the young people and the young people of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a serious bill which, of course, has to do with symbolism, but also with substance. The controversy, as it has been developed as to whether or not there should be regulation of the issues that have to do with safeguarding the exercise of basic rights, such as the meeting, is diverted because many times for communication, for reasons of political purpose, a polarization is created, an extreme phrase is expressed, which does not lead to the desired result. And what is the desired result for citizens? As laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution, which since 1975 has been fundamental, there should be a law to regulate matters relating to meetings. In the general question no scientist of any party has seen that there must be regulation, no scientist. Party officials of course from all parties have said other and what is needed, but what is needed is to be used for these purposes and others that it is not right. So I come here to say that we directly say that there needs to be an institutional regulation and, of course, there needs to be a lifting of all those remnants, which have remained not in force because they are inactive, but as a letter to the provisions of the law of our country, the provisions of the dubious period and not only. I believe that there are other provisions that have not been explicitly abolished in previous periods that are in complete contrast with what the country needs today, and that society needs. On this basis, therefore, we are also discussing not just to denounce - and we have done so - the government and specific purposes, which seemed to be satisfied through the bill, but to compare our view to force the government to change the basic provisions of this bill, and this has to do with the exercise of the democratic right to meet and protest. This right, coupled with the right to civil security for normal economic and social life, can, with the right weighting, exist without misuse of power, without any misuse of the right. It's very clear. So the government came in front of the police officer and said that the weighting of these two basic rights would be done by the police officer. We disagreed at the outset, not because the police are the same in the EPE or more front, at any rate in the post-war state and in the dictatorship, the police have changed, but this does not mean that a low-ranking police officer can weigh these two basic rights. And it is not right, even if it could as a person do it with his knowledge and ability, to assign this responsibility to a low-ranking police officer in the sense that any development we know would result in a communication of the political leadership "the policeman was to blame". I thought of this aspect as we talked to people of work, people who have knowledge of these issues. And I think it is very important that our proposal for independent justice, for justice as an independent institution distinguished by the executive, should have a dominant role in this process. The fact that the government has accepted this is positive, but that in the provision concerning our President of the First Chamber you say, Minister, that if it does not express an opinion within twenty-four hours, it is assumed that it agrees with the break-up of the demonstration's strike, that is to say, that the event will not take place, that is to say, from any constitutional basis. On the other hand, the case-law and all provisions relating to time-limits are on the part of the applicant's citizen. And in this particular case the citizen, because there are citizens with the other right, as we have said, is the one who wants to make the meeting, make the protest, make the event. So it is a time-consuming step, as Mr Kamine described it, and you will have to complete it, otherwise there is no point in this change that you have made. The Union of Judges and Prosecutors, with all due respect I am feeding it, when it is given constitutional responsibility as an independent separate authority to ensure, which the police cannot do, does not say that 'I do not want it'. That is not, in my view, appropriate. Their opinion is, of course, but they cannot be democratically delegated to them, provided for by the Constitution. It's not executive. It is an opinion of justice, a decision, which is in the context of distinct judicial power. No way. I'm closing up with the issue of civil liability. You insist, Minister, on a provision that I take as a message to the wrestlers: "Stop it, do the rheumatism, the responsibility will be held by the person in charge of the event. Nor will you pay anything, nor will you have any impact, since you are not arrested for committing the offence, as is the usual case. So here I have to tell you that the provision of the draft law on civil liability is fundamental, in our view. The regulation you have made, not only, is in line with a suggestion, of course, of the Scientific Council, but essentially strengthens the institution and, above all, does not remove this message that I have told you that it is giving. Because each provision can have a double reading. And here the second reading is stronger than the first. Unfortunately, instead of ensuring, it's going to break down. Of course, this will result in some organization thinking about taking a demonstration in this sense. But, that is not, I believe, the object of the ministry and cannot be of the House as well. We, therefore, because responsiblely and creatively, regardless of the complaint, regardless of which criticism we are criticising, say and suggest specific things that will ensure the right to meet and to protest, which will ensure the rights that they have to do with the workers, and in no case do we want what will result from being a new rally of judiciary fights with persecuted trade unionists or organizers of events, will table an amendment to this article for its change. If you do not accept it, or if you do not accept the amendment of your own provision, we will also put a roll-call vote against it, of course, and this provision as unsuitable for the need to weigh the two rights with the law you bring. We're clear, Minister, so we'll move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u175	Well, look at that, Minister. Because it is a civil provision that enters here, and there are provisions in the Civil Code on guilt, that is to say, a coup d'état and possibly the whole responsibility, together with the perpetrators, who would cause damage, etc. Legally I'm talking about it now. I don't want to interfere. And at the very most was the organization’s full responsibility along with the perpetrators they would do. Is it possible for a piece of legislation to be compatible with this provision? While entering as a criminal provision, it should be in the civil code essential to how the compensation is made. Although there's a framework. Just the increased responsibility of the organizer to be fully responsible for the perpetrators. I'm just thinking about it. Look at it. I'm saying that out of order. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakorafa, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. A former Prime Minister and honorary president of the New Democracy once said that "After ten years no one will remember". But the people do not forget. I, too, read: '1 January 1971, Constantine, King of the Greeks, proposes to the other Ministerial Council that we decide and order: to make known in accordance with Article 3(4) and (5) of this 'Public Meeting in the country', the police authority may prohibit this, if it wanted to do so, by means of an investigation, that there is a risk to public policy and security of this kind, which cannot be prevented by lower police measures'. Vice-President Stylianos Pattakos, Prime Minister George Papadopoulos. I'll testify to the V.T.F.C. Unfamiliar government legislation of the youngest political exile of the junta. And Mr Samaras was not a fan of the demonstrations, but he was not 'prohibited'. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality confirms Marx who said that "the story repeats, the prank and the other as a tragedy". This shows the identical wording of the constitutional decree, articles which are identical by content, aggregation, even by word, with the anti-constitutional bill under the Scientific Committee of Parliament. Lords of government, don't be so vigilant. Copy the SYRIZA gentlemen who knew and ran the "magaz" and they were not taken by anyone when they legislated such wicked things. September 2017, Government Tsipras: ‘It shall be announced that by decision of the Chief Police Director of Attica during President Macron’s official visit, any public meeting or a course during the period, etc., shall not be permitted on grounds of public security.’. I present to you such a decision by a police director of a complaint ban on the visit of ‘go back, Frau Merkel’ in January 2019. These decisions were perpetrated into offices of reasoning and comrades of Mr. Tsipras. Mr Tsipras did this because he was asked by his State Secretary and Member of Parliament today, who said that 'the regime for regulating our demonstrations takes us out of a European context' or because his friend Mr. "Bibis" Netanyahu did not want the embassy of Israel to be disturbed by demonstrations. What I know is that some days ago SYRIZA's gentlemen protested with flags and handkerchiefs outside the embassy of Israel against what they themselves as a government had voted in the golden four years of Greek-Israel relations. Is there an honorable one? What I know is that both the current Prime Minister and the former have a weakness in the legalisation of peculiar offences of the same quality as the punctual memory of 1929. Mr. Mitsotakis, the peculiarity of the protests and Mr. Tsipras, the specific nature of the auctions in application of 'No house in the hands of a banker'. He was disturbed by reminding him of his agonizing companions who denounced him and abandoned him when he betrayed the Greek people's bronze "no" in the 2015 referendum. Today, however, I do not understand on what occasion the government brings this bill. In March 2010, when George Papandreou’s MATs sprayed with chemicals and sent to the hospital the partner Manoli Glezo. The Memorandum Forces were singing the excuse for safeguarding the smooth movement of cars and the uninterrupted operation of stores in the center of Athens. That excuse no longer exists today. The memorials closed the shops and today's mayor, the prime nephew, with the "big walk" was the vision of Antonis Tritsis. So you don't do it for that. You forbid meetings, because you are shaking popular mobilizations. You're the government of fears. You fear that the scientists who lead them to the disaster will rise for reasons of'social justice', as the Deputy Minister of Finance said. Fear of workers, after you have released redundancies and subsidized the employer to cut 20% of their earnings. Fear the farmers, who have left them in despair. Even the traders are afraid they can't reopen their stores. You're right. People's movement won't be long! The gatherings of September 3, 1843, of Killer, in Goudi, in Thessaloniki in 1936, the great condolences of resistance in the Occupation, the mobilisations of Youth Labraki, the one-1-4, the Cyprus and 15% for education, are the story of the tradition of democratic patriotism. No law can overthrow the heroic spirit of resistance from the Greek people! The people's movement will also overthrow this law, the disobedience movement, which will support the Mera25 and all democratic citizens, whether by palliative or militant admiration on the sidewalk. The Greek radical fighters defend, by every means, the right to assemble, which was first recognised in the Constitution of 1864. So we denounce the state-of-the-art saying of 'taraxies and bazaars'. We are safeguarding our own gatherings, to the limits of the people's demands. We don't need to cooperate with the establishment mechanisms. And since, as it is called "the ridiculousness is a little far from the tragedy", remember, because of the implementation of similar provisions, similar attitudes and responsible for police forces - the brutality of which the Minister today, instead of having been curtailed, has, in the past, experienced tragedies with innocent victims, such as the murder of Kumi and Kanellopoulou in 1980. I'm filing the papers. Like the murder of Sotiris Petroula in July 1965. I'm submitting a post. Ladies and gentlemen, on 21 July we are going to present a flower on Stadium Street, where Petrol was murdered. You try to protect your Chief. If nothing else, he's the Prime Minister. Not to be exposed by his prescribing ministers, who do everything to remind us that we have July and the Mitsotakis government. In a lasting effort, therefore, I call on the Prime Minister to intervene and withdraw the bill and now to withdraw the biased minister who suggests it before the people remember the well-known slogan. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u177	The Minister of Citizen Protection will now take the floor, and then Mr. Constantine Boubas will then take the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the regulation of a major constitutionally reserved right, the assembly, the right to collective action, which, together with the right to association, was established by the Constitution of 1864. Since then, in a liberal spirit, it was stated that only at public meetings could the police attend, while only those in the country could be banned if - as the authoritarian and subsequent constitutions said - by 1975. The Junta Constitution, in 1968 and 1973, introduced a general reservation and introduced compulsory notification, not only for open mergers. Our liberal constitutional tradition came back with the 1975 Constitution, restoring the special reservation and limiting the police’s presence only at the outdoor meetings. In other words, the ban on mergers has returned to the reasoned decision of the police authority, and instead of insulting the public order, the term ‘serious disruption of socio-economic life’ has been chosen, and this is as the law stipulates. For reasons not present, this law laid down by the Constitution forty-five years, as has been pointed out, has never been passed. It is therefore for reasons of constitutional order and democratic legitimacy that are shared responsibility and that is why the regulation of this right is due. Refusal to regulate is the fight against democracy. Let us also make it clear that the right to assemble without restrictions exists nowhere in the world. But that's not all. The experience of fifty years in the major cities and especially in the center of Athens, with the abusive occupations of streets by fewer groups, with violent actions and incidents, tend to identify in the consciousness of the vast majority of citizens the public protest with the suffering, violence and the inhibition of normal life. In today's situation no citizen is pleased. As long as we are hesitant, right and anti-democratic voices are shaken, they can find good ground to grow. We know that very well. We lived it in the university asylum and in the management of the public area in the neighborhoods. Each right shall be accompanied by the responsibility for exercising it, otherwise it shall be degenerated and annulled by abuses during its application. So I'm going to give you some information. The two-month May - June 2020 took place in Athens a hundred nineteen open-air gatherings, about two a day. 87%, close to nine out of ten, had less than five hundred participants. Half, five out of ten, had less than fifty. But almost all, that is in a hundred twelve out of a hundred nineteen, the roadblock was occupied, traffic was interrupted, suffering began again. I put the relevant information in the Minutes of this House. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is anyone happy with this situation? Even if we ignore the suffering of many, do we think that in this situation we are protecting or are we dismantling the right of assembly? Unfortunately, the answers to both questions are clearly affirmative. It is therefore surprising to hear voices of parliamentarians questioning the need for regulation. One last thing: Greece, with its policy of atomia, forty-five years now, and the frustration of non-regulation, is lamentable in Europe. It is the only country in the European Union that has not regulated this right. So whoever defends the present situation, take responsibility for their words and actions. Last in Europe, out of reality with regard to the needs of citizens, rotting the right to collective expression. We as government in such a way do not go along with each other. The government has dared and moved on. The Prime Minister promised. The draft law has been prepared and announced since the beginning of next year. The pandemic events have delayed us. I am referring to the time series, because there has been a sad and non-existent thing, that the bill is in a hurry to put it before the people's voices and protests of sociality coming in September. It would therefore be voted on in March, ladies and gentlemen. Don't seek conspiracy, don't build purpose. Go down to Athens one day, out on the streets, to discuss with the world. Citizens are in a hurry. The world is getting upset. Reality retires. And the government responds. That's how we make politics. That's our answer. That is how we policy, to serve under democratic responsibility and to resolve realities, not to harm the lives and needs of citizens in rigid ideas. We therefore propose to the National Representation a modern, democratic, institutional framework of reason and justice which, on the one hand, guarantees the right to assembly, on the other hand, the right of non-participants to freedom of movement and to facilitate access to their destinations. I stressed it in committee and I repeat it here in plenary. As we regulate a fundamental right, we as a government first have to show a spirit of cooperation and mutual understanding. I have heard and incorporated almost all the proposals of the Change Movement. I am particularly grateful to Mr Kamine, who, on his own initiative, has tabled a draft law, from which we have inspired and tabled a new draft law here in Parliament. I welcome the political stance of the Change Movement because it has essentially participated, proposed, chosen, consulted, and ultimately that is parliamentaryism, and that is democracy. The draft law clearly defines what is a public outdoor meeting. It is also clear that the framework of restrictions and changes which may be imposed by the authorities with regard to location, time, a route. Two representatives, the organiser and the ombudsman, are first set up. He's the proxy on the police side. This is how the gathering acquires persons and the cooperation of substance. The organiser shall represent and be responsible for taking all appropriate measures, clearly identified by the relevant provisions, for the smooth development of the meeting. The Ombudsman has the responsibility of consulting between aggregation, an organiser and a police force to achieve the common goal, to ensure the citizens' right to express their collective will. The protection of the concentration, ladies and gentlemen, is the protection of the right. It's not just police work. It is and must be a common welfare, a result of all the factors of the event. Guarantees are increased because responsibilities are identified in the event of a ban or changes in concentration. The appeal to the S.H.E.'s Suspension Committee is hereby instituted. without a prior deposit of an application for cancellation. In the event of dissolution, the Advocate-General shall be present if he is present. In the case of spontaneous concentrations which are currently very rapidly produced, in particular by social media, an easy framework is provided for their legal effect. The debate has focused on the so-called extermination penalties for the organiser. It's not like that. If there are no responsibilities for the organiser, there is no point in its existence. The organiser has the burden through the notification and through the strict description - I stress this, through his strict description - of his duties, as the Scientific Committee of Parliament has corrected it, to demonstrate that he has continued talks and cooperation with the police Ombudsman, in other words that he is doing what is going through his hand so that the participants can demonstrate freely. The diligence I would say is the spirit of the arrangement. They have heard little about the most tangible, specific, useful article of the bill, the introduction of digital updates of a special website, from which citizens in real time and interactively will be informed of alternative routes so that they can alleviate their daily lives when there are events. I consider this provision to be crucial for two reasons. The first is why he responds directly to the citizens' request for information in case of changes in the traffic routine. The second is why it is doing so digitally, interactively, introducing technology, i.e. leaving the digital footprint on this social issue. There is another issue that is wider, purely operational. It concerns the police, which must review its operational plans, which many colleagues have stressed in this House. It is rationalized, cleared up its framework of action. So there is no reason to take excessive order, which often afflict many hours before or many hours after the citizens. The first, then, which needs additional training for the implementation of this law is police and, of course, it will do so immediately. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with this very subject of applicability. The law will be implemented. I say this with confidence, with determination, but without any conflict or intent to demonstrate force. It's not a state of authoritarianism. It is an act of responsibility and no-one, please, will misunderstand my words. The law will be implemented because it obeys common sense. It abolishes anachronisms called rights, upgrades the ability to participate in the concentrations, ensures non-participants the smoothness of their lives. It will be implemented because, ladies and gentlemen, from a demonstration, we want to remember the slogans and the reasons why they were made, not the incidents, the damage, the suffering, the tension. Greece sighs on the stadiums and our democracy at the gatherings. That'll change. Last year I heard that the government would trigger Armageddon if it tried on unbelievers such as Exarches, as in the universities of used asylum. Take a look at the last picture that existed today. We all remember what was going on in various schools outside different schools, what was happening in various regions of Attica and how the situation is today. Changes have come. The legality was implemented with almost zero response. Because it was the reinstatement of himself, the relief of reason. I'm sure in a few years we'll just wonder how we tolerated today's chaos. It will happen, that is, if you remember, what has happened with the private radio and television that we continued and anachronistically refused until 1989. When it happened, no one thought to come back. You will now allow me to have a personal public conversation with a timeless friend who has just addressed me. So Yannis Ragus told me that I've been sitting here with people who hurt Greece. I'm answering, man Yannis, you think about which flag you're holding today. Think well who's ruining today. The SYRIZANEL government gave birth to a legacy of destructive polarization. Allow me, Mr Giannis, the party you are participating has even a flag today, hostility and polarization. I say it disastrous because it abolishes the basic acquis of post-population, which was what? Political opponents should not be enemies and large mass parties balance out the nationalist tendencies with their reform work, which all governments have done over the years. So that was the postpopulation and this acquis, and SYRIZA fights, this is the institutional decline that is taking his leadership today. I, therefore, remain unmovable in this valuable acquis. It was and is the compass of my political attitude. That's why I'm proud. I am pleased to be able to contribute today to reintroducing this acquis in order to return a page by reforming it and not destroying it. I am pleased, Giannis, that the country is finally breathing out of a toxic vocal climate of irrationalism, conspiracy and anti-liberalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Minister, and for keeping time. The reason is now Constantine Boubas from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once Pindar had said: "The shadow of a man", that man is the dream of a shadow. Because today we are talking and playing with our tail. It's like the dog turns around himself and tries to catch his tail. It is something society is asking for and we are trying to jeopardise human rights at work, access, quality of life, and saying that human rights will be violated. Who says that? We didn't say that. Be guaranteed by the Constitution by calling the pensioner for his pension or shouting for his national affairs, such as the Prespes. For chemicals and violence on some major national-speaking points, it has not been the case in previous years, as in the case of wood that was eaten - within or outside the importing country - pensioners. No one spoke of what the center of Athens is asking for today. You know, Minister, for a lot you adopt from the Greek Solution, you want a great deal of attention, because most of the mistakes are made in copying. Take note, then, of what you are copying from the Greek Solution, which, in one year's time, proposed to you both in the agricultural sector and in the issue of illegal immigrants, both in our national issues and in the influence of the islands that determine the EEZs. Because the Exclusive Economic Zones and Article 112 of International Law politically, at least, we heard them from Velopoulos. From him we learned what the EEZ is and what it involves in our national issues with the influence of the islands, granting Kastelorizo, Megisti, which is also the Greek name, Strongyli, Ros or Diapontia, and the Ottomans and Ereikos as regards the islands of the Ionian Sea, or Gadus and Gadoupou. Because we have to talk about everything. He said the Athens Trade Association a few days ago: Eighty gatherings took place after the coronary. Fifty took place until May. Every three working days the center of Athens closes. There are protesters, dealers and employees themselves. There's an official announcement. Get inside the Athenian News Agency. It says so. He says: "We cannot work like this when the center of Athens closes every three working days. Should we not make a living?' So they're right too. That is why today the bill we are discussing is two-story, because we must also support society and the right to protest. Congregation: It's a very good conversation. It is the verb "liquid". A meeting is also in the Church, a meeting of citizens and the Church of the Municipality according to ancient standards, because if there were no meeting on the municipal market, there would be no culture today. Perhaps there were no Hippocrates, Pythagoras, Socrates. You know, it reminds me of what they once asked Socrates. "The world is a spheroidal focus, " Socrates answered, "Not I have exaggerated." In other words, when they asked the great philosopher Socrates if the world is global, he said, "I didn't dig too much to see." Today, do we not know what society wants? Except for a journalist I've done a lot of work for years, because in life, you need to do a lot of work to survive. But you're gaining experience. I used to work as a rescuer. I remember the protest of a man we could not pass because there was a demonstration in Thessaloniki, while he took part in a demonstration ten days ago. I mean, the protester was a protester. You know, we're going to a protest to protest, we close the road a Priori and when we want to move to work or go home ourselves, we protest. Isn't that a little tragic? We did not say, and a sitting protest can be made and cause people to wonder why these people are sitting on the sidewalk for hours and placards to exist and slogans can be heard, but society must not be paralysed. We must not really paralyse society against everyone's right to work. Recently, as a Greek Solution, did we not tell Mr Karamanlis about the strike with the eight trade unionists on the subway, where all Athens paralyzed? And we said there, "The honor is gone"? You know what? The worker himself when he doesn't go to work to get the 20 euro share - and if he gets it - he'll tell him - that's a reality of the market, you really get into it, don't be in a world well-built, glass - "Find time to come". Villages where officials themselves don't want to lose time from work, because they need to go to work. That's what we need to see, compensation people for damages. We'll see, Minister. It's another parameter. It's a thought of mine and we put it as a Greek solution. He wants attention to some articles, to have a well-functioning function with regard to the normality of society that we want to bring through this specific bill for outdoor meetings. Get in article 8 of the German Constitution, how can the police forbid any demonstrations. See how the UK works. Aren't they Europe's states? See how Northern Ireland works, where the Constitution is not even established by the Protestants and Catholics. See what's going on in Israel. See, in other words, some other states. I'm not saying, it's the quintuosity of democracy. What does the Trade Association say? When there are few, just close the sidewalk, when there are more, close one or two currents. Leave one current to have oxygen on the market, so people can move, and above all, the one who goes to make a living, bioports. Now, you put the ombudsman and the organizer. You say in the article that the organiser who will take responsibility - and he is a trade unionist with experience - will be responsible for compensation for any damages done to the world if this process escapes him. I ask: unfortunately, damage is being done. Five cars are destroyed by the Greek car, which cannot even be found in the workshop to take it to change a mirror, which costs 100 euros, because its share is 20 euros. Will the organizer have money to compensate him? And if he says, "Cook, if you'll take it than you have" what are you going to say to him? Let's go a little on the ombudsman's point, because as a Greek Solution we were shouting that the ombudsman for the citizen must be free, as in Spain, and you also put an ombudsman - let me remind you again - non-legislative. The ombudsman will have a special training? Because, you know, when we're dealing with protests, we're dealing with another psychosynthesis and psychology, the so-called 'pump psychology', which we're protecting with antigens from becoming a mob. I ask: will the ombudsman have the psychology of the crowd so that he can calm down the spirits or better organize the course? It's a question. Is there going to be a special training? Because the police - and that's what the word says - is a sacred word. It's near the police station, near the city. Protects the citizen. And we want the police and trained and scientifically trained and well equipped, which is not the case today. The fleet is obsolete. You know, when the President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, here for some buttons, a shipowner was not found, a businessman to give a sponsorship, such as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, to take and renew the fleet with engines to the police, because there you cannot make marketing and sign. Of course it doesn't work! One to find out how to give money for some equipment in the Greek Army. The eight Typhoons - we brought them - which were seized - were said by our President - and are on Evros now these Canadian cars with an autonomous thousand kilometers. We'll see what happens and what Velopoulos says about helicopters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u181	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u182	I shall conclude, Mr President. As a Greek Solution I take the opportunity to tell you: Gulf Ali Aga 50km north of Smyrna: It is becoming the largest dissolution of ships in the world. Turkey is in the first ten countries in the production of steel, of which 2% in cracks, i.e. irons, gets them out of this trick. Heavy metals, nickel, clay, arsenic are poured into the Mediterranean Sea. The European Union has given ships to dismantle it, and Turkey since 1976 has broken down 4% of the world's fleet. It's called by Mr. Kanellepoulou, the professor at Heraklion Crete - it's not mine, the Greek Solution takes them off, to let you know - that they carry illegal immigrants these ships so that the satellite doesn't catch them off the coast of Italy and Greece. This is the issue of illegal immigrants with the Bay Ali Aga. Look into it. We put the question as Greek Solution and wait for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u183	At this point, ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that a request for a roll-call vote has been tabled by twenty Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on Articles 1 to 14 and 19 of the draft law, in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. The roll-call vote will take place tomorrow and you will be told exactly the time. Mr. Maraveyas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with the reasoning with which the Minister ended, that the opposition - especially the Civic Opposition - does not want any improvement in the current legislative framework. You want the junta provisions to remain in force. For this reason, you have not made any constructive suggestions both in committees and in the House. What has been heard in the last few days from Opposition is almost beyond what we have heard in the first year of governance by New Democracy. And within this time, it is true that you have not succeeded in bringing into a constructive dialogue. And it was rather expected, as SYRIZA has remained - and remains - immersed in his inner-party problems that have recently been giggled, as we confirm the complaints we have been making in New Democracy since 2016 that you have attempted to create a regime and eliminate the rules of urban democracy. This does not, of course, mean, ladies and gentlemen, that you can find a way out of your deadlocks with extremist claims. And I'm explaining. Everything that has been heard in the House about verbal decrees and the abolition of the Constitution simply demonstrates the desperation, both of your leadership and of its translations. When accusing the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis of unfreelable practices on the basis of regulations on public meetings, you prove your abundance. So let's remember what you're really doing: "The Constitutional Newspaper", July 2015. Report titled "First time left repression" which speaks of unprecedented manifestations of violence against protesters in the Constitution, when the first "good" memorandum, yours, appeared. I will submit to the minutes the relevant post with photos of the time in order to help your memory. I continue with a January 2016 post entitled “MATs hit pensioners in the course of insurance”. You will allow me to read you a small quote: "They hit the elderly during the course for the insurance in the center of Athens". Because colleagues of the SYRIZA have obviously forgotten that, we will also give it to you for the Minutes. Listening to what Mr Tsipras says before reaching the Prime Minister's chair, one can conclude that this is another demonstration of cynicism of the type 'the people will probably have forgotten a year after our government's events'. We are talking about devaluing the intelligence of the Greeks on your part and manifesting political affinity. In October 2016, however, things became even more clear and even more raw. You kept the very same practice against any protester. I read from a post of that period, which I will also present in the Minutes entitled 'Previously shameful images of chemicals against retired people'. "Retired people were unable to move to Maximos after their great course, as the knives of the MATs sprinkled Herod Attica and cut them off the road, thus causing their indignation. The police then made extensive use of chemicals against the elderly protesters." However, the question of what has happened over your days with the MATs is also raised. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you of your Chief's statements, also before he arrives in the Prime Minister's chair, where he announces the abolition of MATs as soon as he comes to power. Mr President, the question that arises is simple: what should we believe? Your old lies, your present and furious claims or your government's actions? The answer is obviously that we need to be content with the latter because it is the only real fact when the rest are just words. So, according to figures from the Citizens' Counselor, in the four and a half years of SYRIZA's governance we had on average a public protest of citizens every five days. But that truth did not bother you when Mr Tsipras said from this step as Prime Minister that there are no knives outside my office at the Maximos Mansion. However, the images that the citizens in Herod had seen every day were those of a permanently excluded by powerful road police forces, the same police forces you have sometimes accused. I will testify in the Minutes the photographs of the Great Maximos on Tsipras, where the cages were parked horizontally and vertically on the road, but obviously the then Prime Minister could not see them. This was the love and care you showed for public meetings. Ladies and gentlemen, one can say that you had a platonic relationship with the demonstrations that might have been summarized from far and dear, that you were theoretically entitled to the protest, provided that this was not manifested near the Tsipras and SYRIZA power centres. Yet, it turns out that you didn't want any kind of protest, even if it was far from the capital, or even if it was about student parades. I will submit to the Proceedings of the first half of 2019, where the then government ordered the preventive production of dozens of people, even of regular coffee, because they made the mistake of finding themselves close to a point where SYRIZA Members would appear. SYRIZA, however, did not stay in the preventive provocations and arrests. We all remember - and I am sure you, ladies and gentlemen - the savage incidents in the Florina Pisop between protesters who reacted to the Tsipras-Zaef agreement and the police officers of MATs. Sixteen people were taken to hospitals with respiratory problems and injuries. Then, of course, we were not particularly concerned about human rights. You were, however, giving full coverage to your government, citing these protesters as battalions of invasion. I will therefore submit a publication of the 2019 Written Newspaper on Preventive Arrests of innocents, as he wrote attributes. On the basis of the article on the Left of the Official Journal, the sixteen people in Giannitsa were prevented from expressing their opposition to government policies with a peak in the Prespecies Agreement to the then Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Kuveli and to your Member, Mr Theodora Jakri. I close with the newspaper's own words about this latest episode of the government, which unfortunately also apply today to the opposition: 'What is now lost is a common place. No one takes responsibility for finally asking for an apology when it's more likely that it's the same guy. Such actions, preventive arrests, that is, indicate that the government's gentlemen have panicked. Don't they get it? They're maybe oligens. Do they not see the diversion and what dangers it conceals for the democratic city of the country?’
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u185	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u186	I shall conclude, Mr President. The paper's author answers the questions he asked about SYRIZA's leadership: “They obviously do not understand it.” I fear and gentlemen that I will agree with the "The Constitutional Newspaper" and add that today, panic continues to be your most evil counsellor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u187	The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me take you a year ago to the government's programming statements and to what I said during that debate. I read it: "The implementation of what you consider liberal policies..." I told you "...in particular in fourth memorandum conditions requires acts that violate the basic principles of liberalism". The anti-liberal repression you already prepare under the account of law and order is necessary to pass your statutes in favour of oligarchy. I said those last time, in fact, on July 19, 2019. I continued to say: "Since your acceptance of the permanent austerity of the fourth memorial, what you actually promise the Greek people is without bread and suppression without recovery." I said that 12 months ago. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Today, we are faced with the fifth memorandum, which will impose on you and which you have accepted since 11 June at the Eurogroup by signing the joint communiqué which binds you to a primary surplus of time. But we at Mera25, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, are trying to show good faith. When your bill came to us, I personally read it trying not to have any prejudice, hoping, as always, that you would disprove us. Yesterday I was in a taxi and asked the driver: “Have you heard of this bill on protests, meetings? Yes, I've heard." I say to him, "What have you kept from it? Well, he tells me, so that fifty people don't close the road." Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, have other colleagues mentioned this, have Mr. Dendias tabled a presidential decree in 2013 under number 120(2) which resolves this issue, which gives the police all the means to prevent traffic from being hindered by small demonstrations? It was, if you'd like, the first red flag that something is wrong here in relation to your account about this bill. Look, ladies and gentlemen, every state in particular has an obligation to find a balance between state violence on the one hand and public order on the other. This applies to either you in the government or anyone else. Always the extent to which the prospect of state violence is being strengthened to ensure uninterrupted private and economic life - I am speaking your own language now, with the urban language - this level must be based on a cost-benefit analysis. What society has to win when the legislative frameworks are tightened up, when the police have more degrees of freedom towards the way of repression and what society has to lose. The basic idea, which I see within your bill, is this idea of the organizer of the demonstrations, which suddenly has some responsibilities towards the state and towards the citizens, and the idea that in order for there to be a demonstration there is not enough notification but permission is needed. I've always liked to make fair criticisms to my opponents and through their own perspective, to try to understand you, to feel you. You consider yourself a liberal party. How liberal are you? I am opposed to the fact that you have not even changed the number of Article 794/1971. It remained Article 3 and your bill of origin, which restores the idea that, for a meeting, a demonstration, a rally must be allowed. I'm opposed to that. I am still opposed if you want - not easily, but with great difficulty and pain of soul - the conflict between basic articles and extracts of your bill with John Locke's basic principle, which should be a guru as regards your liberalism, when we see on the one hand having objective responsibilities, which are loaded on the shoulders of an organised protester, but on the other, on the basis of naive subjective criteria of responsibility. Who will judge whether the organiser had taken the right measures or the measures that the law considers to be annulling its objective responsibility and civil liability? This is a basic violation of Locke's first principle. Let's move on. The liberal either that's Locke or John Stewart Mill, I imagine someone from New Democracy who wants to see himself or herself liberal, always boasts behind the need to protect private property. Private property in favor of everything, along with privacy, along with the private person. All right, let's judge your bill with that criterion which, of course, is not ours. How much are you protecting private property with this bill, Minister? Let me share an agony with you. If anyone has to protest to ask for the police's permission and doesn't take it, then the chances are greater the chances of the protest becoming and being violent and intent to violence are greater than if they didn't have to get the permission. Second, we're now going to protect private property. Until now, if a trader's shop is broken, it is compensated by the public. You, with what you're actually doing, refer the dealer, the shopmaster to the protest organizer, who's going to compensate for where he's going to compensate the shopmaster? From his personal property to a country where personal property has been liquidated and which you continue to liquidate by accelerating through the "HRAKLE" that you still have not frozen and this is a huge scandal for which you will be invited to respond to the Greek people? We are going to another basic principle of liberalism, the separation of powers and responsibilities. Let's talk about Montesquier. Is it possible to entrust administrative powers to judicial officers at the time of the protest, while conferring police powers on demonstrators? Of course, I imagine you understand that as liberals I rank to a very low degree, as Locke would have done, as John Stewart Mill would, as would all serious liberal politicians. Your most powerful paper is the tiredness of the citizens by the constant discontent, the tiredness of the citizens by the constant inconvenience. Let me admit that. There's a tiredness. The entire Greek people are tired because that means being in a deep debt prison. If you were really liberal, you would say to your own people that this is a lesson of democracy and liberalism. You would tell them that the price of freedom may also be the periodic suffering resulting from the spontaneous demonstration of people with whom we disagree. That's not what you're telling them. Instead, I see through you, I hear your words constantly attack social groups that protest. And you reminded me of something that I had first heard in 1979 from a Scottish trade unionist who told me the following in Britain in 1979, as soon as Thatcher had become Prime Minister. He said to me: "Those who are against demonstrations, strikes, street closures, syllables say that society suffers when industrial workers strike and close the streets. They say society suffers when the PPC workers strike and close the streets. They say that society suffers when teachers and students abstain from schools and close the streets. They say society suffers when nurses strike and close the streets. They say society suffers when railroads strike and close the streets. They say society suffers when workers in water companies strike and close the streets. They say society suffers when postalers strike and close the streets. Finally, Scottish trade unionist added: "It says society suffers when speeches - citizens close the streets to protest against war and for peace". And it came to light: "When I hear them say all this, I wonder what this theoretical society is, anyway, if not all those people who strike and go down the streets." Ladies and gentlemen, we are not Britain. We are a people who have built this Parliament on the basis of disobedience, the basis of rallying, on the basis of protests which had no authorisation from any police and any constitution. As you have chosen today to bring this debate to the plenary. I would remind you that on 8 July 1943 the people of Thessaloniki - and I also speak as an MEP in Thessaloniki - gathered in Shetalofos for a huge rally against the extension of the Bulgarian occupation to central Macedonia. Wrong date you chose to ask police permission for rallying and to abolish the spontaneous demonstrations, which are an integral part of our democratic history, our national formation and our spiritual tradition. Why don't we forget that if this building is not a palace, but it's Parliament because on September 3, 1843, the rebels without the permission of any vice-president, no police, no guards, gathered and demanded a constitution. In 1910 Eleftherios Venizelos at a demonstration on the Revision House, after the Wude Movement in 1909, had not obtained any permission from any police. In 1910, the same year, when the farmers rose up in Killer, they did not get the police permission. In 1936, when the smokers rose up in the great protest in Thessaloniki, they did not get the permission of the silk government. On October 29, 1940, even the fact that the government at that time said "OH" - and had done well - the day before, the great demonstration here in the Constitution the next day and she had not been licensed by the police. It was that day that Sicilyan noted in his diary that it was "the moment when the dictatorship of 4 August fell". Our national anniversary, ladies and gentlemen, of 28 October, imposed spontaneous, illegal demonstrations in 1941, 1942 and 1943. If our kids didn't go to fight with the Hitlers on the east front it was because of another rally without the police's permission. In 1943, the great anti-fascist rally took place at the funeral of Kostis Palama without the police permission. In December 1944, here from outside, great rallys shocked the capital, and the machine guns that shot the protesters, started the brotherly war. In the 1950 ’ s followed the major condolences for the Cyprus issue, again against the view of the police. The spearhead took the spontaneous rallys of the young Labraki and the "Anodotos" with the apostasy bringing new protests to one of which Sotiris Petroulas fell. Inside the junta, which inspires through the law and your Article 3 the ban on spontaneous protests, the funeral of George Papandreou, without any permission from the police, was transformed into a palliative protest. So did the Polytechnics, and so did the demonstrations of post-multipleism, such as those which left their last breath - and we know how - James Koumis and Stamatina Kanellopoulou. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you are not only unscrupulous with regard to our democracy, you are unscrupulous with regard to your own party. I am not talking about you, Mr Chrysochide, you are not giving birth to this party, but you who are, I would like to remind you - because you seem to have forgotten and allowed it - that at least some of you are supposed to still embrace the philosophical philosophy of radical liberalism. Right? Quiet. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Oh, some say 'yes', a minority now! Can you have an article here, Article 19(2)? I read: 'Presponsibility of the Violence Prevention Directorate is scientific research and development on the prevention of various forms and manifestations of violence, such as radicalisation'. What's that? Are you apologizing for the ERA, which, as you remember, refers to the 'romantic' and the violence that has arisen from ERA? Do you do self-criticism without knowing? Or have you dismissed the radical liberalism of Constantine Karamanlis? I guess the second one. Ladies and gentlemen, why is this all happening? As we said last year in the debate on your programme statements, it is because the memorandum is being implemented without repression and violence, state violence, and extremism and legitimacy and immunity for state violence. We talked about that last year. This year, things are worse. It is worse because because of the coronary we have deepened and accelerated the recession before. Let all this go that the coroner brought her. At this time we warned you that, at the end of 2019, the recession will return, as was done, with memoranda, with primary surpluses, with red loans which are divested and virtually everything that has been recovered in the private sector will be liquidated and exported to New Jersey and Delaware by your predators funds. Recovery will never happen, you know that, at least those who bring this bill. Because, as we said in the programme statements, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was with mathematical accuracy that the implementation of the fourth memorandum would also be suppressed at the funeral how much more than the fifth, because there is a pack of recession, 8% austerity and 10% of GDP. Refugee it! You'll deny it until you have an election. I hope you win them to implement it later. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable - and I will speak on staff a little - that any government turns our uniforms against their brothers, their families, who will protest on the streets. For whom? An oligarchy without borders. Mer25 will stand up to prevent you from doing just that, that is, what we predicted twelve months ago. With our proposals we are trying to be constructive. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal for a law on red loans, with tax rates, with institutional areas, so as to protect citizens so as to minimise the cause of social violence. But you, with 'yes', in everything, are creating conditions of social conflict. You're the ones responsible. We are operating as a truly European party from the start, making proposals on what our own government, our own state, should do about what the European Union should do. On 26 March I tabled a proposal for three points on what the European Central Bank, the Commission and the European Investment Bank should do. Part of this was the proposal - 26 March 2020 - the Central Bank to create, print 750,000, 000 euros, which represented 2 000 euros for every citizen of the European Union. Why did we propose that? Firstly, it is legal because it is not considered State aid because it is not State aid. Both the Dutch and the German, the Italian and the Greeks take 2,000 euros, as each American citizen took 1,250 dollars. This idea is neither left nor right. Thomas Paine started it and Milton Friedman continued it, because some of you don't even know your own political philosophy. This is a disgrace! At least find out what texts are supposed to support your thought. To God, read a little! Some say, "But what did they find again from Mera25? Should the Central Bank print 750,000,000 euros?" Look at Google and you will find three days after our proposal for the 750,000,000 euros, what Mrs Lagard announced. Can I talk to you? It was random - I'm not saying that he took it from me - but it's very interesting. He declared three days later that he'd print 750,000,000 euros. The difference is he gave it to the bankers. But don't tell me the Central Bank can't print, can it? When FINANCIAL TIMES consider such a proposal to be our excellent proposal, you and the channels of your interlocutor. Keep humiliating yourself. We are deeply democrat, we will not deprive you of your right to self-determination. On the one hand, then, we are tabling our proposals in the public debate and on the other hand, we are on the way. Yesterday we were the only parliamentary party that was outside, protesting against your bill, not so much for us - we are a parliamentary party, we will have no problem - but because as truly liberal we believe that you do not have the right to create conditions of state violence against any social group, even those we dislike and dislike. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, let me read to you something John Stewart Mill wrote it, which you have never read or forgotten. He wrote: "A state that overshadows its citizens in order to make them more obedient, even if the purpose is beneficial, at some point he will find that with shrinking citizens nothing important can be achieved". John Stewart Mill, "For Freedom" 1859. Ladies and gentlemen of the Memorandum Arc, now I include the missing KINAL and SYRIZA's present, fanaticism is to fight more, since you have lost your values. Radicalism is fighting harder because you haven't lost them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u189	Mrs Maria Head of New Democracy has the floor for six minutes and - logically - will be followed by Christos Dermenzopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, the positions of the representatives of the parties during the drafting of the bill in committee and today in plenary are a mirror of the perceptions of ideological approaches and payments, understanding and literacy of reality. They illustrate the real ideological difference between the country's political forces. They illustrate in the clearest and most unequivocal way the concept of democracy which each one of us has. Decoding all of these could well be a chapter in political science schools, so that tomorrow's political scientists can learn the different viewpoints of the political parties on matters of democracy and rights. I was amazed to hear colleagues from the Vice-President becoming praisers of the anarchy of the few. Close their eyes to them wickedly when democracy is based on many who, however, also respect the rights of minorities. Democracy is certainly not threatened by the rules. Whenever democracy was threatened, this happened because few did not respect the many. It was threatened when there were no rules or were not followed. So today, ladies and gentlemen, we are legislating. We're setting rules. Rules protecting democracy and guaranteeing us the right to sit together. And like every right, it has to be delimited, because otherwise it becomes abusive. In his pages the bill, except for the right of self-evident, also carries the consensus and acceptance of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people and society. A society that knows and respects, on the one hand, the right to assembly and, on the other, the right to democratic opinion and to disagreement, and on the other, the right of all of us to security, social peace, public order, respect for life and property. The defence of one right is limited to the point where it affects the substance and the core of another right. In a favoured democracy, individual and social rights are protected in exactly the same way. We cannot and will not allow extreme groups to define the centre of Athens and decide when and whether it will remain open. The citizens, as they saw there is a state during the period of the unprecedented health crisis, are now waiting for the rule of law to protect all the expressions of their rights, and that is precisely the objective of this bill. It is our duty and we are doing so to re-establish rules and to shield the smooth functioning of all the individual structures, social and economic, which so far has been the ravage of the ends. And that's because the rules were broken, because the extremities found a place of action. We're not here to give anyone ideological immunity. Our aim is to make progress and not to suppress ourselves. We can't let the center break, shops, pedestrians plunge, burn cars, close the streets. We cannot allow thirty, forty, fifty so-called 'prices of everything' to create a hustler to four million citizens. In this respect, the organiser of the process and the mediator of the authorities are institutionalised, with the legitimate aim of ensuring both the protection of the progress or demonstration and its absolute conduct, of course, and the public security and citizens' rights. And you have no doubt that this will deal with the well-known phenomena of the hamburgers that invade meetings and force the police authorities to intervene in the protection of public security. The draft law we are debating today is clear, without leaving a trace of misinterpretations. It shall not prohibit meetings and the expression of the citizens' right or a portion thereof. On the other hand, Article 6 expressly and unequivocally states that the ‘principle’ must ensure that the right of assembly is exercised in an absolute manner. In other words, the law requires the authorities of the State to ensure that citizens are entitled to assemble. Fortunately for our society, it is not a problem for citizens to express themselves publicly and freely, reminding us here, of course, that our party has played a decisive role in this direction when it was necessary. We say 'yes' to the right of assembly and protest. We also say a great 'yes' to the smooth conduct of social and economic life. But we say a great 'no' to the work of democracy by some organised minorities that stumble against the whole of society and the state. Everyone can exercise their democratic rights, demonstrate and express their views, but this will be done under conditions, with respect for personal property, human life and social peace. And where there is no respect for the law, there will of course also be sanctions, as provided for in Article 13, for criminal sanctions and civil liability. So that we can have the distinct limits, between democracy on the one hand and anarchy, lawlessness, impunity on the other. I'll borrow the information he carried to committee days ago, Mr. Kamines, and they come from the Greek Police for the period 2011-2015. A period of intense protests with monuments, with economic crisis, with SYRIZA then upwards, pending government. I am saying this to remind you of the climate of the days. From 2011 to 2015, then, they were held in the center of Athens on average every year a thousand four hundred seventy six protests. And listen to this: on average, only seventy of them had over a thousand participants. It was a period when the center of Athens was permanently closed. And it was not closed by massive demonstrations, but by a few dozen or hundreds, able to paralyse every activity, creating serious problems in the functioning of our millions of fellow citizens. The numbers are undeniable. With this draft law, ladies and gentlemen, it takes order throughout this story with demonstrations and marches. We invite you to see the reality and to get rid of your anachronistic ideoleptic krone. We call on you to vote on this bill that meets modern needs and is based on good European practices. The public's trust in the political leadership and state is unprecedented for Greek data and you must see it as a fact and assess it. With an ally of society in all this effort, we move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u191	Mr Dermenzopoulou has the floor from New Democracy and Mrs Rallia Christidou follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, the election a year ago of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is, in my view, a part of our political reality. For the first time, after years, there has been a apparent electoral and political victory for the forces of common sense and self-evident, on the representatives of populism and of the ideals which, unfortunately, dominated our country. As a result of this, it is also the bill introduced by the Ministry of Civil Protection to the House. In line with the requirements of Article 11 of the Constitution and Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the current draft law forms for the first time a modern framework in which it is effectively protected, both the intact exercise of the assembly of citizens and the protection of public security and socio-economic life in the cities of our country. In this direction, a number of new regulations are in place in this particular draft law, such as the creation of the institution of the demonstration organiser. This person, in other words, who will be responsible for the proper information of the authorities and the proper conduct of the meeting. Its main task will also be to organize concentration prevention in order to prevent unrelated people from joining it, with the sole aim of causing incidents and disasters. While if this is not done, it will become responsible for claims for damages caused during the concentration. In particular, the regulation of the bill enabling the consortium's organizer to bring an appeal to the S.H.E., should a meeting be prohibited in advance. While, finally, the possibility of banning meetings should also be seen as a very important one, since there is a constitutional obligation to protect the basic meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the arrangements that emphasise the preservation of social peace and normal political operation in our country, the bill in the second part contains a number of provisions aimed at both modernising the Greek Police and adopting beneficial provisions for members of the Security Councils. For example, I mention the fact that the Violence Prevention Directorate, a new agency, which will be directly subject to the Minister, will have as its principal task the development of actions concerning, in particular, the prevention of various forms and manifestations of violence, such as radicalisation, violent extremism, domestic violence and racial violence, intra-School violence and racism. Finally, I could not refer to the regulation of Article 20 providing teachers of primary and secondary education who are spouses of Greek police and fire department staff who will be able to work in educational units that will not be more than twenty kilometres from the police or fire service served by their husband or wife. Coming from the Evros Prefecture, a region with very geographical characteristics, I am well aware that this regulation has been a long claim for police and firefighting personnel, which is why I would like to congratulate the Ministry's political leadership that took the initiative and carried out such intervention. At this point I would like to ask you, Minister, another consistent request, both the trade unions of police officers and the Evros Border Guard Association, which is about ensuring that all police officers seconded to our territory are resident in the framework of the 'SUPIDA' border guard programme. These employees, apart from having now developed strong family and social ties in our region, are at the same time excellent knowledge of the region and their objects. A possible departure of these would likely pose significant problems for effective border guarding. Minister, during your term of office you have solved many time problems. I hope that you will be interested in the settlement of this issue which, as I said before, concerns not only this group but also the entire society of Evros. Ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of the government and the leadership of the relevant ministry is to reach wider consensus on voting for this bill. In the context of the well-trusted parliamentary dialogue, which we want to build, a number of proposals and improvements have been accepted in the past few days which have been tabled by all the anti-population members. In this light, therefore, I do not think there is room for micro-political tactics and ideological acronyms. The bill fully protects the constitutionally guaranteed right to the meeting, while putting an end to the hostage of the capital and to the other major cities of the country from fewer groups that endanger the safety and financial survival of the rest of the citizens and workers. That is why I call on all Members of Parliament to show political maturity in practice and to overcome the sterile ideological strains of yesterday, in voting for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u193	Mrs. Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA has the floor and Mr. Akiupis from New Democracy follows. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to discuss and vote for a bill that is the product of two evils, right-wing governance that is trying to rid society and the bad times. Bad governance itself has created this bad circumstance and I am explaining. Yesterday he closed off one year from the elections, one year with a New Democracy government. That is enough time to see the characteristics of this power. What are these? One basic: The hard class sign of its choices. The capital was supported, the party mechanisms, the final hydrocephalus and extremely expensive governmental pattern, the "degree", the party excellence without degrees, and of course the friends who are committed to the media government. What wasn't backed up? Workers, micro-enterprises, public school, national health system and real excellence through transparency and dignity. Also, the place from the Pecha list and you are buying a field, and even the crisis has become an opportunity in your hands to further elasticate working relations and reduce wages and labour rights further. Now the results of the government choices and no list of well-paid media can do the white one, so with this junction inspiration bill other solutions have been put in place so that the public space, the area of democratic expression of the citizens, now that the citizens have seen what the government of New Democracy is doing and react to, close. What's the pretext? But, of course - since morning, I've heard you say it - class and security. This bill allegedly prevents small concentrations from blocking the center. However, we know all the two presidential Decrees Nos 141/1991, Nos 130-133 and, of course, Nos 120/2013, which permits the police to ban concentrations for reasons of public security, but also to place small concentrations of demonstrators on the sidewalk, let us say the fifty people who close the centre and prevent other citizens from doing their jobs, in order not to cause more than is absolutely necessary to disrupt socio-economic life, as the Constitution explicitly requires. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, what is the need to put the police in a position of principle against a peaceful gathering or demonstration? Why should the citizen who wants to protest peacefully on something that affects him, for something that affects him, learn to view the Police as an enemy - and these working people are - and instead the Police on its side should have the greatest responsibility for choosing to ban a concentration? In addition to the unconstitutionality of such legislation, its logic is a bad, poor practice for the society of 2020 and free access to the public space and will increase precisely the problem that has come to solve. What public space are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Is it not hypocritical for the University to close for weeks in the name of the "long walk" without any provision, without any information and claiming that the centre is being tested by the mergers? How much hypocrisy now? Are you simply seeking to exclude citizens from a basic democratic right, from complaining and being informed without ombudsmen and also from informing their fellow citizens about their complaints, about things that might concern them and not know them, so that they will not get to their ears? Are the molds of your friends to you - with the undoubted always - media are no longer enough and you want to recruit practices from past dark times? Ladies and gentlemen, after forty-six years of democracy, in fact the New Democracy Government, the Mitsotakis Government becomes the first government of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipal rights for Greeks to participate freely in democratic gatherings. The logic of the organiser, who will be responsible for anything that happens at the same time and during a concentration, is, on the one hand, aimed at deterring the concentrations, since the organizer in question will be charged with a responsibility that cannot completely control the lies - and, on the other hand, the state is withdrawn from all responsibility and, on the other hand, any person who is injured should be legally abdicated by the organizer for compensation. This logic rests with the social automation cultivated by the New Democracy, which the Right has always cultivated and which turns one social group towards the other. He's got one man fighting with the other across the street and he's pulling out the state as a guarantor of legality and democracy. Unfortunately, this bill makes a mechanism to monitor what concentrations are going to be excellent, and so it will be done and what not social criticism, and perhaps even indignation will not go to you but to the police. And what police are you really interested in? Are you interested in the police that once again made her a tool? The organizations and unions and police and firefighters are against the bill. The police have never yet found any reflection on the current legislation. Never. The bill proves, ladies and gentlemen, that New Democracy's words as Opposition for Wrestling were purely pretexts. A real target is the protesters. Stop taking advantage of Marfin's dead. Your bankers are responsible for anti-social and anti-linguistic and irresponsible policies that led the country to bankruptcy in 2009. They're responsible for Marfin's dead. We in SYRIZA do not forget Marfin's dead either, but we do not forget the thousands of people who killed themselves from your irresponsible policies at the time. And we ask you - and I am closing with that, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance - that it is accidental that this bill comes a week after the front page of the newspaper 'TAEA' asking what is going to happen with the bill on marches? Who finally legislates in this place? Who governs this place, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Your Government or the interests you serve and your sponsors? Unfortunately, for the Greek people, we consider the second. So rename yourself to a new EPE and stop mocking not ourselves, but yourself and all your liberal right-wing voters have left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u195	Next speaker, Mr Dionysios Epipipe, from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, the government with today's bill not only implements its basic pre-election commitment but also covers a legislative gap that has existed for decades in the country and of course clearly answers and unequivocally tells all those fellow citizens who have been asking the state for years to protect their own rights. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Indeed, the right to assemble, as provided for and protected by Article 11 of the Constitution and Article 11 of the Convention on Human Rights is the oldest right to collective action guaranteed in the Greek Constitutions by the Constitution of 1866. This is, indeed, a right which is one of the pillars of a modern democratic and multi-speaking society. Constitutionally guaranteed, however, are the rights that workers, entrepreneurs and freelance professionals have, people who fight every day to be able to offer the necessary to their families, all those who are trying to develop their economic activities, to transfer or receive their children from school, to trade with the public or banks, to move from and to their jobs and many other social groups. All these people have constitutionally guaranteed rights to security, social peace, public order, respect for life and protection of property, the importance of which is as great as that of the other constitutional rights. So what needs to be underlined is that in a favoured society, the right to freedoms and freedoms from all its members should be guaranteed at the same time. The exercise of rights and freedoms is therefore always subject to the self-evident restriction of the non-infringement of other rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens. This is also provided for in Article 11(2) of the Constitution, which restricts the right to paragraph 1: Outdoor meetings must be prohibited by a reasoned decision of the police authority in general if there is a serious risk to public security in a certain area if it is a serious disturbance to socio-economic life as defined in the law. So by law, he defines the article. This implementing law provided for in the Constitution was not adopted until the present Government deposited the bill. So today we are establishing a modern legal framework for public outdoor meetings, which is compatible with the principle of proportionality and fully in line with the requirements of Article 11 of the Constitution and Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Of course, this bill finds the Opposition clearly opposing. The arguments known and expressed: we progressives, democrats, modernists, you Hunters, conservatives, anachronists with cryptophageal tendencies, etc. But, ladies and gentlemen, undeclarations are something that we know is well held. The question is: will we hear a substantial argument for all of this? Are you blaming us for what? Because we bring the House a clear and complete regulatory framework, always in accordance with the Constitution and the principles of Community law, which will put a order on the ground, so that ten people can no longer be able to organise at all and without any control, any preconditions, close down the centre of the city, paralyse traffic and disprove the country. Are you blaming us for bringing a bill that actually preserves and protects the right to assemble from the arbitrary practices of the past? You forget, of course, that you were the ones who, in 2017, banned the concentration of POSY in the Exarchy Square, based on legal ambiguities of the existing legislative framework. And, of course, in order to say this and everything, in the context of this lack of the legislative framework, property and property were destroyed, our fellow citizens were injured, even human lives were lost. These are events that we will never forget, events that have hit the foundations of our democracy and which have shown how necessary there is a regulatory framework that ensures the balance between the rights and freedoms of all of us. Let us say that it is characteristic that the centre of Athens, as the Minister mentioned earlier, often remains closed two to three times a day. Obviously no one says to remove or even limit the core of the right to assembly, the right to protest about what he considers fair and to express his opposition to things. This draft law simply seeks to get one class into order and to stop the abuse of that right at last and at the expense of the rest of the citizens. Furthermore, let me remind you that both the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the overwhelming majority of the internal legal orders of the European States on the one hand recognise the importance of protecting the right to the Greek assembly, but on the other hand recognise the State's right to restrict and dismantle the meeting when it is necessary to ensure the protection of citizens and their other, of course, rights. It is even noteworthy that most of the European States' internal legal classes regulate this issue in a similar way. Such arrangements will be seen in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Croatia. The list is long enough to report it. Don't tell me that all these countries are pigeons and cryptographic! In conclusion, I should like to point out the following: at some point there should be a clear distinction between democracy and anarchy. The fact that there is one right does not mean that another should be abolished. We are not and should not be a state in which lawlessness and impunity dominate. Instead, we should always set limits and rules so as to facilitate the effective exercise of the rights and freedoms of all of us and when I say all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u197	Mr. Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Lazarides from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, good evening. Because I don't have a manuscript, I'm forced to change what I was about to say. And I am forced to change what I was about to say, listening to the speech of the President of Mera25, by Mr Yianni Varoufakis. Mr Varoufakis came here at the Step of the House, as he had the right of course, and unblocked an indictment against the New Democracy, saying that we are not liberal. He threw away some names like Locke, John Stewart Mill and Milton Friedman, to sound nice: "You don't know, I know the liberal philosophers," I assure him that we know them and we're not liberal enough. We may not be, Mr. Varoufakis, quite liberal. We need to be even more liberal. Do you know what liberalism means, Mr. Varoufakis? Respect for the individual and freedom, which the Left has been destroying for all these years, which has been a dominant ideological power in the country since 1974. And that's what we're coming today to heal. I knew this bill would cause intense reactions and intense conflicts. But Mr. Varoufakis comes and teach us a history lesson, what to say. I'm not going to 2015. This will be written in history and will be judged by Mr. Varoufakis from history. But because he also told us things that are not true and because he told us that he knows history, while we do not know, he said, it became a parliament when September 3, 1843 became a revolution. It didn't happen then. This building did not become a parliament because of the revolution on September 3, 1843. Indeed, it became the revolution of 1843 by Dimitrios Kallergis, the leader of the military force of two thousand men who came with the weapons and imposed - and well they did - the Constitution to the then king, I merciful God, Otto. The building, however, remained a palace and after Otto's eviction in 1862 and ceased to be a palace, and the royal family ceased to dwell here because of not some demonstrations but because of two fires that, if I remember correctly, one became in 1884 and the other in 1909. I don't remember the dates very well, I might be wrong there. If Costas Tsouulas was here, he could fix me. Because of this fact. Mr. Varoufakis said something else which is outrageous. I just got to listen to it. He obviously doesn't understand the gravity of what he said. He compared the most heroic, revolutionary, the most wonderful uprising of the Greeks in 1943 against the Bulgarian settlement in Thessaloniki with the demonstrations now taking place. He compared the heroes of 1943 who were at risk of their lives, who had before them Gestapo, with the well - carved trade unionists, who gather thirty people and protest for flea fuck to spend their time, because otherwise they cannot justify their position. It is shameful for the heroes of 1943, as well as for the Greek Police. He compared the Greek police with the Gestapo. Does Mr. Varoufakis understand the gravity of his words? In 1943 we owned by the nazis. Nazis see the Greek state and Greek Constitution today as Mr Varoufakis? Unfortunately, however, this is the left mindset, a so-called false revolutionary attitude. They think they compare themselves, see themselves somewhere like Che Guevara or Lenin when he occupied the winter palace. None of this stuff is. You're comfortable. You've made all the occupations comfortable because you knew there's no one to catch you from your ear and put you in it. Since 1974 all protests have been in favour of protesters and against the social group. There have of course been great demonstrations. When there's a big protest, who's gonna say anything? If hundreds of thousands of people come down in the center of Athens, and Chrysochide has nothing to say. He'll sit as long as he can get things together. You will respect the number of thousands of people. But here we are talking about the thirty, forty, forty, forty-five - I repeat trade unionists - who have seen them and paid them very dearly in this place since 1974. So this false revolution may end. I will close with a phrase I have heard and I am really hurt, because I think that is the attitude of most people in SYRIZA. I heard Mrs Rallia Christidou earlier say that the three dead of Marfin were killed by the bankers. I consider it at least an insult to the memory of these three people, including the pregnant Angelica, to say this conversation. No, Mrs. Christidou. He killed them a band of bogus professionals. That's the truth. And they are the same people who went and desecrated the monument that was set up for these dead Marfin. The bankers did not desecrated it, they desecrated it by these false revolutionaries who indirectly turn their eyes to SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Mercos Lazarides from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Papaliou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that even if we have not experienced it ourselves, which I doubt we have all read in the newspapers and news sites or heard from television and radio titles such as the following: "Concentrations and marches in the middle of the afternoon", "Strengthening the metro in a Constitution, Evangelism, Monastiraki" or "Damage in shops caused hooded hooded hoodiers who invaded the course." And I do not need to talk about the negative effects on tourism and therefore on the country's economy from foreign press reports. Why should we have linked the democratically self-evident right of assembly and protest to the suffering of much more people who have nothing to do with this meeting or protest and who are likely to agree with the contents of the meeting or protest, but who ultimately find that it has a negative, often injurious impact on their daily lives? The question at the moment is a rhetorical one. Let us now come to the issue that concerns us. What are we doing with this draft law? We're just making rules. No ban, no curfew. We are aiming, not at the course, over-examination, abuse, violence and lawlessness, not at protest. We shield the essence of the opinion at the expense of the uncontrolled impression. Our aim is to achieve a harmonious combination of the right to assembly and the right to free movement and the exercise of citizens' professional activity. And, obviously, there's a reaction. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that you are reacting because you have to react, because you consider it a party decoration to defend the right of assembly. And what proves the crocodile of your crying is that we do the same. We are clearly defending the right to assemble in order and in a manner which does not, however, affect the equally important right of workers, business and travellers! We are protecting the right horizontally and it goes without saying that, behind the protection of every right, there is an obligation behind it. We should therefore not have any differences, but we do. And that makes us proud, because for us this draft law is a resounding response of the common democratic logic to the irrationality and hostage of obsolete and populist micro-party logic, meaning our determination to strengthen the rule of law, to restrict abuse, but also lawlessness in every form, which you obviously did not do. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be tempted to ask you the question: what is it for you democracy? Because from what you have said these days, I am not sure that we have the same understanding, and I am sad indeed, because unfortunately in the committee but also today, there have been unauthorised designations. Some even talked about the inspiration of a bourgeoisie. But the dictatorship, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, is not seeking ways to ensure fair conditions for all, as we do. Diplomacy, authoritarianism is to arbitrarily put under your fellow citizens' hostage who may, on a case-by-case basis, constitute an opposing majority or even cause targeted costs in order to create impression. And that is something you have repeatedly referred to. So I'll tell you what we mean by democracy. The Republic is neither the dictatorship of the majority nor the dilute popular invoicing of minority rights. The absolute criterion of democracy is to ensure conditions of proportionality and equality, and that is what we do with this draft law. You should learn, then, that any political action - and the protest is an entirely political action - must have the same democracy as the one that gives it the right to express itself, not to smack its fundamental values, must strengthen and return the democratic dividend back to society, not prevent it from operating. It is for us democracy to show practically zero tolerance to "Ruviks" and other hooded biscuits, what you consider your own children expressed. Do you still think of them? If you don't agree with that, I have bad news for you. Obviously you have learned democracy wrong. And we also have bad news, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for those who were hostage the social group to serve their small trade union gains. Trade unionism is the claim of the political and economic interests of the working class, not to ensure suffering for the rest, because a successful demonstration was not the one that finally resolved the demand for which it was made, but the one most troubled the world. And I will end with this, I have not referred to specific provisions of this draft law, because I have sought to defend its basic visa. If I had to stand on one, if this law were to apply, the culture of the demonstrations would still be different, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and on 5 May 2010, then perhaps the pregnant Angelic Papathanasopoulos, Friday Zulia and Emenina Tsakalis would still be alive, because according to this draft law when a meeting is turned into an outbreak of serious crimes and serious criminal offences, it is quite simply dispersed, and this rule, consistent with every modern state of law, can prevent the loss of other lives in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like, please, to use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u202	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, I'll only need a minute. Things have been heard, in my opinion, in this Chamber a moment ago. For the record, everything we say in here has been recorded for the record, and each of us is responsible for what he says. However, I will have to repeat that Mr Varoufakis told the ministers that "with this bill you are looking for uniforms for our Greek children against their brothers, other young people as well as our Greece, who happen not to wear uniforms". Those are his words. Also, Mr Varoufakis said that the same mechanisms of repression were used in Greece in every decade either during the 1960s or during the Bulgarian wars. And since a colleague mentioned this last one, he would force me to remind him of the following: I ran to Google to all the stories about the period for Greece. "The motorbike part of the Greek village was notorious for its cooperation with the Germans at the time, it was made up of donor anti-communist spaceguards. This infamous motorised section was established by Metaxas during the dictatorship of 1939, since then he has collaborated with the SS and has also arrested and executed Greek resistance citizens, members of the National Liberation Movement. This was the infamous motorbike part of the Greek Habitats.” Merra25 does not do that, Mr. Loverdos, the relatives in the party that governs today and represented did it in that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u205	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u206	Ask him to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u207	Retract what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u208	He said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u209	He didn't say your resignation SS. Please. He didn't say anything like that, don't falsify his words. I heard what he said, I don't want to repeat it. Mr. Loverdo, you're a high-priced journalist...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u210	We know Greek, Mr. Vitsa!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u211	I'm not saying you don't know Greek either. You know Greek. Well, please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u212	It is a disgrace, it is a violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u213	Your parliamentary representative has asked for the floor. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I am sorry because I know his fellow Member and know his democratic feelings and decency, I think he has been lured in wanting to cover the leader of his party, who, in fact, also said some things at the end of the speech, composed the story in his own way and actually made a parallel of the Greek Police today with the forces of suppression of Gestapo during the occupation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u215	That's never happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u216	That's how we understood, we can see the Minutes. In any case, I understand that you didn't want to identify these two concepts and obviously you didn't want to identify our prolongation or even some branches of our prolongation at these times and with these habits. That's what I understood. So that our colleagues and I, if you want to clarify it, do not stir up either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u217	Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. You are absolutely right, Mr Levane. I'm not in any mood to identify your lineup with it. I said something very specific, I said that it is at least funny to blame Mr Varoufakis and Mera25, which has nothing to do with all this. Mr Varoufakis - Practically, fortunately, there are - has never identified the Greek Police with Gestapo, because that would be insurmountable, unacceptable, and particularly because Mr Varoufakis said that the children of Greek Police are Greeks, who have such legislations against other Greeks. That is what I also supported, and then had to say, of course, because history exists, there is a fact that part of the Greek police - which was a violation of the ideals of the Greek police, that was not the Greek police, the real dictatorship did Metaxas - cooperated with the Germans and, of course, that the domiciles and battalists did not come from either the Communist Party or the Left, they came from the extreme right. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u219	Mr Gregoryid, I think that the necessary explanations have been given, there are the Minutes. Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through my position on this bill, a reply will also be given precisely to the different concept of democracy that we and you the rulings have, as the previous colleague of the New Democracy said. The purpose of the bill is perfectly clear. Its content, first and foremost, is illustrated in the provision of Article 19, in which radicalisation appears as one of the forms and manifestations of violence, the responsibility of the Violence Prevention Directorate, which is set up as a new address of the Ministry of Civil Protection. In this regard, ideas are being persecuted, since radicalisation as a term refers to ideas that deviate from established perceptions and which de facto shape behaviours that may change or overthrow the established, socio-economic and political things. Moreover, the purpose of the bill is from everything propaganda is said and heard by the well-known media or, rather, misinformation. They have taken place all twenty million euros from the sponsor of the New Democracy government, as well as from the arguments of the rapporteur, the MPs of the New Democracy and the responsible Minister, who reveal and testify to the intentions of the government, the purpose of the bill. These intentions and purpose correspond to the core of the basic concept of New Democracy's logic that the exercise of constitutionally guaranteed rights includes by definition criminal actions as a rule. The New Democracy considers that individual and social rights constitute a concession of power to citizens. But these rights were granted after hard social struggles, uprisings, revolutions, which means they were conquered. What does the exercise of the right of assembly have to do with illegal criminal acts? And what does civil protection have to do with the exercise of the right of assembly, as is the government's majority showing it by perverting it? By exercising this right, the reverse happens. Citizens protect their freedoms, their conquests that the current government is being destroyed or abolished. The draft law is supposed to regulate the right of assembly. However, this is not the case, since it is attempting to limit it to cancellation and abolition, i.e. the right to assembly, as any demonstration is potentially forbidden. The contents of the bill, which relate to the right of assembly, have three dimensions: constitutional, social and political. With regard to the constitutional dimension, the exercise of the right to assembly shall be subject to the authorisation of the police authority, since its failure to notify it leads to its dissolution. Furthermore, the right to assemble is fully linked to a number of other rights and freedoms, such as freedom of opinion, expression, speech, collective labour rights, but also to other citizens' rights for the free development of their personality, since the meetings aim to implement all of them for the promotion and promotion of issues, to call for demands. Consequently, the restrictions on the right to assembly concern these freedoms, these rights, which only by freedom of organisation or participation in gatherings, marches, demonstrations, i.e. public demonstrations, in public space and collectively can be exercised. As regards the social dimension, social confrontation, social struggles take place and take 'carcas and bones' through the exercise of the right of assembly, which is an individual right, which is exercised collectively. And the collective action developed through the right of assembly is the means of those social strata that do not have or have minimum access to other media, known media or other steps of expression that differ from the dominant viewpoints. The bill reminds us of the abolition of the battle of order, which another unmistakable New Democracy Minister had previously attempted! Finally, with regard to the political dimension, the crisis, the result of the pandemic and the neoliberal policies of the New Democracy, will lead to a recession, an unemploy­ment, further inequality, and the poverty of the middle and populaces, which are manifested and manifested with a greater product intensity of time, as things are getting worse and worse. Of course, this applies mainly to youth, whose expectations, plans and future are being cancelled. That is why the choice of time for depositing the bill is not random. Let's not forget that the admonition, recommendation, or rather the mandate of the newspaper "THA", not of the DOL but of the IMO, had been preceded. This is a bill for the future. It is a bill of threat, extortion, to create a climate of fear and terror for citizens in order to prevent or restrict the protests, the manifestation of discontent, the outcry against the Government of New Democracy. It is well-known - I repeat, as I have said in committee - that when the left hand of power, namely the policy in favour of many, politics with a social dimension, weakens, the right hand of power, that is, authoritarianism and repression, it is being made stronger. That's what happens with the bill. One last thing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. A bill will be passed that will not be implemented. Because life, which you, with your policies, are strangling, and all those whose lives and rights are being violated, will actually overthrow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, too. Mr. Himararas from New Democracy has the floor and Mr. Hadjivassiliou follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have only completed a year since the 7 July elections in which the Greeks gave the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis a clear mandate to set up a powered government, a clear mandate to leave yesterday what is separated by the Greeks, a clear mandate to change Greece. Greeks on 7 July 2019 asked us to move quickly on to those reforms that will address the many and accumulated problems created by the 10-year-old economic crisis. They asked to close the door to unnecessarily controversy and, of course, to populism. They asked for consistency of words and works. The new government has shown from the outset that it will be ready to respond to the citizens' demands, that it has not tried, as in the past, to cast its vote and then to draw up the policies it will implement. For the first time members of the Ministerial Council have been given specific legislative directions, directly linked to the programmable announcements of our proclamation. From that date on, the first meeting of the Ministerial Council until today, we voted for eighty of a bill, without any discount, with the ultimate consequence of words and works. In the same spirit of solvency and credibility, the bill we are discussing today is moving. It is a bill that finally ensures that a modern European city is not paralyzed because self-invited minorities are using the right to assembly. It covers an existing gap in the protection of individual and social freedoms provided for in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have all witnessed tragic situations in the name of demonstration, march, protest. Let us remember only the tragic events in MARFIN where three innocent people died, the countless broken shops and the burnt cars, but also the hundreds of business arsons. Let us remember the phenomena of brawls and other extremist elements that enter the peaceful meetings and cause serious problems, leaving behind a city broken down. SYRIZA's colleagues, who are asking for the withdrawal of the bill, are you aware that on the days when the turnover is going down in most shops it is falling by up to 75%? Over the last decade in the capital, some forty-five thousand marches have been recorded, nine hundred of them in the past one and a half years, with the center of Athens staying closed on average about three times per working day. According to official study data prepared by the National Confederation of Greek Trade, 62% of the stores demand the movement of ministries from the centre. 67% of stores use rolls to protect them from material damage. This is where questions come from. Do you really know how a shopping store operates, how the turnover of the month is distributed over the twenty-five working days, how many days the receipts a business needs to make its obligations, pay the staff, their rental suppliers and the ECHO? I'll tell you, for those you don't know, because I've been doing this job for the last 15 years. From the twenty-fifth working days of the month, the receipts of the first 10 days will come to pay suppliers, banks and CECE. Over the next ten days, the company has been waiting for the receipts to prepare the next month's payments on payroll, rent, tax and insurance contributions. In the past five working days of the month, the professional is waiting to get what he is doing to live his own family and, of course, to keep that he can keep to cover unforeseen costs. This is how 99% of small businesses operate and in the center of Athens. Counted beans. What do you think can be cut from everything I mentioned before? How can the center's operations survive? Have you wondered how much the lost time of boycotting and chaos in the Greek economy is worth in total? Well, that's what we're changing today! We say we can no longer sustain this chaos created daily by the mobilisation of small groups. Fifty and a hundred people are closing down central roads and causing suffering to hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. It is not possible to paralyse the economic activity in the city centre, to force professionals almost daily to download rolls. No other advanced Western world country is going on. England and France, countries with a long tradition in the demonstrations and the first to enact the right to assembly, have voted on relevant legislation. The same is true in the United States, a country that was one of the first to enshrine the right to meet with the first amendment. We know very well that there is no provision in this bill that prevents any citizen from demonstrating. There are, however, many who at last hamper the abuse of the right to expression and the assembly. The bill does not prohibit citizens from expressing their demands, but lays rules, puts an end to impunity, a stop to black hoods, an end to anarchy. Ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy, we believe that the right to the public meeting is democratic, undeniable and must be protected. But the rights of many must also be protected against the arbitrary nature of the few. It is the state's duty to ensure social peace and peace. This debt is being served today and I call on you to put aside micro-political logic, I invite you to agree to the self-evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u223	Mr Hatzidakis has the floor from New Democracy and will be followed by Mr Callianos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to assemble is fundamental and recognised by the Constitution. Article 11 states explicitly that 'Greeks have the right to meet quietly and without weapons'. It continues that "in public meetings, police can be present" and adds that "the meetings can be banned by reasoned decision of the police if there is a risk of security and social and economic life is threatened". This right is therefore one of the most important because of its dual character. It incorporates the individual right to expression and, at the same time, is a manifestation of a public right with a strong political character. Unfortunately, in recent years, however, the right to protest has been abused. Works daily, with few and often violent protesters, paralyse cities and even the national streets, causing economic and social unrest. Unfortunately, this abuse necessitates the importance of demonstrations and detests the democratic right of assembly. Today, therefore, it is the government and the Ministry's intention to finally enter a class, a framework for demonstrations in the public space, but with respect to the Constitution. No right to be abolished at all. On the contrary, today and tomorrow we are voting for the balance between the right to assemble and the simultaneous protection of the rights of other citizens, always with respect for individual freedoms. The New Democracy has, moreover, demonstrated its sensitivity to these issues. That is why the crowns for supposedly fascist attitudes are out of place and time, unfortunately. Furthermore, this bill fully respects the case law of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the guardian of freedoms in Europe. It also has all those provisions to ensure everyone's rights, organisation and coordination, cooperation with the authorities, public prosecutors and the possibility of recourse to justice, and, indeed, effective and very rapid temporary protection is provided by the highest court in the country. Also, in the context of respect for collective memory, there is no need for specific procedures for demonstrations such as the Polytechnic and the Protomagia. Attention, though! When the popular feeling requires spontaneous demonstrations, the law provides for proper flexibility. And because a lot has been heard about the cops here today in this Chamber, we must recognise that they are working on a daily basis for the safety of all of us, despite the dangers they face. So today we in the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, have not discovered the wheel! We are doing what other European democracies do. We are all talking about it for many years, but when it comes to decision, some people are back. We therefore support the fact that, in order for the law to be implemented, we need the greatest possible political understanding and that is why, here today, we are calling for consensus from the opposition, showing a good mood for all powers. A number of changes have already been made to the original text by the Minister, and that is because we are not dogmatic. Others spoke of the letter of the Constitution and secretly machineryed ways of breaking it. In the meantime, the revelations about what was going to stand against democracy these days. The New Democracy, therefore, is faithful to the principles of the rule of law. It protects everyone's rights, but with respect for the country's constitution. Unfortunately, SYRIZA today exaggerates his criticism and does not propose anything constructive. There have been designations such as 'teraturist', 'junta', 'orbanisation'. Same from Mera25. In other words, they heard heavy expressions, without those who told them to have weighed their contents. And that, unfortunately, is sad. Others are again inciting people to disobedience and non-implementation of the law, showing disrespect to the rule of law. The laws we are voting on, ladies and gentlemen, must be respected by everyone. That's what the Constitution says, that's what common sense says. Finally, with this bill, we support the market, the shopkeeper, the worker in the city centers, the one who loses his patience, his time, his customers, his work, his income. The Constitution stipulates that everyone has equal rights and obligations. So I wonder: What do you respond to professionals from the centre of Athens and the other major cities who give a daily survival match, who see their incomes nullified because of the mobilisations that shut the city and prevent consumers? So why not all agree on mutual respect as necessary? So today we are voting on equality and proportionality in the exercise of rights. We are determined to proceed, because the conditions are mature. We therefore call on you all to take this step together in a more European Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u225	Mr Callianos now has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mrs Pipilis, also by the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Calliane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not come to discover the powder. It does not serve any great innovation but common sense, which, unfortunately, following the debate that is taking place, I have to say is absent from the Qualified Opposition. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are we still talking about whether we should get rules into the demonstrations? In fact, we are still discussing whether in a modern European country the exercise of rights should be at the same time for all members of society? Do you really think that what you say about junta, about making idiosyncrasies and logic can be heard seriously by citizens? I am not the one who will tell you what opposition you are going to make and how you should deal with this particular issue. But what I can tell you is that what you say has a naphthalene odour and shows that nothing really wants to change in this place. With slogans of the 1980s you come to place yourself in today and not only for this bill but also for most of the issues that concern society. After all, you proved it with your governance, where you sought to put Greece in a time machine and turn it back many decades. The citizens, however, gave you their answer and indeed it was strong. Ladies and gentlemen, this legislative initiative essentially comes to balance constitutional rights, that is to say, the constitutional right of assembly with respect for public security, just as Article 11 of the Constitution requires. It attempts, in short, to formulate a modern legal framework for the exercise of the right of assembly and, in particular, for the conduct of public meetings. The aim is not to weaken this fundamental right but to shield it, because only when there are clear rules, rights are shielded. And you know it very well. The protection of public security and socio-economic life does not function inhibit the right to protest, but reinforcements. Suspensively it works for those who violate the Constitution not to protest, as very reasonably they could do and protest, but to destroy, vandalise, burn private and public property with victims even human lives. We all know what happened to Marfin and neither of us has the right to forget nor be blinded. Has anyone ever come out of SYRIZA to condemn the motorbikes at that time that burnt so many people alive? And those who so far insist on saying: 'What is wrong with the molotovs?' in fact, not only do they respect the memory of the victims, but they undermine the right to protest and demonstration themselves. And, yes, you remember very well - and you will never forget - that people have been killed in MARFIN by molotovs and, indeed, among them a pregnant woman. Ladies and gentlemen, there is so much noise from SYRIZA, on a subject which is eroded in all the civilised states of the world. You also know very well and do what you don’t understand. There is so much noise about something that applies to all European countries. There's so much noise, though, why? Because it simply ended up in a morbid state of forty-five years, which did not serve anyone other than professional protesters and the industry of protests that had been based on the backs of the rest of society, the shopkeepers in the center of Athens, the people who could not go to work or go to their destination, because few - even few - were - so they decided and closed all the streets. It does not make sense to paralyse every day the centre of the capital and other cities, because fifteen people, twenty or thirty want to protest. They can protest without paralyzing the capital. We all have a personal experience. I have to tell you that three to four times a week, at least, I come to the House. I live in Glyfada, south suburbs. Three to four times a week. Half the time, at least, this year when I'm a congressman, the center of Athens is closed. The move begins long before the Olympic columns of Dios and we are forced to take the round of Athens to arrive in the House. This means that we are eating more than one hour of our time to get to Parliament, which means that many shops at that time do not work, which means that many shops at that time cannot be accepted by customers. Is this a state of affairs, do you think, that all of us can experience it every day? Don't you get tired of this? Do you consider that too reasonable? And not just get tired of us. We're the last ones. It tires all the world who is indignant and is in the process of making the round of Athens to reach the center of the city. It's not tiring, it's not humiliating, isn't it scary every time, because fifteen people wanted to shut down the whole center? The result of all this is the creation of a booth, as I have told you, and the citizens suffer incredible suffering. In this direction, it is also very important for the Ministry of Civil Protection to inform citizens of planned meetings - it is very important - and also the necessary traffic regulations - that drivers should know in advance about the demonstrations, their timing and the roads they may close in order to adapt their movements accordingly. What more reasonable, what more European, what more beautiful, what better right? I don't understand why you're complaining. This shows practical respect for the citizen and his rights. The establishment, too, of the organiser, who will act as a mediator with the police, creates the necessary and necessary conditions to ensure the smooth running of the course, as is the case in the other countries of Europe. Nothing insane and nothing extreme. Unreasonable and extreme is the attitude of those who do not care about the protection of society as a whole. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. For example, from 2010 to 2016 there were - you hear - eleven thousand forty-five demonstrations in the center of Athens. Eleven thousand forty - five protests in six years, about fifty gatherings on average a month, paralyzing each one of them the city centre and any economic and social activity in it. Finally, it must be understood that few people cannot hold the rest of society in hostages. Essential attitudes belong to other times and our society has been overtaken by them long ago. Get the hammer! There's no other way! From the conquests in the universities where few minorities decided by force to close schools, the conversion of Exarches into indestructible lawlessness by a hahakalaki dragon, the occupations of public and private buildings and the daily paralysis of the Athens Centre by few protesters, it becomes clear that society has been hostage for decades. The current Government of New Democracy with its new trade union law, with the abolition of asylum law in universities, the restoration of legality in Exarcheia, the evacuation of the occupied buildings and the legislation to which it sets a clear framework for public meetings, implements its commitment to the citizens, who, ladies and gentlemen, have chosen it to become a normal, modern European country that respects its citizens and ensures the rights of society as a whole and, of course, belongs to the hard core of Europe and therefore we must all be happy about it. I conclude with the following: When few minority interests effectively violate the rights of society as a whole, then democracy gradually slips into minority tyranny, which the Left insists on overlooking, because that is why it demands not only the micro-political interest, but, above all, because it believes that by downgrading the quality of democracy it will be able to convince its ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u227	Mrs Fotini Pipili has the floor from the New Democracy. Then Mr. Katsafandos will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all as a Member of the 1st of Athens and as a citizen and resident of the centre of the Municipality of Athens, I would like to congratulate you, because you have dared the rest of the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to finally bring the sword to a halt, to cut off the gordian bond of the afflicted citizens, residents, professionals and passers to our small village, the Greek capital. Because I heard ironically about the sardines and vandalism that took place last night and about the cost, and because I am a citizen of Athenians and my own municipal receipts were bought, at least, he responded to what the Mayor of Athens told us about the sardines, the fact that they are specialists not to be vandalized and destroyed by the sprays. And this for the Athenians we know how much we pay for the municipality budget to clean statues, monuments, houses, parks, etc., is something very important. Why has there not been a survey, in fact, on this subject, to end the whole process and, at least, not to hear all of these atrocities about a fascist bill, all these gross insinuations? Only a survey of Greeks and especially the Athenians would have solved the problem immediately. But read, ladies and gentlemen, some, carefully the Constitution. Because here some of us have presented specifically from the left wing and from the JRC that there is the sacred right of assembly in the Constitution. Of course, there is no more sacred right than any article of the Greek Constitution. Sacred are all the provisions laid down in the Constitution. So Article 11 on assembling is just as sacred as Article 5, which allows the citizen to live freely without, of course, insulting the rights of others. We are going to the European Court of Human Rights, which I follow closely because I have been at the Greek delegation of the Council of Europe for years. This famous European Court of Human Rights, which is quite rightly applauded by the Left and by many of us when condemning Greece for unacceptable acts, either by the police or by the civil servants, stipulates in Article 11 that there is a case for the cooperative to be subject to restrictions, which are laid down by the law of the state in question and which are necessary in a democratic society to ensure the security of citizens, which is confirmed by the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. Now we're actually going. You are constantly talking about poor populaces for the non-preferentials. I say, in connection with the time-consuming demand of the Athens Trade Association: the Athens Trade Association naturally owns representatives of the poor people's layers, who simply have the sacred right to go to work, to enter the client and he freely, to let the money, to be able to pay tax, to be able to pay the IKA and the employee's wages. Because the businessmen of the northern suburbs you imagine, a lot of people in here, of course, do not agree to go down to Athens and the multipathy center, because they are all located in the northern suburbs and the southern suburbs. And if necessary, they also get a helicopter to go to their business. Have you ever been there, ladies and gentlemen, because I'm going out of the area every day, when the commuting of every protester at the "Evangelism" station on the subway, where there stops buses, many trolleys, see how they suddenly rest the elderly, the representatives of the poor populaces using buses and trolleyes, when suddenly and unannouncedly thirty, are blocking the whole? Have you seen how the drivers take people down from the buses, why does the center go down? They're the ones you never thought of. Your mind is always in that governments want to do something fascist, while more democratic than anyone wanting to circulate by public transport or by foot unobstructed, is above the Constitution a sacred right. You are crying about unemployment in hotel staff and we are crying, especially in this disaster of COVID -19. All these hotel staff who are held by the tourist movement and the image of Athens doesn't concern you? One last thing: Every bitter one, every fanatical religionist, every houlgian panathinaikos, Olympics, Aktzis, Hercules, some indignant motorcycles, suddenly close the whole center of Athens. That is what the government, the Prime Minister, the MPs and the Minister will do. There is the law of proportionality. Gentlemen, are you a hundred and fifty people? On the sidewalk. Don't laugh ironically, sir. I guess you're not getting on a bus, 'cause you're from a county. You're ADED? Are you GSEE? Then, of course, it's planned. You'll take security measures and take responsibility. Also, we did not do a poll. We do not need it for acceptance by the society of the bill. Make a survey of all trade unionists and supporters, to listen and record what the world keeps dragging you in these cases. Because once we have to tell the truth as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u229	Mr Katsafandos has the floor from New Democracy. Here comes Mr. Sarakiotis from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we did not hear not only during the committees, but also today in the plenary sitting: 'blank day for democracy', 'blue day for democracy', 'blue day for democracy'. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you cannot understand the importance all of these words and phrases you use and you think it is very easy to put them in your vocabulary, not least for the risks that such expressions may create and for how you can toddle society. This is not the first time, of course, that you're doing this. May I remind you what you were saying when the lawlessness of universities was abolished? May I remind you again that you accused us of being pigeons, that we are fascists, that we are going to cut off the student's democratic expression? What did we do then, ladies and gentlemen? We stopped the universities being an outbreak of lawlessness and let the universities be free. It is true that there is asylum of ideas in universities, but there is no asylum of law, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u231	You know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u232	What anyone knows to talk about both inside and outside the Chamber. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing with this bill? What we have done and the abolition of asylum at universities. We are trying to put a class in this whole situation that the citizens and businessmen of the centre of Athens and the other great cities of the country are experiencing. That's what we're going to do. You're not listening to us. Don't you hear the Athens Trade Association? Hundreds of mergers take place. Here I must congratulate the Minister for the permanent effort in this draft law to make dialogue, a lasting effort to be able to reach an agreement on the data, to reach agreement on the reality. But you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, want to be on another planet outside the reality and everyday life that we all experience. Haven't we seen the images of shame? Haven't we seen stores burning and looting, cars, property? Otherwise, you're cutting for the economy and the New Democracy won't do well. You are cut off for tourism, when the capital of the country was an example of all the incidents that have occurred and the suffering experienced by tourists. So stop mocking and stop having the need, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, try to support your neutrality and try to be constantly honorers of minorities. Is there a matter in relation to the synergy? Are they to the exact same extent as before all the rules and can each trade union, every trade union, each democratic party make its own gatherings as it has done in the past? Or are we not witnesses who are in this Parliament, see Amalia Avenue, why are you telling me that there was a framework, eighty and a hundred people and stop traffic? Haven't we seen these pictures, ladies and gentlemen, are we out of here? Why are we mocking the Greek people? And what is it that in the end forces you to be against selfishness, against reality, against what is happening around the world? And we had no secret agenda. We had told the Greek people by election that we would even put order on this. And that's what we're coming to do a year after the country's rule is taken over by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has made clear, because there was a very fruitful dialogue, a good dialogue at least with the Change Movement, there were some objections that were satisfied. Even the objections of the Scientific Council of Parliament were satisfied. The Minister made amendments this morning. So what we should all do is get together on common sense. Because you know, we can say very easily in the name of democracy. In the name of democracy, however, the rights of any of our fellow citizens cannot be violated. Because democracy begins and ends where the rights of any other citizen are being violated. That's the reality, but you're deaf on it, do what you don't hear. All you care about is, why are you writing me a new account in order to be able to support this, that is, it's to close the eye on the Bollocks, to all those who want to react to the reaction, you say that New Democracy brings this piece of legislation today? Because he's gonna starve to the country. That's what you dream of. The piles you dream of. You are dreaming of the indignation of the world, because you have come to power as a result of the indignation of the world and not because they believe you, ladies and gentlemen. The rock rabbits you fed back then. And then we saw them when you came to power. But know that second time we can't do the same work. The same work will not be played twice. Because we are here with a plan, with an organisation, so that we can deal with all the difficulties that the coronary pandemic brings. And you know all of these flaming rights about the democratic rights that are being violated by this bill, where are your democratic views on all these revelations that have been made in recent days about the violation of justice, about the Minister of Justice speaking with a minister in front of the Prime Minister and demanding that one Minister should now take a prosecutor to end? For the Minister of State to say about the corruption prosecutor that "I'm gonna get the little phone to come to the office"? Didn't you have democratic reflexes there? Aren't there democratic reflexes? Or were there democratic reflexes when you were government, ladies and gentlemen, and did you ban the Panhellenic Police Officers' Federation from concentrating it? Then what law did you follow? Did you do it under some kind of Hunting Law? Or when you made the preventive provocations at the gatherings that were taking place when you went to talk about Skopje, then what was it, the law that you were following? Well, look at you, you can continue your political isolation. You have every right. But you have no right to continue poisoning and to divide Greek society. We know, for our part, what we need to do. We will follow the struggle and effort faithfully, to be able to create a Greece that meets the modern requirements of the world. So we will continue this struggle and I wish you could change the camp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u233	Now Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA and Mrs Anagnostopoulou follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we find with great disappointment that today Greek parliamentary democracy returns many decades back, returns to silk legislation on measures to safeguard the social status and protection of the citizens of 1938. Returns to dd. In the light of the above, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93(2) of the EEC Treaty in respect of aid granted by the French Government to the steel industry. The Government of New Democracy is, of course, moving further, providing for even criminal sanctions for ordinary citizens to participate in a gathering. Such is your insurmountable zeal and you are rushing to legislate preventively in order to prevent citizens from reacting to the consequences of your deadlocked policy that we have mentioned many times. You have come to undermine even the right of assembly, which has been carried out unintentionally at all stages of constitutional normality in the past two hundred years in our country. Do you really think this bill will be an impediment to the reasonable and upcoming, because of your political, social anger? Will the Greek people suddenly forget that we are entering a new cycle of recession, with unemployment going up again because of your inability? Will you prevent the reactions to the constant smuggling of professionals, entrepreneurs, workers? Of course, Minister, I must admit that you are in full sequence with what you have said before, when you were reasonably wondering whether social issues would be combatting them with the police and whether the police would give any place to social problems. Since, as you admit, the police can't solve them, you now recruit the citizens themselves - organizers, creating social automation and breaking down horror. This is your tactic. And if you are a way of being inconsistent with your previous phrase, you are certainly inconsistent with the historical weight of the area you come from, a historical site that has nothing to do with views such as those expressed by the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Vorides, on the right of assembly, who said until yesterday that we were in absolute right and zero regulation. In fact, Mr. Vorides pointed out to us that whoever touched it, we burned it to fire, because it was one of the tonal approaches of the Left, one of the sacred cows of the Left. And we ask ourselves: is it not, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, an absolute right to this assembly? Does he have any asterisks? Who defines these asterisks other than the constitutional legislature? The question arises as to whether there are any other articles in the Constitution in which you have put an asterisk and we will see the next time. And why is Mr Vorides asking us to touch this democratic conquest? Do you not understand that this is how you divide Greek citizens and return our country many decades back? Minister, on the basis of your legislative initiative, the points made by the President of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors Mr Sevastides and by the President of the Prosecutors Mr Xylia in their joint article are characteristic. The recipe's old. When the state wants to incorporate a constitutional right, it does not do so directly because it is prevented by the unmoved process of constitutional reform, on the other hand because it causes uncontrolled social reactions. But it has other weapons more efficiently. It adopts implementing laws of the Constitution, which so suffocate a constitutional mood that it remains the shell of sterile and void of any substance. According to a strange coincidence, constitutional rights that go to the size of implementing laws are the rights of collective action. In other words, when the Constitution tends to become annoying for some, you are effectively canceling it by means of legislative acts, which are published in the name of a conception of God of constitutional legitimacy. And it is questioned by every democratic citizen: who defines the limits of democratic expression? Is it not the exclusive right of the citizens within a coordinate state? With what right does the Ministry of Civil Protection limit the right even at the spontaneous meeting and protest? With what guarantee the designated organizer is charged with police duties, as well as with responsibilities beyond what he or she is able to carry out. You support your argument in fake dilemmas, saying that fifty people are blocking a street many times, but you avoid confessing that already since 2013 there has been a presidential decree, which places such mobilisations on the sidewalk under the responsibility of the Greek Police. You are ignoring those bodies who, during the debate on the bill, were not good at what they said did not attract you, unlike when you invoked them last week and introduced them in the microcredit bill. But when, as in this case, they object to you, you are strongly criticised, they are swamped and converted into mere monitoring of your policy. This is your understanding of consensus and understanding, which is fully reflected in this bill but also in the whole range of your policy. You agreed to turn your party into a large 'league Orthodox alert'. We are not going to agree to turn the Greek state into a great extreme right-wing greenhouse of mature authoritarianism and the violation of fundamental rights. For these rights and the establishment of democracy in our country we have fought thousands of our compatriots and these struggles we are not going to betray them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u235	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou from SYRIZA has the floor and Mr. Xanthopoulou is following again from SYRIZA. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, 'the right to a meeting is not subject to authorisation, notification or preventive control by the police, as was done in abnormal times'. This is written in a collective volume article curated by Mr. Gerapetritis in 2017. In the abnormal times, therefore, we do not invoke them, they are invoked by the scientists I hope and when they are in a political position to remember these political views. Today and in the committees as we have seen, it has paralyzed - and here I am impressed by young people in New Democracy, I am not talking about the largest - a black veil. I have heard from one last speaker say about the protesters that they 'will react to the reaction'. Watch the phrase, note the political content of the phrase. Minister, who determines the content of the reaction? He comes here as a Member of the New Democracy and says that they 'will react to the reaction'. We've gone too far. Apart from the various things I have heard that are causing social automation, the protesters who are preventing the poor people from going to work - as if we are not all concerned, as if we are not all on the street - are trying to do something, to get a potential, a right that is active, Mr Minister, because 'I'm going down the road' is energy policy, and this has always been in history since September 3, 1843. It is an active right, the protesters reappoint the public space and redefinite the debate. It's not a parade, Minister, the protest. It shall not be defined in advance. It's not the paradox who gives shots and says. It has democracy, as always, something unpredictable. As a great intellectual says "it is cool water that wakes up, if it becomes lukewarm water, then fall asleep". You keep the shell out and the media lose the contents and that is a dynamic content. I have heard from another speaker in the New Democracy and, unfortunately, my favourite student for many years now, say that you are following what other European countries do. Tell me by hand, in what European country such executive laws have been adopted, if they have ever prevented protests. Tell me the yellow vests, with a law that France has, couldn't they protest? They couldn't demonstrate in the most dynamic way? The road is not being saved, Minister. It only pays one way when political power listens to him. When political power in the context of democracy is in open dialogue with this road. In another way, it cannot be financed. So do not seek to tell us that 'The New Democracy that comes to order'. Do not keep using this expression 'without wanting...' - the rapporteur of the New Democracy said so - '... to overcome these forty-five years of post-multiple'. What a horror with these forty-five years of Mr Chryssohoidis, I am telling you, and with a lot of love, that you may consent to going beyond forty-five years of post-population - why can I not understand this in any case, said Karragunis to go over forty-five years of post-multimatisation and go to normality - but I wonder where you get the thread of this normality? You're the ones who say it yourself. Your rapporteur says so. There is no need for what the rapporteur has done and has shown in the best way that the 1971 law is transposed from the law, the 1971 law, in today, with only a change of language from a city cleaner. We have been told by your speakers that Greece is finally becoming a European country. Mr Minister, you and Mr Mitarakis and Mr Koumotsakos, yesterday, were in a very bad position in the European Parliament. I watched the whole conversation. 'We were accused...' - the Mitsotakis Government - '... as well as the government with extreme right-wing methods'. I heard all this. Your reaction was hypotonic. And what could you possibly say? I want to close by saying one thing and really address the younger generation and the upcoming generations, because what we are talking about here is recorded. Where are they going to catch the thread? The New Democracy, the most authoritarian and anti-democratic New Democracy in recent decades, wants to cut the thread. We want to continue the thread from where? Of these great democratic struggles. We need to know one thing. Protests are a lever of history. It's not just the politicians who make it, it's not just the military, it's not just the kings who made it once. In 1843, the protesters made history. The big class struggles, the 20th-century protests, the demonstrations on education, the feminist movement, the pacifist movement, all of this was a lever of history. The lever of history you fear. You didn't get the pain for shopkeepers because the protests from '11 to '15 happened. Because there was a social explosion, because of all those laws you were going through. Because of the operations he was shutting down. And business and shops weren't closed by the protesters, they were closed by a certain policy. Do not forget as a society under any circumstances - and this is not left, it is all the democratic struggles, it is not SYRIZA and the KKE, it is all the democratic world and Greece and worldwide - that the great protests were the lever of history. In 1963, I have a dream, the big protest was. In 1930, in India the psychology of the soul by Gandhi, the great demonstration was. I would like to tell you, then, that whatever you do in this town you want to cut off the memory - one of the rare capitals of the world and we are proud of this capital - speaks of the political, economic centre, the road and the neighbourhood of questioning. Harmony, do you know when it's coming? When all of these people come in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Theophilos Xanthopoulou from SYRIZA has the floor, followed by Mrs. Macroy from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, by taking a look at and by reviewing now the material that has been concerned with us in the last few days, especially with the draft law under discussion, I saw Law No. 794/71, which, because of both past and employment with the language, is an inappropriate cleaner and which I translated, as our rapporteur was good enough to present and I see it is a motto translation of today's legislation. So much poverty, then, the government of the excellence! You guys are the best lovers of the beginning of minor effort? Didn't you make a bill of yours from the outset, involving your perception and philosophy and suffocated into a word translation of a law of dictatorship? We objected to unconstitutionalism. Rejected. You agreed, of course, to then incorporate part of the decision of the Scientific Council of Parliament. The plenary session of the presidents of the lawyers told you it was unconstitutional. Let me make a reminder. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, in the name of the majority, does not mean that you are entitled to decide everything. I would remind you that in the Committee on Papagelopoulos, whenever it went to the matter, which had legal and constitutional implications, the relevant institutions, either at the Scientific Council of the Parliament or at the Argentine Ice, you have suffered a significant political and legal defeat there. The same will happen here when the time comes. What are the new elements that you have brought in violation of the practice and policy that has been established in recent years in the country? You say that achieving a public procedure, a social and individual citizen's right, is, first of all, the authorisation of the police. This arrest is against the core of the right to assemble. Then ask for the prosecutor’s presence. The prosecutors told you themselves. The presence of the prosecutor is not legal. Why? Why are you asking the prosecutor as a judicial officer to have administrative responsibilities, which is inconsistent with the role of the prosecutor and therefore cannot stand. I put another parameter, Minister. In the provincial courtrooms - you from Veria, I from Drama - there is a public prosecutor per primary court per day. Will the prosecution and prosecutor leave the prosecutor's office and follow the demonstration for two to three hours or as long as it takes to determine whether there is a reason to dismantle the concentration? In other words, other kinds of problems are being created. You have brought us a statement that they can apply to the Suspension Department of the Council of State if they do not meet their requests. And I ask: do we from Drama, citizens from Serres or other provinces have the power to go to the Suspension Department of the Council of State to exercise their right? You realize how distorted you have the image of the country and how diverse you view the operation of the bill. Establish objective responsibility for the organizers of the concentration. What do you understand that you will create with it, apart from the fact that the popular movement cannot have representatives, as you have defined them, I fear that in the end you will create similar "softs". A head of procedure will be brought in to collect thunderstorms and the memorial of the legal order, and this story will be degenerated in this way. It is no accident that the President-in-Office, Mr Athanasios, has made you aware of this: at least define it to have the full responsibility of the natural perpetrators of illegal acts. Because here there is a chance that the people who break it will be arrested and because the protester has been recorded to turn against the protester to pay for the damages. These are things that both legally and politically and socially do not work. Concentration: What will the second concentration be prohibited? How do you realize that? On the occasion of a major event of the extreme right-wing spectrum, the Chileans, it demonstrates an important part of the Greek society and creates the adversary awe. We anti-fascists will go the other way. We're going to make our presence in the common space dependent on who got to get permission? I want to express my pain and my bitterness about the attitude of the Change Movement. With the people of the Change Movement we walked common streets, we claimed common demands, we shared common values, we participated in shared hopes. Today the Change Movement crossed Ruvikon, is identical to the conservative government, and it also has to account for the Greek people and above all the people who have occasionally believed it. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you know that the bill you are introducing will not be implemented. It cannot be implemented, but it has a symbolism. He's forming consciences. It's a biopolitical exercise. You're changing social rights, you're breaking social freedoms. You are taking care of the retreat of the upcoming people's courage in the wrong way, because citizens will not be left unrealistic in the attempted undemocratic diversion. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Ms. Makri from New Democracy has the floor and then Mrs. Papapeiga, on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out in the end that we need virtue and courage even for self-evident legislation, on the basis of essential constitutional rules that protect fundamental human rights. The reason, ladies and gentlemen, is for the virtue and courage shown by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his Government to face up to modern and effective life, but also to block some of the post-political and anachronistic taboo that is still afflicting the political and social life of the country today. One of these is the universal lawlessness and immunity which, for forty-five years in the exercise of the right of the public outdoor assembly, existed. Since there is no implementing law under Article 11(2) of the Constitution, we have in practice led to the greatest possible extension of freedom to protest against the economic and social life of the place. This right was exercised inconsistently, relentlessly, abusively. With contempt for private and state property it was considered inapplicable and therefore justified even in its exaggeration. Each social group was demonstrating the way it wanted, in the time it wanted, by ignoring and at the same time disgracefully preventing the modern exercise of the rights of others, such as the right to freedom of movement, the right to freedom of movement, the right to freedom of movement, the right to freedom to pursue the profession and the right to property. The vandalism of shops and businesses has been a daily phenomenon, but unfortunately the right to life itself has not been forgotten by the tragic events in Marfin with the murders of innocent people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to disagree on the need for the principle of the bill. The statistics are vague. In a decade, concentration and demonstrations exceeded forty-seven thousand, i.e. fifteen per day on average, with most of them recorded in the six years 2010-2015. In 2010, eleven thousand two hundred ninety protests and marches had taken place, according to police data. All this amount of protests caused a similar mobilisation of the police, which had a total of seven hundred two thousand four hundred forty-three policemen, and often the incidents of violence and conflict. According to the papers of "Kathimerini" at that time, it refers, for example, to the damages that on 28 and 29 June 2011, thirty-five companies costing EUR 500,000, on 19 and 20 October 2011, damages to sixty-two companies costing 400,000 euros and on 12 February 2012, damages to two-two companies costing EUR 70,000,000. Today, in 2020, with eighty marches and gatherings in May which the market reopened and fifty-three since the beginning of June, with an average shut-down of about three times per working day and the creation of daily conditions of suffocation and inability to operate the city and the market, one wonders: Do you at last recognize that the majority damage and suffering need to be addressed? Is there or not a need to regulate the problems caused by demonstrations on the part of citizens? What is the reason for the reaction when we all realise that we are living in a democratic country with strong, strong and justified reflexes to excessive government repression? They react to the draft political parties, which the disciplined, guarded and at the same time mass mobilising them cause negative reactions only to the excessive order, so they have nothing to fear from the application of the legislation. They respond to speakers who have been burnt twice over the past three years on their government. They wonder if Greece is handed over to the bollocks if it is enough for fifty people to close the road. In their day, the protesters did not just close the streets, but were digging them out. He reminded us of it and reminded them of it always wisely Oxy Mandravelis. With the unscrupulous and politically unacceptable opposition, the majority of the Greeks find that there is no proposal, and if there is no order the centre will remain closed at the disposal of every destroyer, looted and repellent for tourists. The bill with the flexibility of the spatial development of the protest and the responsibility of the meeting organizer proves that it does not add to bureaucracy but with full confidence in the quality of the police work, regulates what has remained separate in the last forty-five years. In the voices that react, which are the same that provided for violence and blood not only in Exarches but also in universities, which reproduce the entire repertoire of postmultimatisation - junta, a society that enters the plaster, a specific monument of authoritarianism - we will respond that these views are overrepresented by parties and activists, without such a correspondence to the overwhelming majority and its anguish. It is the government's duty to vote for the new law, such as Article 11 of the Constitution, and as much as it honors the present Government, this initiative no longer honors the opposition for the sake of its opposition and its impressions of opposition. The simultaneous intact exercise of the constitutional right to freedom of assembly and unrestricted social and economic activity must very simply coexist as strong and as protected. Somewhere I read that to achieve this, we need compromises. I strongly disagree. It just needs strict implementation and respect for legislation, full awareness of the delicate balances of political proclamation and economic and social freedom, but above all, the common sense needs to prevail on ideological confirmation. Minister, after you have won the bet of this required abbreviation, after you have successfully overcome the out-of-block divisions, I am sure you realize that the implementation of the law is the thing to do. The golden balance that you have achieved by law will only counteract the constitutional rights sometimes if and as long as the law is implemented. I have complete confidence and certainty that in this way this dangerous graphics will be a past for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u241	On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Papayannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u242	From a number of speakers and speakers, and from the previous one, there is an account of how many strikes and mobilisations have been made as proof of a disturbance in the country's socio-economic life. Of course, they also bring some examples, so many cars were burned, etc., which have nothing to do with strikes or demonstrations. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] We ask this question, not here in Parliament, but to the people, to those who at any rate listen to this debate today. If not all these thousands of mobilisations, other larger, mass and numerous, other less massive, things would be just as they are today? Not that today is good. Has mobilisation prevented any worse measures from being taken during the governments managed by the Memorandum? Let me give you an example. The personal difference in retirement. Has time been gained in not taking any new measures? But, of course, these mobilisations must disrupt the socio-economic life of the place. Why? Because in this social and economic life there is no single interest. Other interests of capital and other labour, other interests of entrepreneurs in socio-economic life and other interests of the working class of bio-opportunists, self-employed, in town and countryside. There is no single interest. The interests are classic and therefore, if social, economic and therefore political life remain undisturbed and stable, then the people will not only continue to have their problems, but will be at an even higher stage of relative and absolute impoverishment. I would like to dwell on an issue which is the main pattern of government and the main pattern - with the forgiveness - of all the parties you have decided, regardless of the appropriateness, to support this system, or because you think there is no association of forces to change - so that is the intention - or because you are fully identified with it. You say that it cannot impose a minority's will on the majority, or the majority's decision must be applied, and that is the quintany of democracy. There's no clean democracy. Democracy is classic. The democracy of the bourgeoisie is also a classic democracy of the working class, but they are conflicting and mutually exclusive interests. But let's see the majority. There are international statistics, and I think the last published is by the United Nations. It is no coincidence that these statistics are coming out worldwide. The latest statistic says that 1% worldwide owns 60% of world wealth. I imagine that wealth means in the form of capital, i.e. in the form of machines, mineral wealth, what is in any case called wealth, which is produced by man, whether it belongs to man, when it is domestic through nature, soil, etc. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party. So the wording says that 1% holds 60%. Of course, this last one, which I heard many times and on radios, which was also written in newspapers, is not entirely objective and scientifically documented, because it seems that 99% of world wealth holds 40% of the world's wealth. But it's not like that. One percent have put the trillions in, say, billionaires, there are billionaires, there are millionaires. It's not 1%, it's much more. If you want, let's set an average. In any case, the averages do not render reality. But in developed capitalist countries, let's say that the urban order along with its allies holds 90% of wealth and within the population is 15% or 20%. 80% in the vast majority, over 60%, owns nothing called wealth and a small part, which elsewhere is 10%, 15% elsewhere, 20% elsewhere, depending on the level of development of capitalism in each country, are micro-owners, who are bio-opportunists. So, in fact, when you talk of majorities and minorities, you reverse things. There is a minority who has everything in her hands, who is waging them, because she does not own everything, she defines everything, ownership, political decisions, dominance in all areas and calls for the majority to conform, submit, fear, not to have confidence in herself. In this sense, the concepts of a majority and a minority cannot apply in that sense. Of course, when a meeting is held in a club, such as the metal industry, for example, the majority can decide to strike and protest and the minority react, even though they have the same interests. Or to the contrary, to reject a proposal for strikes and demonstrations and a minority insist that this decision is wrong. That's another thing. Here, yes, the majority decision is valid, without meaning that the minority will fall over the head. He will fight to turn the right decision into a majority. But don't tell us majorities and minority groups. Let's say the governments. Is it a majority within the people of parties that govern? As you are interested in is the majority and minority? Even throughout Europe there is no real majority, if we assume - which does not exist - that a party with 51% comes out when it votes 40%, 50%, 60% of the population. So let go of this conversation. Of course, it suits you, because that is how the interests of a minority, social, political, etc. are being safeguarded. The worst thing that exists in this law, which, of course, is not original, but is now working with police forces, is doing the following: In the name of the single interest, which is not a single national interest, in the name of the stability of socio-economic life, which must not be stable, in the sense that the more stable the people will live on all sides, call and defend themselves as an individual right, the isolated person from the workplace, from his colleagues, from his industry, from his class, and you ask him not only to be isolated - at the best of being isolated - but to react. Let me give you an example. Let's say we have a strike and a health protest. We know, because we share and live and fight for a lot of mass strikes and mobilisation. We don't like strikes that may be decided by a few. After all, they can't apply too. In other words, the individual right of movement at the University, the Stadium, the Constitution, the Queen of Wisdom and King George is more than claiming health benefits to the people, than demanding appointments etc. You are calling, in other words, on a doctor who does not participate in the strike or a nurse who at that time also exploits the strike to go shopping and opposes his colleague. That's what happens. For us, it is not our opponents who are not strikers, those who are voting against the strikes, those who do not take part in the demonstrations. In the course they will get and we will have cases that will come down from their cars and take part in the demonstrations, but this is what you grow. And not only does the government cultivate it, they cultivate it all the parties with the principle of minority and majority. You support that everyone submits to the minority and at the same time the individual runs counter to conflicting with his or her class. This is your democracy. But you cannot support another type of democracy, but individualism and, if you like, social automation. The worst in this bill is what it says about the ideology of violence. You are all in favour of all the views being heard, but it is not considered right, fair and at some point fair to tell the people that he has looked, capitalism has a historical character, it is not the eternal system, it does not take healing. Yes, and it must be overturned, of course with the will of the majority. He can't be overthrown by a party because he wants to overthrow him. That's all we have to see in combination. We combine this law that you are now bringing with the strike law adopted by the SYRIZA Government, Mrs Ahtsoglou. Why, look, the protests especially on the day the world is running, are combined with strikes. These are mass demonstrations combined with strike. We combine it with the precedents of judicial decisions, which make most of the smuggling strikes. And now you're going to put an even more suffocating cord in justice. We combine it with all the supplies that the police have made for the so-called "smart" policing, during the smart phone and smart TV, where with devices such as mobiles, etc., but other devices will be able to photograph everyone not only those who burn buildings and destroy cars and blow up ATMs, but even those who sit on the sidewalk and possibly applaud the protesters. All this will be stored, not only those that might be needed for justice, but good evil will also have this general freckles in a new way and not that bureaucratic, old-fashioned one who had to follow you from morning to night some policemen. That's not happening now. There was also a lot of talk - to finish - and the New Democracy was upset, because the law of origin told her that it was a law of law. We do not blame any parties and what they will vote for in this bill of dreaming of the period of the junta and the dictatorship. Oh, no. Of course, it is a question of why this law was not abolished. But it's a comprehension of the law of law of law. Conscientious or unconscious I can't say. We're not having an intent trial. But it's compiling. He's unconstitutional. But the Constitution has "walkers". There is no constitution in Europe without 'walkers' of violence against the people and at the expense of the people's movement. But most of all - let me tell you clearly - that a hunger law has remained or, if you like, spontaneously repeat things that existed in the past in times of dictatorship, it is not a random one. There is an urban Parliamentary Republic, there is also the bourgeois dictatorship that is being abolished by parliament, forbids elections and forbids the action of parties and mass organizations. In any case, we do not equate this. It's not the same at all. And in that sense we won't accuse any party that he's beinghaved in hunk because he's voting for this law. Of course we'll do him warfare. But it proves this: Civil power, whether by parliament or without parliament at its core, does not change. Politics in the economy and therefore in socio-economic life is the same on the substance. And to tell you, we recognize that you prefer urban parliamentary democracy, you also want multi-partyism, bipartite rotation, changing governments of cooperation. You don't want controversy to escape some limits with scandals and scandals, etc. But this controversy is also useful, because you are working all parties in such a way that the people walk from one party to another, from one block of forces to the other, and the system remains the same barbaric and every day it gets worse. Even though the JRC was intrinsically involved in management, then even better! You want - I mean throughout Europe - and communist parties, because it tells you that this is where the communist party is involved, that is democracy, no one is forbidden. But all that that leads? You want the majority of the people regardless of their direction, I believe - I will not analyse, we know how she thinks - to be submissive, manipulated, scared. That is what you want, to submit a majority to the social and political minority. Even though the elections may aggregate 60% and 70% of the parties, the interests of a minority will no longer be expressed. The majority of us respect it in the factory, in the industry, where people have common interests, regardless of whether their policies or ideological views are different. And finally I heard from some Members that the JRC is implementing the law of the government and is being safeguarded. We guard our gatherings from the provocatives and know very well that this bill - which will unfortunately become law - is a green light for the provocatives!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much. Now Mr Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA and I would ask that we keep the time in six minutes precisely, because there are a hundred other Members to speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is characteristic that one year after her election, the Mitsotakis Government chooses in a symbolic way to prove that it is a extreme right-wing government. Because it brings about a bill that restricts the democratic rights of our society, a bill that has a far-right identity and a bourgeois inspiration, something particularly revealing but also, unfortunately, very negative for the future of our country and for Greek democracy if this government can withstand it. Of course SYRIZA doesn't say so. It is clear from the Scientific Service of the Parliament. I do not think we need to discuss these matters any more. It was made clear by the coordination of the presidents of the Bar Associations, where the issue of constitutionality, in particular, comes into play, but also by the fact that the core of the right is affected and is outside the constitutional framework. I think the public prosecutors' association also says so. All this has come clearly into the debate today, and I think it is not a matter of legal corrections, balances and formalities. It is an essential political issue that we are discussing. They don't fit halves. And here I would like to refer to the members and members of the Change Movement. I believe that this bill will judge whether the Change Movement will keep open a window of conversation with society and with the progressive forces or whether to choose our country's reactionary, anti-popular extreme right. It is clear, of course, that the concern of the New Democracy is also trying to substantiate what it is trying to do. The number of demonstrations you gave in the documentation, Mr Minister, for the Members of the New Democracy. Lots of numbers! Of course, the Pecha list is making it undeniably, making it gospel because only the media are referring to them. 99% has been paid by you and he probably says what you want. But did you give all the numbers, Mr. Chrysochoid? Did you also give those figures that talk about the recession in the economy and the facts of what is affected by small and medium-sized entrepreneurship today in Athens and in the other cities? You also gave up the numbers that I found in a quick news report - if you like - research, where the Directorate-General for Police made a statement, where it says that people with a political enclosure are throwing objects next to the forces of EL.AS. When you were Minister? Mr Chrysochide, have you given this to the society for the debate that is taking place? You were the minister at that time, Mr Chrysochide. Because we are interested in order and security and the protection of property and the protection of the rights of the whole society. You're not talking now. It's not your interest. It's a fact. But society doesn't forget what it means right. Right is cooking numbers, right is restricting rights, but at the same time it also offends entrepreneurship. And because we are no longer talking about right-wing, but about a right-wing debate within the European Parliament which the Socialist MEPs have condemned and described as Mr Chrysochoidis, Mr Mitarakis and Mr Kumucako, in a debate where the Commissioner has shown concern about how the Greek Government has democratic rights, let us discuss a little where the New Democracy aims with this bill. Firstly, the New Democracy is afraid of society. He knows what he's doing. He's Mr. Mitsotakis' router we've been waiting for. It's not just New Democracy. All those who have made you a government, that is, the interests you serve, those who want memorials, austerity, limitations. It is these very small, limited interests that have made you, for example, to give amnesty to bankers, but peculiarity to the citizens. And the protests, social reaction stops measures, changes the measures you want to impose, stops the memorial and austerity, changes your plans, the plans of this limited family oligarchy, what the Mitsotakis family represents over time. The second question is that the interests and rights of society are an obstacle to the plans of the New Democracy. You want to limit working rights to collective agreements, wages and wages. You want to limit the right to public health, public education, welfare. You limit the right to the basic goods of life. It is tragic that during the pandemic period you are cutting the current into vulnerable households, unemployed families, single parent families, long-term patients. And this is done by the New Democracy. At the same time, the right to the environment and quality of life with Mr Hatzidakis' anti-environmental law was restricted, but also the right to public property and the wealth that he creates for all of us. All these rights of society are contrary to the interests of the New Democracy. However, the New Democracy project can only be implemented if the rule of law and the rule of law are restored. When the democratic rights of society are limited, then the state of inter-corruption and corruption which the New Democracy wants will prevail and then the law will be exchanged with rousfetti and instead of the young person trying to get a job and have rights will come to your offices. And that's how you want them. Kneeled, subjugated and defeated, you want the young. But we want another growth for Greece. We want people who know their rights, entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized, scientists who have rights and claim them, because a society that is frightened and defeated is a society that only wants right. This is a dark society. The New Democracy does not only restrict rights with this bill, it disputes the existence of a right. You don't have the right to think, you don't have the right to work, you don't have the right to claim, you don't have the right to create. That's why people of culture and knowledge and mind are in the outside, especially in the pandemic period, because that's just for the few. The few are thinking, the few are deciding, the few are sharing ruffles, and Mr. Petsas with the 20 million manipulating the media so that nothing is heard in society, and that turns us into a right-wing Greek, because it is violence to limit the right to youth to have an opinion, it is violence to limit the right to protesters, workers and also to Indarre, for example, to enter his home and to beat him. It is violence that the financial adjustment with the numbers of bankers given amnesty is being made. It's violence the parastate and the mud born by the New Democracy. It is a distortion of democracy, of freedom of press, of pluralism, of the list of Petsa and of media manipulation. And all this on what grounds? The householders and shopkeepers, the people you condemn them to 'lucker', because you have not even given 1 euro real funding. Because the businessmen in northern Greece at the recent meeting we held with them this weekend, they told us that they have not seen a single governmentist and they have not taken a single euro to support themselves at this difficult time, when we really need to support society and entrepreneurship and work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. "Freedom, in fact, stops where it meets the freedom of others," said Mr. Karagunis. But do you know what's happening to the New Democracy? Freedom of citizens, freedom of society stops where it meets the interests of the few people served by the New Democracy, who serves these few interests. For the New Democracy, freedom is only the freedom of system and family, family and succession with rings. But I wonder, Mr Chrysochoidis: How will you stop the demonstrations of youth, the 'Fridays for Future', the movements of young people that are every Friday gathered in the Environment Constitution? I wonder where you're going to find in charge of arresting him. This bill will be degraded in practice, because this bill will be abolished by us, by democrats, by the new generation of dreams, by the people of ecology and the environment, by workers and scientists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u246	And we really want to see: Will you come and arrest us, Mr Chrysochide?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u247	Mr Kotronis has the floor from New Democracy and Mrs Buddhism will be prepared shortly afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are in a loose debate and ask what democracy is, what answers will we get? Freedom of speech, freedom of movement of ideas, protection of the right to work, freedom of movement, respect for life and property of the individual. And, yes, it is true. Democracy is all the freedoms of the individual together, but on one condition: these freedoms go as far as they do not offend the freedoms of other people. In democracy there are rights and obligations in absolute balance. So what is considered self-evident in a loose social debate for the Greek state is still forty-six years after the 1974 Constitution, requested. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the views of all my fellow Members, I would like to say that those who argue and identify democracy only with the right to progress and protest, without rules, are today very far from society. You'd be close, maybe in the first few years of But today, you are addressing a society that has lived with forty-six years in democracy, which in recent years has experienced populism in all its expressions. You are addressing a society that has matured and is calling for the implementation of democracy in everyday life. After forty-six years the Greek Parliament comes to legislate according to the requirements of the 1974 Constitution, and regulates the right of assembly, the use of the public space, the right to prostitution and the right to security and respect for the life and property of citizens. The question to the citizens is whether there should be a majority in the process. The majority say yes, and I spoke earlier about inconsistency with the society of a number of Vice-Presidents, because in the Chamber I have heard terrible things, that we are allegedly bringing the bill to prevent the social explosion that is before the gates, that we are bringing back a copy of the provisions of the junta, that the organisers will pay the broken ones. They wonder how the student marches will take place. They find that our aim is to ban and criminalize the marches, to transfer decisions to the police, as if this Constitution did not define much more. They said until it is a clear day today that this bill will be discussed. These, of course, do not stand in my mind, and I think they are a pity to be educated and respected people in this House, to be subject to the party requirement at the expense of common sense and the European acquis and, of course, on the basis of the previous speech by my colleague, to become those who are going to represent what is now being said in society, that society is not forgetting what the left means. And would you like, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you something else? All citizens who have the right to assembly have organised trade unions defending them, supporting them in their claim. Truly tell me, though, who are defending and what we will respond to those citizens who, with their taxes, paid the hundred burned trolleys, who, from their pocket, pay for broken windows and burnt I.C.Huh? Tell me who's going to support the one who lost the cut why he couldn't get to work? Who will defend their right to freedom of movement, to security, to work? Who will protect them from the abuse of an otherwise democratic right? The answer is one: we, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament. We must represent all Greeks, and we have a sacred obligation to legislate fairly by applying the Constitution and regulating the rights of all citizens and not just a portion of them. Pursuant to the Constitution, the police or port authority is responsible for imposing public-study restrictions and at the same time defines a police or port link that is in contact with the organisers through the establishment of the concentration organiser, which is essentially the link between the contexts of the state and the state, as in most European states, and do not doubt that. And we don't want this man to charge him with damages, as you said, because if he does his job properly, even when he can't control his concentration, he calls on the police, which takes care of and security, and the organiser is relieved of all responsibility. And because fears were heard about possible police misery, it is necessary for the police or port authority to inform the competent prosecutor in any case of a decision or order to ban or dismantle even open public meeting. The proposed arrangements are not to be voted on in order not to take steps, but to make peaceful marches without risk to the life and safety of the citizens without disturbing the smooth functioning of a city. In other words, it seeks to safeguard the right of assembly in public in the country in line with the requirements of Article 11 of the Constitution and Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, Isocrates, the great Athenian orator of classical antiquity, weeping: "Our democracy is destroying itself, because the right to freedom and equality has been abused, because it has taught citizens to view insolence as a right, arbitraryness as freedom, unparalleledness of speech as equality and anarchy as bliss". Ladies and gentlemen, all these years have we not been living anything out of this situation, especially because of the abusive exercise of certain rights? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. This bill protects democracy, according to the Constitution of Greece, teaches citizens not to abuse the right to freedom, teaches them that their right stops where the right of others begins, makes freedom a partner of social respect, ensures equality of expression in dialogue with arguments rather than with cries and sees the blissfulness of society as a result of regularity and compliance with laws. It is a bill that the governments have avoided bringing it to bear, in order to deal with, fragmentarily, any problem that arose during their term of office. And we saw this at least twice with the SYRIZA government. It is a bill harmonized with the rest of Europe, and I believe that following the changes made by the Minister can be voted on at first hand by all the wings of the House, because it positively regulates the exercise of fundamental constitutional rights and strengthens the democratic functioning of the Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u249	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Vulture has the floor now from New Democracy and Mr Giolas will then be prepared by SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The word junta has been kept in this Chamber. The worst thing is that Members refer to it, not because they are unscrupulous, but because they make a conscious choice. Anyone who has lived or learned or heard or heard what is a junta does not dare to mention that word in a Parliament that operates in a declared manner. And don't be surprised to say that there was a translation from the junta's decrees, because the junta - those who know it - after 1970 tried to create a precursor, and used laws from normal countries and in them he represented what that junta wanted the most devastating ones that went through the country. Cyprus was destroyed and it was the most terrible regime that passed through here, because some took power over their "massage" and to do business with Tom Pope and eat the money from the "Tama of the Nation". Do you see this in Greece today, to refer to it? Do you know what a junta means? Do you know how the junta ruled? By decrees and by closed and torture and by landslides. Well, I don't go on with that. I will come to what our Parliamentary spokesman, the Lebanese Cave, has already announced, because if we listen to you, we will think there is an vast junta all over the world. So let us see: In Spain, in Sanchez and Iglesia, the most stringent law with information to the authorities, ten days' notice, announcement of organisers' names, a police link, heavy fines of up to EUR 30,000 and more, while if a road is to be closed, the request for permission must be submitted thirty days earlier. Protests outside public buildings, Sanchez and Igles have not changed any of this. And let me tell you the most beautiful thing: The house, the villa of Iglesia, your friend, in Galapagar, which is preserved by the national guard, is kept under the law of Franco, 1968. This is what the Spanish Ministry of Interior replied to a question from Spanish Members asking to know how many people work around the Iglesia villa. They were told "you cannot, because under the 1968 law, these are issues of secret services and we could not jeopardise our operational plans". Judas Iglesias and Spain? I don't think so. Who signed the strictest law on demonstrations in the United States in March 2012? President Obama. Protests are prohibited, if this is a point which is monitored by the secret services, that is everywhere. Are they going to be told by the secret services that are tracking a target? Juda and Obama, ladies and gentlemen? And I heard something about both France and 'yellow vests'. You know that there the law - whose constitution is based on proclamation of human and civil rights - is too strict. The "yellow vests" can gather in a square and protest but are not allowed to march. And the last time they tried to go to Opera, they were banned by foot, because they were in danger of the life and property of the shopkeepers. Juda and France? The central left government of Italy, which takes three days to request permission from the police following three announcements to dismantle the protests? Spontaneous events from Facebook - you need to know - are covered in Italy - the centre-left Italy - with the appointment of an organizer on the ground. As for the sports you say that if you win a team or if you lose a team, what will happen, in Italy, the three managers of Fiorentina paid three huge fines, precisely because they did not prevent the road from closing after such a race. In Britain, it is not necessary, because I know that you do not think of them as too much of your own - yet there is also an organiser, whoever gives a day, an hour, a route, names and addresses of those responsible. Juda and Britain? Portugal, Left - Long live the Left, normally Costa, your friend - written two days, police are called to dismantle a demonstration for certain reasons and, above all, if a public silence is disturbed. Juda and Portugal? Sweden, the red-green alliance that you've been messing with us all day? There you can see: One week update, license, police can impose geographical restrictions, ban any event that hampers traffic. There's a juda? The Netherlands, the country with most protests? The Hague is the first to protest. Thirty days' briefing for a protest in the Netherlands. Russia, I do not know where it is now - in any case - a warning of days, geographical and local determinations, is banned outside prisons, courts, energy infrastructure, presidential residence, historical and cultural monuments to protect themselves. Canada. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Madam President. In Canada in all states and in all cities very strict laws, fines of up to $5,000 even for a course of over fifty special permits. Australia, the same everywhere and even the left government of Queensland has the toughest law against meetings. For the United States, I told you about Obama - I am ending with it - there you know - unless it is a junta and the United States and Canada and Australia, I know that we live in an infinite junta and only you have, say, the democratic acquis - there are very strict fines. And know that anyone in the United States - in all the states - wants to make a protest, the organiser signs a kind of notarial act of damage and also pays a fee in order to be able to use the streets for his own reason, from $50 to $3,000. And there a junta? What about Russia junta? What about the Americas junta? And Australia junta? What about Canada junta? And all the left and Iglesia junta and you're just the democrats? I do not think that is the case, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u251	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Giolas has the floor now from SYRIZA and immediately afterwards Mr. Psakakis will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Madam President. Because I have seen an admiration and a torque to the police, order and law to the previous colleague and to the full listing of these strict regimes, I do not know whether the Minister has an honorable position for an Aristide clairvoyant, that is, Atticar GDR. Tomorrow, you can claim it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u253	Let's raise the temperature a little. It's cold!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u254	I'd love to. Why not? Today, then, a bill is being discussed in this House, in which we are all convinced, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if it seems strange - except for a minimum of exceptions, I would say a droplet. We all have the same point of view. Those of us who vote against it and you who are voting in favour of it know that this bill will never be implemented. We'll find out soon enough. Autumn after a lot. The Greek people in their overwhelming majority denies, is inverted, repulsed and will effectively abolish any attempt to implement it. It will disprove it, because it directly affects and impairs the inalienable constitutional right of assembly for Greek citizens, a constitutionally guaranteed right that applies indiscriminately and regardless of the volume, size, number of participants in a gathering, in a peaceful demonstration, on a path. He will question it and fight it because he has firmly convinced that the government's concern for its vote is primarily aimed at suppressing the popular reactions expected from the autumn to strengthen and increase against the government's policy that will cause economic ruin in the wide-ranging strata of Greek citizens. That's what you're shaking, ladies and gentlemen. He will reject it after abomination, because his resolution aims to revive the provisions of the hunger inspiration n.794/1971 - it is important to hear them in order not to disturb people - in a more popular version in his spoken language today. What is the right to impose a substantial ban on an spontaneous and direct popular reaction by setting the authoritarian inspiration rules of warning, deadlines, the establishment of organisers responsible for a group or even a dynamic group of individuals, sub-groups, as well as converging streams of individual ordinary citizens, who spontaneously come out and protest, claiming something and responding to any arbitrary decision? Do you think social life, gatherings and marches are scouting walks with leaders and team leaders? A common and common pretext of the bans you are planning on paper, but methodically prepare in practice, is road suffocation and suffering of drivers and travellers in the main roads of Athens and the other major cities of Greece. You have tried it successfully in the past and recently. No welfare, no plan to divert traffic and parking with car design from other streets! You sought, on the contrary, systematically to cause the discomfort of the world, with the most known record - your Prime Minister himself said so unregulatedly - for the few who make life difficult for many. I'll give it to you with an example. It fell to my attention recently, where a journalist interrogating or trying to take advantage of a taxi driver discomfort about the traffic hub, asked him to be able to do well against the protesters and the march. You know, those "Do you condemn this?", etc. After pressurizing and taxing questions and exhortations to renounce and denounce the protesters, his taxi arrogant responds "We are consulting about the alternatives to the online applications of our mobile phone and so we go to work. And in the end, I do not want and I am not allowed to deprive my fellow citizens of the right to gather, call, protest and protest." The cab drivers know, the traffic is not. I would not like to deal with other individual arrangements in the bill. However, this aim of preventing forms of violence, such as radicalisation, is causing me, ladies and gentlemen. What does it mean to you 'rotating'? Is this something suspicious, illegal, kind of a womb of extremism and anarchy? If that is the case, I think, gentlemen of the New Democracy - apart from you, Minister - you are denying the generator of your resignation. The National Radical Union, namely the well-known EPA of Constantine Karamanlis, will be thrown from you to fire as a suspect, anarchist and terrorist? Do you have sperm inside you? I guess SYRIZA, the Radical Left Coalition, you had in mind, but you've unfortunately come up with it. All these strategic plans against violence, strict and banning conditions against demonstrations are not aimed at defending order, security and social peace. The purpose of the New Democracy is to subjugate the citizens' freedom of opinion, to discourage and prevent the involvement and active participation in political life, to exercise their individual and social rights without hindrance, to demand social, labour and economic demands. In other words, it is against the fundamental freedoms of the citizen and of democracy itself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will the government and its willing companions make it? No, because the law won't pass! It will not apply in practice!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Now Mr. Pupil has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, after forty-five years the obsolete 1971 decree on public meetings has been abolished. As many times as the Greek state decided to ban open concentration and course, Athens was besieged and the shopping center was destroyed. Who can forget in November 1998, a visit night of former US President Bill Clinton? Today, a modern legal framework is being introduced with a dual aim, firstly to defend the individual right of citizens' assembly, as provided for in Article 11 of the Constitution and, secondly, to protect public security, the social and economic life of the city. We are the only European country that does not have an institutional regulatory framework for the organisation of demonstrations and meetings in a public space, although Article 11 of the 1975 Constitution provided that all Greeks had the right to meet in a quiet and unequivocal manner, as the law stipulates. Unfortunately, the Greek state did not have the welfare and bravery to guarantee for forty-five years the regulatory law as it should have been with regard to the people, democracy and history. The ultimate purpose of the bill under discussion is the right of assembly not to be abused. It is time to abandon the unclear framework stemming from all the legislative decrees and to close the constitutional gap, a void which made Athens an outrage of violence and crime. It is the only capital of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the others, which does not shine. She is the only one who has been taking peculiar siege for decades. Responsibility is burdened with all of us, but above all the opposition parties. For the first time, the role of concentration organiser and possible course is institutionalised. It also provides for the mediator of the authorities, as well as important channels for bodies in the context of consultation and communication. In this way, actions acquire a person and an identity, that is, competence and responsibility, as we have to operate in a favoured democracy. Responsibility is the core of democracy. Responsibility for those who have suffered damage to life, physical integrity and ownership by participants in the meeting. This will address the phenomena of the well-known perpetrators of violence who are trying to turn the exercise of a democratic right into an outbreak of serious crimes and criminal offences. These incidents affect and distort the substance and target the protests and undermine their credibility, so no one takes them seriously. They feed those who take part in them as well. I very much welcome my experience and remind you of traits that have taken place in Athens but also in other cities in the country over the last forty-five years. I distinguish between March 2006 and March 2008. They were held for Article 16 of the Constitution, about forty pan-educational polytechnic rallys. Legislative vacuum was a suitable ground for violence groups and invade the demonstrations. In addition to this many gatherings and marches were recorded daily by breaking the record of twenty - three a day. As a result, Athens was in constant and peculiar siege and malfunctioned at all levels. I know the incident of building the rooftop at the monument of the Unknown Soldier, where the cock of the Presidential Guard stands. I also single out the repetition of the new pan-educational rally on 15 March 2007, aimed at causing serious damage in the center of Athens. The unfavourable information that provided for the fire of Athens triggered the police headquarters and the prosecutors of the Ice Authority. The rally that took place was much better than the previous ones, while the hardness of the slogans broke the stones and marbles of Athens. However, safeguarding and self-protecting measures were unique, because in a negative case criminal prosecution would also be carried on by moral perpetrators. There were no clashes, no injuries and no single rock was thrown away. On the basis of the above-mentioned development, the police headquarters have set up a working group of scientists who have investigated and translated the relevant legislative framework for all European Union countries. The ultimate aim was to draw up a regulatory framework for public meetings as foreseen by the 1975 Constitution. As a predominant law for Greek data emerged. Unfortunately, things were not mature and this law had no positive ending. Ladies and gentlemen, you have had an historic opportunity to effectively regulate the issue as a government during the recent revision of the Constitution, and indeed you have had the majority of the parliament proposed. You chose not to launch it. Of course it's no accident. However, today's screams for a period of other times and deprivation of human rights are inconsistent with your indulgence then. You held the 1971 Legislative Decree for four and a half years. The ideologies must be translated into a letter of the law that enhances the lives of the citizens. Mr Giola, we expect your honesty and reward, because we dare, even late, to ensure the constitutional requirement of Article 11 of the Constitution, as the law states and not to threaten that you will, in fact, abolish the law of the Greek state. We want our country, our capital and all towns not to be hostages of lawlessness because some want it that way. Today it is self-evident. It is not just those who are demonstrating rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Colleague, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u258	I'm closing, Madam President. The owners of stores in the center of Athens, who see their property being destroyed and their jobs being reduced, also have rights. They also have rights to those who work in them. Those who want to move freely to Athens have rights and are unjustified. Rights are also the patients who are transported with the ambulances. Greece provides legal and security. Mr Minister, thank you very much, because as Hebrews we are satisfied that you have defended the borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u260	The continuation of this policy and the implementation of these plans finds us fully in agreement. If you respond to our last requests, we will thank you multiplely. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, too. Come on, Mr. Barca. You have the floor for six minutes. Please keep the time. I told you it was a hundred more colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the draft law is under a new perspective. We have in our hands the official translation from the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the U.S. court ruling on the extrajudicial compromise with "NOVARTIS". It states the translation of this Decision: ‘NOVARTIS’, Greece together with the official 1, other known and unknown, deliberately and intentionally united their forces, conspired, assembled and agreed with each other and with each other against the United States and to convince that foreign official to use his influence before the foreign government in order to influence the acts and decisions of that Government and its services in order to assist NoVARTIS Greece in order to ensure or maintain an operational activity or to direct business to NoVARTIS Greece’. What does this decision say to us? That parafiscality must end. That during the government of Mr Samaras, the New Democracy and the PASOK we had, unfortunately, this development: Government advisers, Government representatives, government officials to have relations with "NOVARTIS" Greece. The document therefore explicitly mentions the Greek Government's involvement in the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. ‘The right’, Minister, ‘is not subject to authorisation, notification or preventive control by the police, such as in abnormal times’. These are written, Minister, by Mr. Gerapitris in 2017 in the volume for the interpretation of the Constitution. He is the Minister of Government you now serve, of the Government of New Democracy, of the Right. Minister, I told you in committee too. I wonder how your comrades feel, all those who raised the Greek flag and were on the front of the polytechnic course over the years. How they feel about you, this Minister, coming now and bringing this bill that trespasses the Constitution and the rights of citizens. Also, Minister, Mrs Zaire, the President of the Association of Prosecutors, objects to the draft law. According to the President, therefore, the institutional framework that already exists is sufficient. It says precisely that the existing legal framework is sufficient. So, Mr. Minister, do you come and what are you doing? You are legislating in an adequate legislative framework because you want to go through your own right and - unfortunately - right-wing views. Mr Chrysochide, in recent days, unfortunately for our country - not for you, nor for the government - but unfortunately for our country, you did not have a good time in the European Parliament. You have not had good times in the European Parliament despite your efforts to the contrary. In particular, in the debate of the committee responsible, you, the other Minister, Mr Metarakis, and Mr Koumoutsakos, a Member of the European Parliament of your Socialists, described you as a far-reaching right. The other two have been in New Democracy for years, but you, Mr Chrysochide, say that you are using far-right rhetoric. People wonder why you're bringing this bill now. You know, Mr Chrysochide, why you are doing this, but you must also inform the citizens. Because the recession in the economy, Minister, is beyond your predictions. Because unemployment and job losses have reached 2015 level, unthinkable levels. Because, Minister, we have pictures of children who faint in schools because their parents don't have a job. These are acts of the New Democracy. That is why, Minister, it seems that after demanding, of course, the people who took money from the Peca list - the announcement rather than the bill - you bring this bill. Are you alone, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Mr. Chrysochide, on your own course? Do you support the inspirational draft law that we are discussing at the moment in plenary? Mr. Chrysochoid, you also found corporations, you found the Greek Solution, which supports this effort. But you also found MPs of the Change Movement, who support this bill. Unfortunately, the New Democracy, the Greek solution and the Change Movement support this bill. The MPs of the Change Movement support this bill, not the world of the Movement, not the ordinary voter of the Change Movement, because they know that once again the leadership of the Change Movement is pushing to disappoint the voters of the Change Movement. So together you will be voting on this bill of circumvention of freedoms and rights of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Madam President. I do not understand what we are talking about here today, what we are talking about. I'm listening so long to the left wing side protesting. But we don't hear any suggestions, gentlemen. Do you like this picture? Does anyone talk - I am not talking about the Chrysochide bill now - that the demonstrations are being banned, that the protests are being banned? Nobody said that. Because I listened to Mrs Pappiga, I heard Mr Varoufakis say about the historic demonstrations, about what the world has achieved and what humanity has achieved, and we have reached this point. But it is an inalienable right, and we must protest and protest, but we must sometime in this society get into a classroom. And protest and protest and claim our fairs, but at the same time respect the property of the world, not to be broken, not to be in the lawlessness, not to be killed, not to have four or five anniversaries every year in that country where everything is closed, they destroy everything, they turn our country into a war zone and they slaughter each other with police officers. What does this have to do with the marches and demonstrations? Mr. Chrysochoid, we will vote for the bill with a heavy heart and tell you why. But let me ask you a question. Minister, you are generally a successful minister at this post and at the time of PASOK and now. Do you have the feeling - I will tell the illusion - that you can do something by legislating today? I'm going to ask you a question. If it were Friday today, if yesterday's course on the pedestrian road had taken place tomorrow or Friday, do you think the "bulk" with this bill in effect would not be broken, devastated or downloaded the windows in Ermos 15 days ago, or would it not spoil Bakoyannis' jungles? What would the bill offer? Tell us a little bit to understand. Why do we legislate, legislate, but here we are not looking at the substance. They whine to scoff at their clients, whom they are now "hacking" and uprooting them, but when they rule out them, they rule and rule with MATs and bells. Then they're rivals, now they're with them. We were told by SYRIZA's colleague Mr Giolas, I think,'since September you will see what will happen'. How do you know, partner? Do you have any information, do you know that since September we're going to have incidents? Are you directing them? How do you know that since September we have incidents? Maybe so, maybe not. You know that? What are you doing? Are you inciting violence? I don't really understand what SYRIZA's doing. Did he tell us the violence today? What does SYRIZA do exactly? How do you know that from September we will have violence and that the people will give the answers to the road? Because the people also give the answers to the JRC, but they don't open a nostril. Because that is all organized and what demonstrations should be, and it is an example, and we say it, because that is what logic says. We don't care about the party. That's what logic says. But the other thing is, the mess? Let me get this straight. Mr. Chrysochoid, what will this story offer on the stadiums? I'm telling you again that we vote for the bill, with a heavy heart, and I'll tell you why. Because you're stereophobic. You're afraid not to get mad at them. We told you that this bill is a very light one, because it should be a felony, Mr Chrysochide, and not a misdemeanour. Only in this way will we prevent lawlessness, violence, mess and all that is happening in our country. Is there a MP here from any party - do I not care about the fact that I am interested in the fact that some people in our country, our shops, our squares, vandalising statues, breaking shops, burning cars? Is there one? From you, then, who do not vote on this bill - and you do well - a proposal - I have not heard of how to deal with the mess, how to catch the 'unknown strangers'. A proposition! Why don't you help yourself on the road and say 'no, we'll help', we know who they are. But the protests! What does the protest and protest have to do with the state’s battering and lawlessness and burning? What does this have to do with, Minister - I am telling you - the demonstrations with 2006 at the Polytechnic? Do you remember the cardiner's case? In 2007, in Lavrio, the murder of Philopoulos? In 2008, the December, two weeks of hitting each other? In 2010, Marfin, who lost people, in 2018 in Pisoteri, in Prespecies, we had sixteen wounded, in 2020, do you remember in Lesvos and Chios what the Greeks had eaten? What are these now, so I can understand? Do we want these protests? We will either make a decision to be able to enforce order in the country, with the right to protest that we all want or will satisfy each other's audience, and you will also be the 'blacks' who either you want with you now or you have them in front of you when you govern. That is the case, Mr Chrysochoid. Please answer me a lot later if you think that this bill will solve a problem. I shall end, Madam President, because we have heard a great deal about this today. What's violence? We have heard it say that 'violence is the right of the man you take it away'. I'll tell you what is violence, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Left, where you ruled. Because we did not govern, we did not legislate, we did not have the possibility for three, four, five years to run the country, to legislate, not manage and now say any more. You have had that opportunity. I'll tell you what's violence. Do you know what violence is, you invoke the violence today? Violence is the memos you signed. That's violence. Violence is the'magasies' that you have set and heard right and left the tapes, the 'White House', these are violence and promotion in the world. Violence is the offense we hear, violence is the broken windows of Greek individuals, violence is the burnt cars, violence is the impoverishment of the Greek citizen, violence is the sale of Macedonia, violence is the Islamization of the country by force, violence is the mess. That's violence. Violence is the occupied universities that you applaud. These are violence. Mr Chrysochide, I will say one last, unrelated to the bill, because I have no time and that is what I shall close, Madam President. We had a really bad news today, and we should all protest, move. I don't want to believe it's true. I have first information that the President of Turkey's association of journalists and international social media said a few minutes ago that the council of dominance unanimously annulled the decision of Agia Sophia on 27-11-1934 and must be made mosque. The finish came in, the countdown began. It's his post a few minutes ago on twitter. I hope this news is not confirmed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Lykoulis now has the floor from the Change Movement and immediately afterwards Mr Kelles from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the bill we are discussing was the subject of a thorough political analysis, a serious study, a special approach, so that today we can discuss a new bill in relation to what you have brought us, Minister. Our interventions changed the bill. We have chosen this way, ladies and gentlemen, with complete consciousness and consciousness of our duty as worthy of opposition, with positions, proposals, objections, red lines, with clear recognition of the right and wrong. We have chosen to be useful and not populists, we have consciously chosen the path of responsibility, the difficult path of consistency towards the modern democratic state, the rule of law which demands that everyone's rights be respected, but also when they conflict, regulated by institutional guarantors. That was the way he chose the Change Movement. It was a choice of a serious and responsible attitude, with work, proposals, corrections, with painful and persistent dialogue within the committee. You see, fate is again the ones who have lifted the burden of Officer Response, because you still cannot respond to it. Today, through its rapporteur, Mrs Ragosi, who told us in a dry mouth - I heard you asking for water - and as we saw with a shaky voice - you see the credentials, especially if you have said extreme things, such as the unforgettable: "he is the most dishonest Prime Minister of post-population" for your former Prime Minister and now your leader - you have done a buckle, selective, of course, with a little of everything. You've confused things. You brought us the yellow vests, a little bankrupt, you took it, a little bit of supposed figurativeness of former comrades, dear Michaeli, along with rebuke. You fought him with the Minister. "Between who are you sitting at?" you told him. Traces of self-criticism, rapporteur of Officer Opposition! Among whom do you sit and who have you seated at times? I'm revoking my memory and what should I be minded of? Remember the PASOK, the Change Movement, again the PASOK, the decision time? Wasn't you the Deputy Minister of Mr. Avramopoulos? Weren't you sitting at the same table with Mr. Voridis in the government of Papademos? You spoke today about the Council of State, beating the documents in the hand and saying 'I'll take you there'. Um, you're not going! That's where the mayors went for the superstition and the tens of thousands of nineteen real estate you committed in one night. The decision of the Council of State was for you. It gave you, saying that you were illegally and improperly bound by your government within one night the entire property of the Greek people with an illegal decision for which you will be asked to apologise. And tell us why you truly bound the properties on June 19th and started to check them out on June 28th to find out who they were and who they were not excellent. It was you, Madam President, who reminded us of the decisions of the police department in SYRIZA, please, on the left, in 2017 when Mr McCron came and in 2019 when Mrs Merkel came to ban meetings and public demonstrations. What do you have to say about them? How short a memory do you think the Greek people have? You think he doesn't see he's not watching? I personally share all the shocking events in your party within you. That is why you also adopt extreme positions and verbalism. You want a political swimming pool of Siloam. This bill is a very good opportunity. But the Greek people are watching: outraged, entrepreneurial, cassettes, "White House", Ministers, Prime Ministers, at the eternal bazaar of the shops, the paragons and dizzy! So how are you going to be convinced? I've heard you talk about murders of characters. But you have murdered truth in cold blood the innocence of the innocence of the political youth of our people and the hope you have given him, but he never came. But you still sell it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us say everything quietly and simply and say it beautifully and not deformed. It is not possible today for people to speak like Cretan and tomorrow as the Antigone. So it has a great difference and distance from one another. For those who are, of course, in the political round, this is usually simple and easy. But let us stick seriously and responsibly to the political assumptions. Is there a question of regulating the situation, yes or no? There's not a bit of a yes to say yes, but don't set it up. There's a setup thing. The right to assemble, Minister, is a democratic conquest of citizens and should remain inalienable and inconsistent. Your bill came with a shocking craftsmanship and a political illegality. We lifted our sleeves and changed the law. There was an exhaustive debate in the committees. We requested institutional guarantees for meetings, guarantees that were not in the original form of the bill. If there was no change movement, the bill would pass by majority the way it came. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When you brought it, it was a police bill, a bill with carabinata issues of constitutionality, a heterogeneous bill. Since the first debate, we have seen 'typical', but we have also seen 'faecal'. You told us that it was the proposal for a law by our mayor and now our Member, Mr Kamine. It wasn't like that. It was Mr Kamine's proposal that, having removed Mr Kamine's proposal from constitutional and ideological and political terms. That's why we filled it. That's why we put on the red lines. That is why we asked if there were any indications that the meeting would be turned into a violent one, that it would not be dissolved by a police decision, but that the prosecutor would be there, that there would be the consent of the representative of the judiciary, that there would be no ban on a demonstration by the competent police authority with only the simple opinion of the mayor. That's not good enough, Minister. You understood it yourself. We have called for the immediate withdrawal of the specific offence - so much a reason - of Article 13(1).
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u268	I shall conclude, Madam President. Now, Minister, after this has passed with our labors, our struggles, our voices, our red lines, we ask that your step should not be left at the moment, and you can do so. Because it will be a time-consuming step in terms of civil liability. This legal omission is not sufficient. The burden of proof is unprecedented for the defendant. You know that. As also, what you did is not enough. We cannot vote for it like that. We also have an amendment for chemicals - not to say anything further - that the independent authority of the Citizens' Counsel has said what it means. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I just want to say that we have felt our historic destiny. That's our fate, no matter where it takes us. 40%, 50%, 20%, 8%? It is our historic destiny to be the institutional guarantors and guardians of true democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Kelles has the floor now from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Ljupi also from New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will close at 12 o'clock at night and go about by number 75-76. I'm saying this so you won't stay late if you're not on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u270	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Minister, Deputy Minister, our government completed a year ago and continues to hold a great lead in all the polls against the Police Officer. Why is that? Because we are honest with the Greek people, because we are doing our commitments, and indeed, at a remarkable speed and in many cases much earlier than we promised. After the reduction of taxation and positive fiscal measures leading to growth, the transition to the terminal and digital state, the recovery of the country's international credibility, as reflected in low loan interest rates and, of course, the defence of our national security in Evros and the Aegean, as well as the victorious battle against the coronary, our Government strengthens public security with a bill that is deeply democratic. The bill's core is the state's respect for everyone, but also the mutual respect for citizens. In principle, the right to assemble is fully shielded in public, in an open space, in accordance with our Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, so that public security is not put at serious risk and so that socio-economic life is not over-affected. We are in favour of the free and spontaneous demonstration of every industry and body, who want to make their demands known to the public, on the one hand, that they respect society as a whole first and foremost. Is there, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who disagrees with the fact that the right to work is greater than the right to protest? Is it possible to paralyse the center of Athens day after day? With the exception of PAME, which is protesting organized and with protective groups, I did not see, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, any of you interested in the workers and businesses who have been suffering all these years, especially the professionals who have shops, strive to see whether their shop will be in the next day or whether they will have to make it from the start. I am referring not only to shopkeepers at risk at the door, but also to the people in the centre who saw their cars burned, to those who saw in their neighborhoods, but also to students and staff from universities who lived for years in terror, whether they were attacked in their schools by extra-university violations. Don't they all have rights? We're hearing about junta and inspirational law. Of course, no one would expect anything different from you, from SYRIZA, in this bill from you! That's what you know to do, that's what you've been doing all the years since post-population. Of course, we're not talking about exercising a right. The vast majority of the Greek people want security. This majority represents and protects today the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis who defends the rule of law and the equality of all Greeks and Greeks. No social group and no quarrel have the right to force the people to be forced to do so. Understood! The few will never trouble the many again. After the abolition of asylum in universities and the strengthening of the sense of security in every neighbourhood, the Minister for Civil Protection is engaging in public security with a piece of legislation which exists in every modern and progressive legal order. The categorisation of public meetings, in order to take mildly the appropriate incident avoidance measures in conjunction with the definitions of a responsible organiser and warring team in terms of demonstrators and an officer responsible, will ensure communication between the two parties, while identifying and isolating those who are invading and causing unrest. At the same time, restrictions are provided for allowing socio-economic life to function properly and for demonstrators to demonstrate whenever they want to do so safely. In cases of a small number of protesters, the protest will take place either on the sidewalk or on a lane, so that traffic is not hindered. Finally, it is extremely important that provisions on civil liability are introduced. The organiser of each meeting shall be responsible for compensation for those who have suffered damage to their life, physical integrity and ownership by participants in the public outdoor meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill: "Public outdoor meetings and other provisions" is a critical bill, which strengthens the work of our Government for a Greek light that guarantees the safety of citizens. Security is a prerequisite for the effective functioning of our democracy and sustainable development. We close a year of governance and vote for this draft law by honoring the firm confidence of Greeks and Greeks. We upgrade public security, bowing to the sacred memory of Marfin's victims and shouting: "Never again!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u271	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from New Democracy has the floor now, and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Pafilis. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u272	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is a serious point of friction between the government and opposition. The legal framework established for the first time for outdoor meetings was created by the undeniable need to enter a class in the picture, which is mainly the center of Athens, but also to protect human life and property effectively. This is a practice implemented in many European countries, such as Germany, France, Spain, as we have heard from a previous speaker. As shown by the debate in committee, but also here today, it is unthinkable for some to have certain rules at the marches and at the public meetings. Of course, the right to assembly is enshrined in the Constitution and is protected as one of the fundamental individual and social rights. But, as always, the concept of the right, in no way corresponds to the abuse of the rights of others. Restrictions and the adoption of rules in public meetings by law are provided for directly by Article 11 of the Constitution, in so far as there is a serious risk to public security or a serious disturbance to social and economic life. The draft law in question applies the constitutional provision with full respect for the principles of necessity and proportionality. It aims at a balance between the right of 'collective' on the one hand and the guarantee of public security and socio-economic life on the other. Kobia is the role of the organizer, who informs the police or the Port Body in writing or in electronic form of the upcoming public meeting. It shall cooperate with the competent authorities and inform the participants of its obligation not to bear any articles related to the exercise of force, and shall also ensure that a protective group is designated. Karyos is the role of the police or port ombudsman who is the interlocutor of the police or port authorities with the organizer of the concentration. It is envisaged that a meeting should be banned if it is considered that there is a risk to public security or to the social and economic life of the region and, of course, when it comes to the concentration. Alternatively, if necessary, restrictions such as the occupation of part of the road only may be imposed. The competent authorities may dismantle public outdoor meetings only in specific cases: When a decision has been adopted to ban it or when the participants have not complied with the restrictions or when there is a record of the use of force and serious criminal offences, or when the procedure has not been followed. In any case, the bill contains all the necessary guarantees that ensure the implementation of legality and the dissolution of any suspicion of police arbitrary. The prohibition of a public meeting shall require the assent of the President at first instance. The imposition of restrictions requires a simple opinion of the mayors or responsible presidents or directors of public port management and operation bodies. The dismantling of a public meeting shall require the assent of the Advocate-General for the first time. The possibility of spontaneous concentration is, of course, foreseen, and in this case and if there is no risk to public security or social and economic life, the participants may be asked to appoint an organiser. On a special website the public can be informed of scheduled marches and traffic regulations. The change sought by this bill is very important, in my view. For the first time, the peaceful nature of a course or a public meeting is inspired. For the first time, rules are laid down to respect everyone's rights. People are appointed, who are responsible for the smooth conduct of a group public protest, and for the first time the property is effectively protected, but above all the physical integrity and life of the citizens. The cover is no longer covered behind the anonymity. Those who wish to remain in the current reality fall under the regime of never being accountable for the disasters in shops, in vehicles, in public property or in the lives of citizens. Finally, I wonder who really can take the burden of this enormous responsibility and how it can justify such a position before the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u273	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u274	A little as much as the government and the government's MPs, in addition to the things they are invoking, which anyone would say is a little provocative - I will say why it is provocative - it shows us that it is a bill, anyway, which comes to order in the instability of the demonstrations and which, as you say, constitutes a demand for society. Where do you get that conclusion from? Where's Mr. Chrysochoids telling us? Where do you draw the arbitrary conclusion that this is a requirement for Greek society? From the fact that 99% of clubs, people's organisations, private and public sector, federations, even GSE- hypocrisy, are reading about the following policy - are they against? Aren't they expressing society? Who's expressing it, really? Where do you get the conclusion from? Of all the neo-liberal bodies that refuse and say they won't implement it? Aren't they expressing society? Who's expressing it? As a whole, the lawyers who say'remove it' do not express anything? Don't you recognize them? On the contrary, they are too. Even the judiciary goes out and not only does it reject it and says'retire it', but indirectly but clearly, I would say, 'I will not play the role of the municipality of popular mobilisation'. Isn't that what their decisions say? So what do you say to us that they are expressing what the whole society wants? From the fact that hundreds of people of science, art, culture, universities, whatever you want, are opposed and say they are a monstrous thing? What society, really, is it a requirement? Society is not something uniform. There are classes in society. And Laskaris didn't break them either. There are classes. So you, the New Democracy advocate of KINAL, who took the symphony leaf - for SYRIZA, will say the rest of the aftermath, which has come to the tiles with the law that had been abolished and restored by the New Democracy, ironic is that - you express that overwhelming minority, the interests and will of that overwhelming majority who owns the wealth and power, ending up with the strife of the overwhelming majority of the people. Is it like this or not? Let me tell you at percentages. 1% of the world's population holds about 90% - it's a monkey 60% - of the world's wealth. Can you give us a clue in Greece? I'm telling you one: 10% owns over 60% of the country's wealth. That is what you are expressing. They want cemetery silence, they feel threatened with their profits, money, wealth, power, taking advantage of the blood and sweat of the vast majority of the people. They're scared. But didn't Communism fall and end as an ideology? What are you afraid of? I'll say below. They're afraid of the popular movement. Don't tell us about the little mamazators. Who destroyed them? The memorials, one after the other and all, your policy. Two hundred thousand micro-enterprises are closed. Anyway, the little mamazators on Hippocrates Street, I'll say, where I live, which is not a center, in Peristeri, in New Ionia, which closes, shuts down from the protests? What are you talking about? That's why we say it's provocative. You're telling us they're breaking windows. Yeah, they do. Who? The organized people's movement? Oh, no. What have you been doing all these years? Why don't you catch them? Why don't you find them? How do they work? Regardless of intentions, I say. Communicating cans. Yesterday they broke the cardinals - I don't know exactly what happened - and today the Greek Solution and various others came up with arguments that the people's movement is coming out of the world? - that's what's doing the damage. That's what the movement has answered. Do you know how he's answered, Mr. Chrysochide? "Professionals with no money, no work." They don't need much. This is tapa, as we used to say, in your arguments. Cheques of the European Union's capital and policy, and the revelations will be made here. What's the name? He's a link to an ongoing and escalating state terrorism. It is a continuation of repression, which all governments have never stopped. They simply upgrade, adapt to modern conditions, mainly by looking at, not in today, but in the future. Because everyone knows, even the bourgeoismen themselves, about the forthcoming major capitalist crisis and about the general question of capitalism. Lenin’s statue that was in America, a hamburger in Denmark, and various things began to grow and some are having nightmares, just seeing them. It's a continuation of the previous governments. State repression has never stopped, gentlemen, and PASOK - I say PASOK, because PASOK was then - and SYRIZA, low, very low profile. When did it stop, really? Never. What did it depend on? From the level of the People's Movement and from the political and economic contexts. Every time new anti-grass measures were taken, the cord of authoritarianism was always intimidated. We need a lot of time, but I'll talk fast. I'm going backwards, starting with the years of the junta fall and the New Democracy Government. They beat us to death. What did we do? Forward to go to Lambraki's, to remind us, because we were partners with Mr Chrysochide and others. What did we want? Let's go testify a wreath to the place where Lambrakis was murdered. And then the MATs showed up and they beat us to death. That's how it started. Should I say the laws, the Law 330 of Laskaris? Should I say the hit on the builders' strikes and all the others? Then we go to the second four years of PASOK, because in the first, another wind was drinking. Then a slogan was said, if you remember: "MATs and ACE for a new Greece!" GSEE Command erupted overnight, yes or no, Mr. Scandalides?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u275	As you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u276	Hit all the protests. I'll say the top one. Mr. Prison isn't here. In 1999, a visit by Clinton to Greece, painted in Yugoslavia, when 90% of the Greek people opposed it. He came, the first time he postponed the visit, because there are many communists in Greece. That's what he said. It was all the people, it wasn't just the communists. Secondly, we demand that both the government and the Americans do not go to the American embassy. We have given a guarantee, said we have five thousand people - I will say it open - we will do one hour and ten minutes and we do nothing to prevent anything, yes or no, Mr Chrysochide? Did I tell you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u278	I'm glad you recognize it. Guarantees, then. What was the result? Three and a half tonnes chemically and extinct, indeed. It couldn't have been war. At the same time, a provocative plan. Because we're saying a lot that, of course, are there these teams, etc., caught or not five American agents? What was the plan? Get us locked up from the University and the Academy and all the MATs and become hell. The fact that we didn't have dead was random. Of course, there was a way out, and that was a strategic move and we left Hermos. Mrs. Pappaya went to Simitis the next day with the CIA's five identities and identities. What happened? Because that is where others act and they combine independently of various children and others, who think that, by breaking the windows, they will make the revolution. That is why, Mr Ragosi, I heard you say 'except for visits by foreign leaders'. Really? Do we not have the right to protest when a foreign leader comes, such as Clinton in particular then and with Yugoslavia's war? The next is the Pangalou statement "Papagaga's capitals burned Athens", first page - see - the next day. He didn't know? He knew. Didn't Mr. Prison know who burned them, who set fires? They knew. Why did he say that? Just for what both your logic and arguments serve to slander the popular movement. It was thirty thousand people then and they weren't the ones who put on fire. We made a symbolic move. Nothing else. We do not accept, the Americans dictate to us what we are going to do in our country. Can I say any more? The strikes were 99% illegal and PASOK was cornering things. Governments of Memorandums. We know. Stop you in the New Democracy talking about MARFIN. What does the people have to do with this murder that happened? Who are you who's been ruling all these years and you haven't caught anyone? Instead of looking at yourself in the mirror, you do mold, literally to draw arguments. I could say too many names of murdered and executed, in fact, on your government: Koumis, Kanellopoulou, Kaltezas. How many were there? There was a dead builder who had a problem but died of chemicals. We never used it. So stop this scavenger to slander the working people's movement. Let's go to SYRIZA. Let's see what happened? You abolished the terrorist? It was your commitment. On the contrary, we have new European Union directives. If you allow me, Madam President, I will take my denial and I will not speak again. Now I'll go to the most essential. What do you want to do? Let's see now. First of all, you think it will be announced. Right now we're working? Doesn't the police know now or does he not read newspapers? Every morning we know. Isn't that right, Mr. Economou? He doesn't know it's going to happen two and three and a week, except for emergencies? That's for the announcement, let's say, anyway, we're swallowing it. We don't swallow it, but we say. Secondly, responsible and civil responsibility. What are you talking about? Aren't there any administrations? Aren't there mass bodies with names and addresses? What do you want? You're doing this to threaten that whoever goes and whoever organises, tomorrow goes to court and runs to prove that it's not his fault if there were incidents. Where did that sound? That's your job, and it's not everyone's business. You're going to be charged all over the world with any episodes that might happen. Third theme: Ministries, ECO, Parliament. Is he in there? Syntagma Square? Do you want to send us to Calogresa on the field? Or do you want to send people to Psythtalia? These are symbolic signs that you want to do. It can't be outside the House that there's no gathering. It can't be outside the Department of Labour that people get killed and there's no protest. These were some of all issues. Eventually, castration. What is the ideological core and the policy of Article 19? In fact, in Article 19: radicalization, violent modernisation, domestic, racial violence, bulling - which is an issue - and gangs of students. Made in USA. This is copying the 'Wild side story' type, to say an old movie of our time. And a lot more. American way of life. That's him. Get the TV to see how it disciplines the whole world. Who's gonna do this? Will Bulling solve it if you go to school to kids with adolescents and others? Oh, no. That's the cover. So what does the European Union say? In 2005, the European Union's Committee of Experts on Radicalisation was launched recently. Mrs Vulture spoke, which offered a great deal of service. In her agony to defend this bill, she told us that they put in plaster social democrat or left - within eight introductory words, not one - governments of the European Union and they have what that is, but, of course, demonstrations are carried out. So let's see, the Radicalisation Radical Awareness Network 'Erasmus+', a programme that you finance and gives instructions to them, as he says, on the frontline workers. Just the text: "The three most widespread forms of radicalized thinking in modern Europe: the extreme right thinking, the right-wing thinking and the radicalised Islam". All together in the same bag. Yes, sir! The fascists themselves, and the jihadists themselves - to say so - themselves, Communists, who want another society or people who are not communists, but want a society fairer or fairer. Too much? He continues: “The supporters of radicalised left-wing ideologies are placed left by social democracy.” Don't be afraid, look out, so you didn't make a song. We continue: "Their view of society means a commitment to equality and redistribution of income." Mr. Chrysochoid, what crime is it? Asking for equality and redistribution of income? That's what it says. "The supporters of the radical left claim to be a step for the unemployed, etc.." ‘They reject the underlying capitalist values, which are considered the main cause of social inequality.’ Isn't it? What is it? The fascist theory isn't all fingers the same? Aren't these inequality? This system? I cursed this, too, radicalism, extremism. "The radical leftists are strongly opposed to the established political and economic elite." Well, you don't go to hell, nobody says! But who do you fight for this situation in the world and Greece? The economic elites, with wealth in their hands and policies that implement this policy. You're asking to distract, and those who are more advanced, to change society and build a fair society. This is terrorism and extremism. He also says about NATO and more. Now listen. I mean, mercy. They're doing the terrible crime. It says: 'They are also opposed to the growing privatisation of education, health and transport and to international free trade agreements'. Really? Crime, too? Terrorism? He says: "They are internationalists, because cross-border cooperation is considered a basis to resist the attack of global capitalism...". Is that right? When it is the internationalisation of European Union NATO, International Monetary Fund, World Trade Organization, then it is good! When it's an international worker, it's terrorism! We therefore repeat 'proletarians of all countries, unite'. I'm done. I'd like to say more. Finally, I also wanted to respond in the form of a statement or a threat 'The law will be implemented', so you say. Mr. Chrysochoid, we know each other. Others have said it all the years. And others said it. All the conquests were made after hard controversy, bloody, bloody struggles, with victims whose rivers were fertilized for new struggles. No one was able to stop them or they would stop them. History had a few twists. We are in a difficult situation, but this is preparing for the next counter-attack of the peoples, who can no longer stand. It's such an injustice that it drowns and will give birth to new social revolutions. The JRC calls on the working people's movement, young people in organised discipline in this law, not to apply. We call it the Stepma, we're not afraid. The threat of the people responding and we will respond with two words'molly received'. And we mean it. We're not teams, not the folk movement are teams. It's thousands, hundreds of thousands, and there's gonna be millions. If you want, come and hit it. Here we go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Marcos has the floor for six minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot resist the temptation after Mr Pafiley's speech to make a comment. Mr. Paphie, when reality is different from your account, then evil is for reality. We abolished him in 2015. You said inaccurate. In fact, it was kept for the robbery only. That's the one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u281	We have said about the 'terrorism'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u282	Please, sir! Second, do you remember the Syntagma Square and the streets around before the SYRIZA government arrives? Do you remember the bars and the many MATs that were filled with the place? Did you make a comparison with what was going on for four and a half years? So when your account doesn't match reality, it's not bad for reality, it's about your account.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u283	Take permission and say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has two dominant figures: Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Chrysochoidis. Let's look at both contours. It is clear, even in the eyes of the most trusted observer, that the government, instead of looking toward the future, has persistently looked into the past. Mr Mitsotakis looks at the past of the memorials. He praises, in an interview with the FINANCIAL TIMES, the hard neoliberal policies of the Troika itself, making it clear that he intends to adopt them and implement them as his own policy. At the same time, he turns his mind even older in the era of EPE and the Greek Alert. Mr Chrysochoidis has a long presence at the Ministry, generally associated with authoritarian initiatives. Mr. Chrysochoid, I honestly tell you. At some point you have to do an internal reading. That bomb that broke into the hands of Xeros did you great harm, personally, to you, both in your ideological development and in your politics. You have fallen victim to this success. I say it with a lot of love. A great strain on a party that met in its last short government life, either during its self-responsibility or as the useful hand of the Right, intense popular reactions, mobilisations, contributors, which led to its bold fall and revolts from one of the darkest times in our country's history, and today introduces a bill that contains a set of extreme authoritarian measures, which drastically curtails the right of workers and the people to conduct public gatherings and demonstrations. You have closed down one year in power, one year in which a coordinated attack plan is implemented on a number of basic social rights. Let's see. It was considered and is a law of inspiration, but also of the immediate post-election state. I would like to submit to the Minutes of the House - you can also find them in the Ministry, of course, but for your sake I found it - the 1958 Spatial Guard Regulation. He says, therefore, his famous writer: "The relevant Commander of the Spatial Force is going with the representative of the administrative authority and the Prosecutor of the Primary Government, invited in due time, to the place of concentration and urges the crowd to dissolve. When he does not listen, three invitations shall be made.’; Then he says, even with the subcons, etc. We are missing the colleagues of the Change Movement and Mr Kamines. It wasn't Mr. Kamin's inspiration that the amendment he's tabled was. It was 1958 of the countryguard of the time. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Markou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your attack on democratic rights began with the abolition of university asylum, the reduction of socially acquired, democratic rights, obstacles to strike, noisyly by applying the most intense police rule, repression. I don't know how proud you might be for the recent weekend. Police enter the Exarchy stores, beat civilians sitting with no intention of illegality and enjoying their coffee or drink, go to Victoria Square, beating mothers. This is the pride of the class, where do you want to bring it? Amid pandemic and quarantine, assault on the forehead of education and everywhere. So you come by catching this thread, and we are discussing a new package of anti-democratic measures. Bring a written text of inspiration, with your eyes turned into disgraceful conditions, which at the moment is facing the overwhelming part of our people and you are preparing to carve on the backs of society with lime and plaster a one-way of authoritarian and regression, with violence and repression. The draft law is supposed to cover a gap: the absence of an executive law to regulate the exercise of the right to a meeting. But what is the framework that it needs? It is a framework that must safeguard the right of assembly and not police it, as you are trying to do, to regulate how the police themselves will facilitate the exercise of this right, but how the legitimate and necessary safeguarding of other constitutional rights will be possible. Determine how the police act and function with mildness. If you read the spatial guard's text, it's amazing how he urges the rangers to discuss the protesters and try to convince them. Clearly and unequivocally, the police will use mild force. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Madam President. Which one of these gaps do you come to cover? None. The criminalisation of social protest and, at the same time, moralization. You argue that the blockade of social and economic life is an argument. Did you really count these days the first terrorist to hamper the social and economic life of the Centre, which is the "oldest" mayor, Mr Bakoyannis? Will you come to see how far the protests hinder trade and how much the Mayor of Athens's initiatives? You think merchants don't know that there's no people in their shops because it's because of the recession and not the rights protesters? Of course, you cannot hide your fear of the upcoming social reaction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Something has been mentioned before. So we read in the article “Constitution, pursuant to an article of interpretation” of 2017, under the responsibility, approval and acceptance of four constitutionalists, by a writer, Anna Tsifsoglu, in the relevant article, to develop the view that the right to the meeting is not subject to authorisation, announcement or prudential supervision by the police, as was done in abnormal times before. Do you know who's one of the four prescribers? Mr. Gerapitris. Our political life is very interesting from now on, because we will find - as we have found them in education - Mr Gerapitris's opinions. I'm putting down the coin, which, for your sake, I found, so that you could have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u285	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u286	And, of course, the President of the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, Mr Sevastides, is tabling: The recipe is old. When the state wants to incorporate a constitutional right, it does not do so directly, on the one hand, because it is prevented by the unmoved process of constitutional reform, on the other hand because it causes uncontrolled social reactions. But he has other weapons. It adopts laws that restrict it and leave it a shell of steroids. That is what you have done, and in Article 16 for education. As the previous ones have said, however, you will do nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Comrade, please. You've gone far beyond time. You have spoken for another three minutes and other Members will not be able to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u288	I'm ending with a saying. Please don't deprive me of my last line.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u289	I won't deprive you. You also lack the opportunity to give the floor to your other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u290	Georgios Papandreou in the 1960s in the ancestors of Mitsotakis and New Democracy said: "Build a status of internal occupation and we are national resistance". Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u291	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I would ask colleagues to speak for six minutes, because there are so many colleagues from those who have spoken since this morning to speak until 24.00 a.m. Mrs. Gara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u292	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of arguments have been heard which degrade today's draft law, which we are debating. However, in my assessment, the draft law on the prohibition of demonstrations comes to confirm three things: first, the authoritarian office of the government. Secondly, the full dominance of the right-wing pocket of the New Democracy, which holds Prime Minister Mitsotakis hostage. Thirdly and more importantly, it demonstrates the fear of the government towards society. In other words, you are motivated by your fear, fear of the people and their reactions, fear of youth, of the citizens who claim, who fight, who dream, of terror - terror! - in front of all those who dare to raise their heads, unite their voices against an anti-popular, authoritarian, vengeful government. Fear the people, not only because you have already designed and implemented their poverty, but because you are not part of this people. Because you've always been across the street. Because you've always served and been part of a particular elite. That is why you are trying, with anti-constitutional legislation, to squeeze him, effectively abolishing the guaranteed and historic constitutional right of assembly. So fear, and you are trying with today's draft law to prevent social protest, which has already begun to appear. You know the wounds that you have created in the economy well before the coming of the coronary and the health pandemic. You know the deep recession you are causing with your neoliberal choices. You know the poverty and unemployment you bring. You know that small and medium-sized enterprises are suffocating and closing massively. You know that young people don't have a job prospects. You know that the real economy is winter on your own and only your own choice. The primary sector is shrinking, tourism and focus are dispersed, while at the same time you are giggling the services of others, scandals, the enrichment of a few families, the arbitrary, structural and indivisible elements of your own policy. So you know that the citizens will react. Instead of responding to the real problems of society, to the economy, to work, to the emergence of comparative advantages in the country and to the development of policies, you are currently bringing in a fascinating, fascinating bill, which even turns us back from the 1952 post-election Constitution. So you understand that what you need to change is your neoliberal anti-grassroots policies, so that the people do not react and not the framework for limiting the reactions. Gentlemen of the Government, even the Association of Prosecutors, the Plenary Assembly of the Bar Associations and the Scientific Service of the House themselves pointed out to you unconstitutional provisions of your bill. But he doesn't touch you. Unfortunately, he's not touching you! Because you have never given priority to the Constitution, democracy, institutions, rights, society itself, the needs of society. There is nothing, of course, astonishing us about a government, which, with great ease, is attacking the citizens. I wonder: will you ban a block of peasants tomorrow, or will you become a retired person's gathering complaining about the new cuts in pensions you bring or a course of teachers who will defend the public school that you are also going to deliver to private schools? Will you ban demonstrations by young people who claim employment, decent wages, peace, environmental protection? Will you punish citizens who protest at auctions when others lose their home? Will you arrest them? Will you arrest the children? Ladies and gentlemen, please invoke your legality and pro-European identity. But you do nothing to hit the iniquity of the scandals of your executives, who are engulfing the political and economic life of the place. Scandals and policies, which bankrupt the country, brought memorials, bankrupt even the value of politics. So it seems that the government is not interested in hitting lawlessness in general. But she is interested in hitting the claims and the struggles of the citizens. If you wish to call on the European ideal, remember at least the European Enlightenment, the French Revolution and other historical movements, which established the principles of Europeanism. So you're saying you're putting rules on the protests. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors notes that the current legal framework is sufficient. You say that small concentrations will be limited to the sidewalk, a provision that already applies since 2012. You're saying the streets and shops won't close, but you're reassuring that for the multiplier protests it doesn't change anything. Your arguments are bare. What are you actually doing? You're not regulating anything. Instead, you are limiting, sneezing, criminalizing organised or even spontaneous citizens' gatherings. You're trying to curtail mass popular reactions. And on the other hand, you are lying to create a record that will rally, it will satisfy your extreme conservative audience. Once again, you are caught in a sterile idealism, in a populist speech of deep regression and authoritarianism in culture. Minister, even if there have been extreme cases of abuse of the right to assembly in the past, is the question of repressive interference, prohibitions and intimidation of citizens? Or should we talk mildly about ways and means so that the police can really protect the citizens' right to protest and gather? Do you want the police, the police domination? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Little tolerance, Madam President. Faced with all this, in the face of fear, repression and authoritarianism, which the government is trying to sow, as it is well aware of the dead-ends which lead Greek society to its policies, the democratic response, the democratic vigilance of citizens will be relentless. We, SYRIZA, the great progressive, democratic party of the country, are sure that we will not allow you to take this place back to the moor and bankruptcy. Remember, fear, authoritarianism breaks in the street. Dreams, democratic rights, life, work, races are won on the street and history is written on the road. A road that scares you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u293	Thank you too, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u294	Madam President, I want the floor for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u295	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u296	We will make a request for a roll-call vote. I'm saying it so they know it. I'll bring her to you now, and I'll testify to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u297	All right, Mr. Comrade. Mr Katsotis, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Madam President. We are also calling on the workers, the pensioners, the self-employed, the unemployed, and especially the young and the young, to express their opposition to the bill, which wants to hit the struggles for life which all of them deserve. We invite you tomorrow 20.00 hours to protest the trade unions in the Constitution. What's the bill worth? It seeks to shield the sovereignty of capital, by strengthening the repression measures against the labour movement, particularly against the few who realize their position, the strength of the working class, the path of liberation. That is why the legislative framework is adapted to the official policy of the European Union, to its decisions to tackle radicalisation, which, on the basis of this, are persecuted by communist parties and imprisoned by their officials. What does this policy mean? The fear of the ghost of communism, erected in Europe, which all of Europe's urban forces have been united in a "Jerussian Alliance" to chase this "Ghost", somewhat paraphrased, as Marx wrote in 1848 at the Communist Manifesto. The incorporation into this line of persecution of those brought by radical, subversive ideas, by the ideology of violence - as you call them - is the demand of the bourgeoisie and its parties. The history of all societies so far is a story of class struggles, hard conflicts between exploiters and exploiters. The dead were thousands in the fair and unequal struggle. The vast majority of people's populations have participated in struggles which have become either small or large. But let us accept that the majority does not participate, as you say. Do you think they're hostile in the games, as you want to present them? Fear from employers' and state terrorism, the influence of the theory of the practicable, the realistic that keeps temporarily or periodically outside the struggles, to know that it does not make them hostile. They're watching the games and they want to be effective. They are missing their bodies, but their hearts are there and they are more than certain that they will also pass the "Rubicon", as our people say. You say that you are safeguarding the right to protest and to the regulations of the bill, and the rights of many are guaranteed. We note that the same argument was used by all of you to suppress it was used to reduce the right to strike by SYRIZA, voted by the New Democracy. So the resistances were also criminalised, the responses to the auctions, which Mrs Gara said earlier: "What are you going to do, you're going to hit them?", while they created this framework. What is it you want? You want to apply the anti-fraud legislative framework, which ensures the needs of monopolistic and business groups. For the urban state, the European Union, NATO and its governments to ensure public security and socio-economic life is not questioning the capitalist economy, the acceptance, tolerance of the barbarity of the system, the exploitation of human beings, imperialist interventions, wars. Who really puts public security and socio-economic life at risk? Do you want to list cases where the MATs are outside the factory premises when the workers claim? So who is in danger? The one who's fired or the one who's claiming his job? The one who doesn't pay the prizes or the one who claims them? The person who obliges millions of workers in irrational forms of work and their equivalent life or those who claim full-time work with full-time rights? The government, cutting pensions or pensioners claiming pensions for a decent living? The government, which is in agreement with the European Union and is holding refugees hostages in our country with consequences for the inhabitants of our country or the people, who still require borders to be transported to their countries of choice? The government, involving our country in the imperialist competitions and wars granting land, air and sea to the US and NATO with billions of costs for equipment on military missions or the people, fighting for any involvement, closure of bases, exit from NATO? This is all about you as an ideology of violence, radicalisation. Invite the oligorithm groups, which are allegedly occupying the pavement. No little gathering's closing the streets. On their streets, you close to turning the world against those who fight. The restriction of non-retardation of traffic effectively abolishes the right to protest, to claim claims. Is it possible to limit the protest, for example, to the Ministry of Labour, when it abolishes employment and insurance rights, to break wages and pensions, to establish part-time work and part-life, or to PPC, when it cuts the current of the unemployed, the poor? It is foreseen that the organiser should make known his intention to protest, place, time, number, duration of concentration, route, all its elements, and in particular its purpose for which the Police or the Port Authority will decide. If the purpose does not like it, it will not be approved. The bill makes the organiser responsible for any damage. He'll be in court for years to prove he's not responsible. The government thus strengthens the provocators, social automation. You are concerned by the dynamics, the aggregation of wider powers in PAME, the confidence shown by workers in the class movement, the abstraction in the social society and the powers of government and employers' union. This movement you want to strike, and with what you say about the good organization and care of its events, because that questions the rotten, barbaric system you serve, this opposes your policy, stands against the employer, and is struggling for the modern needs for the abolition of exploitation. This movement frightens you because it reveals the dictatorship of capital, shows the path of liberation. Many members of this movement are fired by the employer and the state because they are considered enemies or are in justice for the anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist struggles, such as the thirty-five presidents of federations and trade unions, PAME officials who have just recently been relieved, the two students for the Truman statue and many other fighters who claim. The history of the movement is filled with savage suppression operations of the urban state, mass militant gatherings with dead and injured, especially during periods of racing development. Your design was other than repression. We remind you of the Minister of New Democracy, Laskaris, who wanted to abolish the struggle of order. He made Law 330 with great suppression of that period's movement, with redundancies of pioneer workers. Fifteen thousand redundancies within a short period of time took place then. The movement, however, abolished him and blackly wrote the government of this period and him in history.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u300	I shall conclude, Madam President. The working class, the popular layers, which are crushed by the dictatorship of the monopolies have an obligation and a right to stand against poverty, impoverishment, crises and wars of this rotten and barbaric system, are entitled to fight for their own power and economy, which will satisfy modern needs. This development is objective. Sooner or later, with many or few sacrifices, no one can restrict it, ban it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Communist Party of Greece has tabled a request for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1 to 14, as well as on Article 19 of the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Public outdoor meetings and other provisions". Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA for six minutes. Please stay in your time as long as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill on the core of democracy. We are discussing the democratic and constitutionally regulated right of assembly and assembly. The government brought a bill and the genuine imprint of its will appeared in the initial deposit of the bill, where the will showed that it is a bill, which actually brings provisions of the 1971 Act and is its intervention in respect of the part of the demonstrations, mobilisations. He found great unconstitutionality in his provisions. This has been demonstrated throughout the debate in both committees and in plenary today. We have tabled an application for unconstitutionality in specific provisions concerning the specific nature and a number of other provisions. You were forced under the pressure of Anti-Population to get some things back, but the essence of the bill is in the direction of anti-democratic. And I think that this attitude and position have been deeply hypocritical and it is hypocritical because today a number of your MPs and officials in the debate that is taking place in the House and in plenary say: "See the JRC, guards its mobilisations. So we must, because all the others are trade unions or political parties that are protesting, protesting, mobilising, you cannot safeguard them, so that public order and security are persecuted." We are telling you that it is deeply hypocritical, because even if there was a guarantee in this Chamber today even from outside, from those who are active, whether the GFCM or independent bodies, that in the context of the mobilisations they will ensure that the public order is not shattered, I am sure you would not go back to tabling a bill. Because it really is not your ideological core, you do not want the gatherings, you do not want the mobilizations, because you do not want the voices of reaction, you do not want there to be a collective movement reaction to your policies. That is the essence of your policy. I have so far known that you are patriots and appear to be very clear about the handling of the Prespecies Agreement and the Macedonian one. Today I see that you're being robbed and dead. You come after each other the New Democracy MPs talk about Marfin's dead, as if all the rest of us do not share the human suffering of this tragedy. After all, you have operated, Minister, in this situation, you have had to catch and punish people, moral or natural perpetrators of this murder. Splendid glorious field to do it even now! You cannot, however, be rid of all the dead and especially of such forms of peaceful events, as was this great gathering of that time against the memorial that took place and mobilised thousands of people in the center of Athens. If, unfortunately, the well-known "blacks" or anything else are invaded in these events, this is at the discretion of the Greek Police and the Ministry to be able to distinguish the day from the wheat. There is no and we cannot today level everything and say that we will suspend any mobilization, we will be against the demonstrations because we cannot control them. That is why we believe that our difference in approaching this issue is deeply ideological. But do you really think that this will prevent the unemployed, the retired, the youth, the free trader, the small and medium-sized businessman from protesting, from protesting about your class policy leading to recession and unemployment? I believe that you see what comes in the next period, you see the consequences of the economic policy you are implementing, you know that this world will actually react, it will go on the road to claim the right to life, its acquired rights, as far as work and its own life are concerned, and you are taking repressive, preventive measures in the direction of not letting them really - whoever they are and who they are, and I speak to you regardless of the whole range of our society - react and protest. At the same time that you are actually bringing immunity to bankers, you bring the peculiarity to private individuals. This shows the classic sign of your policy along with a number of other economic policies in the direction of capital support and opposition to the interests of the people. Unfortunately, today - and I am truly saddened - how can the people's right of Constantine Karamanlis, even the liberal right of Constantine Mitsotakis relate to the extreme right-wing agenda, rhetoric and politics that the Government of New Democracy as a whole implements? With the same will I grieve for the people who have joined together for many years, the people of PASOK ever, who have spoken today of the Change Movement, who have had a common path and history in the fight of claims and struggles - were the people who supported the beginning of September 3 - and today I see that all this is being blocked and identified and dragged and the tail of a right-wing system, a right-wing regime leading things to authoritarianism and repression. I appreciate and believe that this law will not in practice pass, it will not go any further, because the people will cancel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u303	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Mrs. SYRIZA has the floor for six minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, many times the Head of Government, Mr Mitsotakis, has expressed itself either from the position of counter-population or from the position of Prime Minister with supposed frustration and indignation over the concentrations and demonstrations which prevent, as he said, the flow of life of pedestrians and cars in the centre of the capital. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Each of us knows that when protests are taking place in the centre of the major cities, traffic regulations are already being imposed. Many times the passers are indignant because otherwise they planned their day and are evolving. Does that automatically mean abuse of the right to protest? If abuse occurs, is the citizen's right to go through the same space, or is it ultimately two equal freedoms which must be safeguarded and protected equally? If you had otherwise structured the major cities and transport within them, all of you who have ruled for decades in this country, that is, if there were enough public space - which is also a basic right for all citizens - would not be at all one of the arguments you are putting forward today. We believe that there is no need to regulate the conflict between the two above-mentioned freedoms, because the limits of the balance between them are already set by our Constitution in Article 11, which provides for a restriction of the right of assembly only for reasons of public security or a serious disturbance to socio-economic life. The Hellenic Republic, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is a liberal democracy, a democracy that takes care of the freedoms of its citizens in a non-discriminatory manner, that is, firstly, to ensure and then prevent abuse of them. The draft law, however, overthrows this fundamental balance, promotes a freedom towards another. In our democracy, however, and in our Constitution, freedoms are equal, there is no precedent for any constitutional freedom, only in the face of the highest good that is the protection of human life. Preventive control and much more the preventive ban on outdoor meetings, which you are proposing, are directly against Article 11 of the Constitution, against the basic right of all citizens to express their popular protest and discontent. With the proposed provisions we are faced with the impossibility of defending the citizen of our Constitution and our constitution, because very simply an abstract government can ban a demonstration which, however, will be against its anti-constitutional actions that are destroying democracy. In other words, an authoritarian government - whatever exists or may exist in the future - can forbid the criticism of which is being perpetrated and will continue to be exercised by mass demonstrations and even extremely peaceful ones. With this bill, the New Democracy Government takes responsibility for the peaceful conduct of a demonstration to the organizers, instead of imposing effective protection of the demonstration by means of a tool, the Police Corps, which is responsible for it. This is the case, of course, because the New Democracy wants to make any live protests that challenge the government itself, its choices and the great interests that the government serves. You want to close their homes citizens for their supposed safety and first with their naive consent. But the legislation we need in our country cannot be repressive. Above all, it must allow the free exercise of fundamental individual and social collective freedoms by every citizen and it must be left to observe order and legality in the careful and systematic monitoring of outdoor meetings and demonstrations. What the whole political spectrum needs to work for is not the repression, but the safeguarding of demonstrations in order to prevent perhaps provocative diversions. Unfortunately for our Greece, there is in your mind an integrated plan to reduce the fundamental freedoms of our liberal democracy. You have repeatedly targeted labour rights, and now you are aiming for freedom of expression to such an extent that you are seeking to touch even the muscular freedoms of mind or of the will of the citizens themselves. When our Constitution in its most touching and touching article, Article 120, places the Constitution on the patriotism of the Greeks who are entitled and are obliged to resist by any means against anyone who attempts to destroy it by force, it means precisely, without preconditions and relativizations, that when a constitutional freedom such as this free assembly is limited, all Greek citizens are entitled and we must resist. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Minister, you must immediately withdraw this bill, further apologise to the Greek people, because you have attempted to lay the foundations for preventing events of spontaneous popular expression, discontent and resistance, in breach of the authoritarian article of the Constitution. But your pursuits will stay on paper. This is because even in the most authoritarian regimes nothing was able to keep popular indignation and sometimes anger. Finally, I would like to remind the Members and colleagues of the Change Movement who vote for this bill, the words of the late Andreas Papandreou: 'The people do not forget what it means right'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, too. Good evening. As Mrs Sakorafa said, we will go by 12 o'clock until Mr Polakis. Now, however, Mrs Olga Kefalayannis, Athens, from New Democracy, is in turn. I hope we're doing good, as it goes so far. Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important challenges facing modern democratic states is to secure public security and order. This is also a clear social demand, in which today's bill attempts to respond. It is also an explicit and clear election commitment from the New Democracy. It goes without saying that public security policies must ensure the smooth functioning of social and economic life, without, of course, affecting the exercise of constitutionally guaranteed individual, social and political rights. And that is unnecessarily over and out of every debate. Conversely, however, the exercise of the democratic right of assembly cannot hamper and systematically disrupt the functioning of the economy, the market, the free movement. It cannot affect the right to work. It cannot affect the right to property and property, which, of course, are constitutional under the protection of the State. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we must realise that the Constitution is not a precondition for the rights guaranteed in it. In this sense, therefore, the state must protect against abuse, in which the individual, social and political rights of all citizens are fully shielded. For this very reason, the Constitution in Article 11(2) places the close scope for regulating the exercise of the right of assembly in a public area. With this in mind, the current government is coming to cover institutional gaps, placing order on an issue that has been afflicting Greek citizens and especially the citizens of the capital for many years. There are countless times when we have seen Athens diagnosed, vandalized, devastated by thousands of protests. We do not, of course, need to, because we all have memory, to revert to severe events of the past that cost property and above all human lives. This legislative effort comes just to put a brake on the hostage of the major cities and the city of Athens, a stop to the suffering of the inhabitants, workers, entrepreneurs, visitors from generally small groups of demonstrators who systematically and often intentionally create social discomfort, paralyzing the centre of the capital in hours. Athens has been retested by numerous gatherings in the last few years. It is also tested by the economic consequences of the pandemic. We have to protect her, not to enter again in the vortex of desertification. The capital cannot again go through a second nightmare period of uncontrolled demonstrations, conflicts, disasters, ghettoisation. ‘Protection’ means specific measures adopted by the government's draft law. The obligation to make timely announcements, like the spatial and other restrictions which are always introduced with the necessary institutional guarantees, is something new for our country, but not for the most favoured European countries. The establishment of roles, such as the organisation of the meeting and the Ombudsman of the Security Councils, serve as necessary for the smooth conduct of a protest between organisers and state. It is a measure that will practically work towards reducing the use of repressive measures, encouraging the democratic building of confidence relations between the state and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is moving quickly and clearly in the field of security without anachronism, in the patterns of modern democracies in Europe. For a European rule of law, public security is a prerequisite for the exercise of human rights, for growth and prosperity. The sense of insecurity of the citizen who cannot go to work, the businessman affected in difficult times or the visitor, must be reduced if we want to talk about an effective state. It needs temper, vigilance and courage to modernise the state and institutions. Above all, however, the maximum possible consensus is needed. The opposition must assume its responsibilities. With the exception of the forces of anachronism defined by the post-political clashes and standing in the face of any modernist policy, the others must stand at the same level as the needs of the social interest. We have historical responsibility for progressing quickly in the modernisation of the democratic institutions, always with social mention and in the light of the inviolable rights of the Greek citizen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u307	Thank you, too. You're a lady with all the letters capital. That's my time. We will remain in New Democracy and Mr. Athanasios Kavada from the beautiful Lefkada. You go by car on this island, don't get inconvenience. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President, for your kind words and advertising for my island. We're waiting for you all in Lefkada. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the bill we are discussing today is not a field of ideological controversy. It is an area in which logic and extreme irrationality are opposed. The right of assembly, the right of the citizen to protest and freely express his opinion is not called into question or put at risk. But rules on the organisation and context of the demonstrations are being laid down in order to avoid the extremities we have all seen in peaceful demonstrations. Just down here, there is still Marfin's burnt building, where three people, including my compatriot Emeidas Tsakalis from the Royal Lefkada, died not because of the demonstration organized on this particular day, but because there was a framework of lawlessness that allowed some to infiltrate the demonstration and to carry out this extreme act of violence that deprived the lives of three people. Does anyone think that we can continue to close our eyes to the phenomena of lawlessness that exploit gaps in the institutional framework and, above all, exploit the democratic right of other people to protest freely and peacefully? Does anyone think that 50 or 100 people can close down the center of Athens three times a day on average, according to the figures of the Trade Association, afflicting thousands of other people by causing traffic congestion and difficult problems for businesses and workers? That is why I said at the beginning of my speech that, based on the content of this bill, no kind of ideological or political confrontation arises. The only confrontation there is between logic and tolerance to practices that sustain lawlessness and afflict the ordinary citizen. I have indeed listened with very regrettable extremist attitudes which have led to the parallel legislative initiative of a elected democratic government with provisions of the junta. What the government does, ladies and gentlemen, is to give substance to Article 11 of the Constitution by linking it to an executive law. Article 11 of the Constitution in the first paragraph states that "Greeks have the right to meet quietly and without weapons." In the second paragraph of Article 11 of the Constitution, it states ‘Only in public outdoor meetings may be attended by the police, outdoor meetings may be prohibited by a reasoned decision of the police authority, in general, if, due to the imminent danger of public security in a certain area, there is a serious disturbance in socio-economic life as defined by the law.’ Since post-polluterism, an executive law that will lay down the regulatory framework had never been passed to implement Article 11 of the Constitution. This draft law creates a legislative framework which clearly provides for the exercise of the democratic right of assembly, the framework within which the demonstrations will be organised. How democratic is it that 50 or 100 people lead to paralysis of the center of Athens, to stop traffic, to trouble thousands of citizens, to prevent the movement of ambulances and fire-fighting vehicles? How democratic is it a small group of extreme elements to exploit a democratic demonstration of citizens to carry out acts of violence covered behind it? I would once again point out that extremist characterisations for pigs are not only unfair, they are also impatient. This is because in Article 16 of the bill it is stated explicitly that decrees of 1971 and 1972 are abolished for public meetings. We are referring, in other words, to decrees issued during the dictatorship, which are now being abolished. I also hear some criticism of the fact that a demonstration must be announced in advance. It is, however, a necessary treaty for the implementation of paragraph 2 of Article 11 of the Constitution, since it enables the police to examine whether the conditions of prohibition are met. And, of course, a precondition for the ban is the reasoned decision of the police that there are serious indications of the threat of public security and the city's normal life. There is also a possibility of bringing citizens to the Council of State within one day if a meeting is prohibited in advance. Positive, too, is the institution of the protest organiser who will cooperate with the mediator on the part of the authorities. By the way, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis, and the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou, because they dared to bring in a bill necessary for our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the divisive rhetoric no longer touches anyone. Those who insist on this rhetoric are only able to widen the distance that separates them from the vast majority of citizens. The country is now looking ahead. Society's already ahead. It has exceeded stereotypes of the past moving and operating in rational terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Emmanuel Synthrakis from the Communist Party of Greece, from the beautiful Heraklion, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. The Government's Protests Prohibition Bill puts the right to popular claim for blood rivers. It criminalizes thinking, conscience, questioning and fighting against the present system of barbarism and exploitation. From this point of view it is reputable, undemocratic, authoritarian and dangerous. That is why he has already fallen into the workers' consciousness. With this bill, you seek to terrorise and manipulate consciences, especially the new generation. You want to aim at preventive intimidation for those who stand up to the barbarity of capitalism. Identify those involved in gatherings, mobilisations, demonstrations as bodies of criminal activities. That is what the rapporteur of the New Democracy, like other speakers, said about the provocative correlations of the tragic deaths in Marfin, with the concentrations that took place at the time. We ask you, who will prevent popular anger in the face of the barbarity of your policy? Who blocked or whose permission was the millions of poor and impoverished who broke out in the streets of the United States on the occasion of the death of African-American Floyd? Who will prevent the hotel employee, the tourist worker, who is called on to live with 9 euros a day, the bio-patient professionals and farmers who are in bankruptcy, claim the fruits of their jobs, be able to live their families? For eight days the guides to tourist buses in Crete have been on strike. Why? Because the government, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Brutsis, who are "doing the Chinese", along with the two great-workers, stubbornly refuses to sign the same local collective labour contract that was in place last year. Not God with the stars, but for the self-evident. They protest boldly and lamely in front of Heraklion airport with any obstacles and strike mechanisms. Based on the bill, this strike mobilisation, both for purpose and at the time, is considered illegal. Yes or no? So, who does not see from one dance of billions for the few, for a handful of riches and on the other hand, the children faint from hunger? Who does not see the miracle of the cultivation of tourism leading to hundreds of thousands of seasonal workers in unemployment without even unemployment benefit, and in the same time in the last six years, the big-timers and agents have literally gathered their strengths? Over 120 billion euros. So whatever you plan to do, whatever repressive and ideological mechanisms you make, the river of popular wrath is your nightmare. It's the ghost who is deceiving day and night, in your sleep and in your wake, above your heads. Laugh if you think that with preventive intimidation the people will forget who and why they brought him to the edge of despair, poverty, daily stress of survival, the lack of access to medical care and education for their children, the uncertainty and insecurity of the new generation. You are appalled if you think you will intimidate the people you are forcing him to live in conditions of poverty and deprivation by rotating jobs, with contracts of a few days, suspension and redundancies, cuts and wages that are not enough for the people's family even for the week. Characters, PPC, water, loans, taxi. Incomprehensible list of obligations. But above all, you are not going to put the organized class trade union movement in the first place, nor are you going to put the communists in the forefront. The ban on demonstrations and what you are working, of course, has a lot of tail. One will not forget the action of the MATs against pensioners, farmers, from an old time when the booming of the tyres at the massive rallys and the strike demonstrations, the brutal slump of the rally against the visit of US Secretary of State Pompeo to Athens last October. This bill didn't come down. Nor is the measures against the enemy a mere prerogative of the extreme right-wing neoliberal government of the New Democracy that draws up criminal laws and regulations, as hypocritical and nerdly denounces SYRIZA. SYRIZA should respond to us because it did not abolish from 2015 to 2019 the June provisions on banning demonstrations which it is now invoking, because it did not abolish the terrorist, while on the contrary it extended it. Who is it that legislated the particular offence to participate in mobilisations against auctions? Who hit the anti-war gathering with the known events in the Truman statue, arresting students and charging them half the Criminal Code? Did he not proceed to a ban on protests, or did the MATs on SYRIZA plunging workers, strikers and young people under Truman's statue do so with progressive sensitivity? Who poured water into the mill of the lousy minority theory that afflicts them by placing them in the right of strike with the strikeable law? Aren't you the ones who voted white in the European Parliament on the report that recorded the protests? Was it not Mr Tsipras who broadly signed him in Sibio, Romania, together with other leaders of the European Union, in the anti-communist memorandum on the Iron Curtain and the equation of fascism with communism? So SYRIZA ruled four and a half years and his works and days are known. On this day the New Democracy is building. So this bill of New Democracy is much more serious. It forms the ideological background, targeting every radical progressive ideology and act from schools and universities to workplaces, where the work is really squeezing and drinking it. And, of course, to support this disgusting and sloppy propaganda, you are trying to recruit various willing, journalists, some media parrots, with stunned shows, reflecting the misery that, for the hardship of the world and the repetition of traders, it is because of the concentration and not your policy that has reached them on the brink of bankruptcy, leading millions of workers in bankruptcy. So you are shaking only on the idea of the popular question of this rotten system of exploitation of the urban state and the power of capital that you serve. That's radicalism, that's what you want to slander and criminalize, the fight of the people. You want to apply law and order by fire, to protect economic and political power and introduce these preventive war measures into effect, mainly with a view to slandering the struggles of the people. The mere fact that both the junta and the proper democratic provisions of this draft law meet on a single objective, in the suppression of the movement, shows that the state, regardless of a government, has absolutely no quarrel to retire anything that suits it to strike the popular movement. So, no matter how much manoeuvre you do, with any legislative improvements in this bill - an abortion, it is to throw ashes in the eyes of the people, to give everything to the Change Movement to vote for it. Most importantly, however, it confirms that his position is for garbage in fact. The people, then, will give their answer to a monstrous law. He's gonna throw him in a disposable basket. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr. Synergy. Next, Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides from New Democracy and Kosani with her crocodile, Vlast - if you haven't gone, it's an excellent place - and Velvet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with a rapid breakthrough in the Minutes I found that only on the first day over eighty times the words dictatorship, right-wing, fascism, with their various derivatives, have been heard in this Chamber. But seriously, is there even one citizen out there who believes that New Democracy is a hunger government, Mr. Mitsotakis fascist and Michael Chrysochoidis far-right? People laugh. But if it's not the faces, is it the law shallow? As mundane as the forecasts are in the legal classes of other civilized states, as long as common sense is poured out! Sophia Vultured you in the world’s liberal democracies to understand how much stricter the applicable framework is in them. But then why should the Opposition appeal to such an extreme phrase? Is it through? I wouldn't say so. It smells like naphthalene. It's practically impossible to convince anyone. Another one's the target. Opposition bets on our terror. The New Democracy traditionally carried such hesitations: they would tell us that. We were always afraid of the labels on the left, so that we did not do what the world was voting for and since we did not, at the end of the day it did not vote on us. On the subject, in the demonstrations and in the troubles, we reached the point that the householders told us that we had more quiet about SYRIZA. That makes sense. You can't rule and protest. I mean, it's because we saw that, too, but as long as you make it quieter. So I call you fascist so you don't do what the vast majority of citizens want. Because in this particular matter citizens are asking for this phenomenon to be brought into order. So you're sticking us with the label as a spell, so we don't have to apply our policy. But the Prime Minister told you on several occasions. This is over, it's past, it's a staining political reason. And he didn't just tell you, he did it, and he acted by Mr. Mitsotakis. It has removed you from fields that you have for years held titles of use, such as environmental, progressive and social agendas. That's why you're trying persistently, but unscrupulously to render him a so-called authoritarian profile. Friends and friends, I've got some bad news for you. We are not touched by the characterizations, as they do not touch society. They're handwriting. As long as you get caught up in a cheetah as much as we do in politics, that is, we will respond to the needs of the citizens. That's what this bill does. It sets out a clear and fair framework for the exercise of the constitutional right at the meeting to where the right of other fellow citizens to social and economic life is not disproportionately affected. In other words, what our Constitution itself provides for is that if you can demonstrate without blocking me the right to freedom of movement, access to services, economic activity, then that is what you have to do. But as far as the scope of the bill is concerned, there is a triviality in your criticism. The law attempts to regulate small mobilisations rather than large and massive ones. They are the first to unduly disrupt the daily lives of the citizens and not the second to be organised, coordinated and not raised. So when you say that the government is legislating in order to motivate social indignation, then you probably mean that it will not be too great. Two things happen: Or you're being deceived again or cheated again. After all, the regulation of the matter is our firm and pre-election commitment and therefore not some late invention. Furthermore, it is also a consistent left-wing position that incidents undermine the popular claim. Not rarely speaks of provocations, and it is true that the indignation caused by the unjust suffering of our fellow citizens is often wronged by the reasonable request of some social groups. But more specific criticism is even worse. He's criminalizing the right to assemble, you told us. Wrong. There's no such ban. But we are putting an end to exaggeration and arbitraryness. What else did you tell us? You told us that the bill introduces the organisational responsibility. However, objective responsibility refers to the status and guarantee function of a person. There is no need for any deed or omission to come to an end. However, the organisational meeting is not to blame without the other side, but only if it has violated more and more, following the legislative improvement, its restrictive obligations. It is therefore the explicit omissions of the organiser that produce these legal consequences at its expense rather than some general and abstract, objective responsibility. So it makes sense for him to bear the burden of proof in keeping with the provisions of the law, since he alone can only know what obligations he has fulfilled and how this is proved. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time at last to keep up with evolution, to stop living with the ghosts of the past. Let's be honest. In the era of broadband, multimedia and networks, no government is afraid of televised. So abandon the extreme and divisional expression that has tired society if you want to exercise a convincing and pressuristic opposition. Finally, the bill achieves a realistic balance in conflicting rights and justifies self-evident. That's why he gets overwhelming acceptance. "To sanctify your hand" the citizens tell us. For these reasons, I am unreservedly voting in favour of the bill and I propose that you do the same. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u313	Thank you very much, Mr Constantinidis. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios, Member of SYRIZA from the beautiful Dodecanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to address the SYRIZA colleagues and ask them this. Did you comrades and comrades, amazes us of this bill that puts plaster on the protests and popular mobilizations brought by New Democracy? Really, does it surprise us? No, of course not. It is the bill of a tough right-wing government, a government that does not allow citizens to protest, a government that will violate the Constitution in its knowledge to enforce its agenda. It's perfectly normal. They're preparing for the worst. They cleanse the scenery, terrorizing the citizens, because they know that soon the fruits of their politicians will bring reactions. That's her, that's her, and the right doesn't change. The truth is, however, that I am annoyed by the defence and much more, by the implementation of the plans by its new-born defenders who want to dress the right with a progressive linen. What is the New Democracy plan that has been revealed in recent days? On the one hand, the manipulation of the media so as not to go through anything towards society, to control everything. That's how this well-cooked Pecha list came, where it looks even after cooking how much they want to control the media. The second, Mr Chrysochoidis' bill: the blockade of demonstrations, the intimidation of citizens and reasoning. And the third, change of agenda: complication. Why do they want to tell us about the complication to throw mud? Because they want to hide the real problems that touch society, Mr Colleague, which you said 'what touches society'. I will tell you what touches society, what the real problems of the small and medium-sized enterprises that are closing today, which are putting padlocks in despair, which have no real help from the government. The only thing that gives them is loans with bank criteria that most of the businesses are not going to get and no subsidy. Nothing. If you can't be enough for the bank, then you die. And we have a series of new red loans, because these companies will no longer be able to withstand. It is the problems of workers who are mocking them, especially of seasonal workers. You know that those who have more than eighty unemployment figures will not receive a subsidy. Isn't that right, Dionyssis? They will not receive the 400 euro grant, they will not be able to enter the 'ERGAN'. The platform opens and closes, but the workers do not enter the "ERGANI". For you, instead of subsidising the job, have been subsidising the job suspension. And what else are the problems of society? The farmers, who you have not dared to mention, have not even mentioned them. Once you say to the farmers a measure to help them, who are throwing their production into the trash today, because it cannot be absorbed! Of all these, therefore, there is a social upheaval, a social dissatisfaction with policies, which will not be judged and will not be judged in the autumn. And what do you say to all of these, the entrepreneurs, the workers, the farmers? "We'll arrest you if you go down to the protest. We'll take you out financially if you dare organise. Don't talk. Sit at your house." Because you establish the criminal and civil liability for the organiser. And if you ask, you're responsible for the organizers even in case of a provocation. Really, Mr. Chrysochoid, did you, I imagine, participated in demonstrations as a student, don't you know that means provocation? Didn't you experience the provocation in your skin? Don't you know what a steadfast paratrooper means to give rise to the dissolution of demonstrations? Haven't you seen this picture from enikos.gr when you were Minister of Police, he says, with political enclosure, they were throwing objects next to the police forces of ELAS? Indeed, he said at the time - and I am tabling it in the Minutes - that the representative of the police is making the SAD in 2012. What happened to this SAD? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nektarios Santorinios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was a provocacia set up, and Marfin of a criminal paratrooper you didn't arrest anyone when you were Minister! This para-state wanted to unleash one of the most massive, peaceful demonstrations against the memorial that you had not read. And tell me, really, would you send GSEE and ADEDY to the courts today instead of sending these real criminals to court that day? Because that's what you would do with that law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This bill will be abolished on the road by farmers on the blocks, by workers who lose their jobs, by traders who see their shops shut down because of your policy and not by protests. The progressive forces of the place will be against your inspirational settings. The progressive forces of the place are next to those who see your policies targeting them and who tell them to sit at their houses silent. This bill clearly highlights right-wing differences with the progressive world. We'll be on the right side of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much. Mr. Ioannis Economou from New Democracy and the beautiful Phytiotida.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today in its political dimension enables us to measure ourselves with a series of 'child disease' of post-population and, at the same time, to tackle a number of issues with realism and responsibility, some of which in their category are unique Greek paradoxes, I would say. The core of the opposition position - the position of the previous speaker was very characteristic, but also of others from the opposition - for this draft law is clear that it seeks a division outside the subject, completely out of the question. Some insist monotonously to shade with the ghost of dictatorship forty-five years after the restoration of democracy. Do you really think this tactic, this strategy, this rhetoric can have the slightest trace of seriousness? Do you really think the Hellenic Republic of 2020 is a country that lives in an institutional precarious environment? Ladies and gentlemen, a democracy, a country that elects its last three leaders, namely the regulator of the civil society, with a large majority, is not a country that lives in an institutional precarious environment. A democracy in which many times in the past - and fortunately in the very recent past - the institutions have worked as a counterweight to prevent the Constitution from being circumvented in order to manipulate critical public life variables for the sake of serving the interests of the shop is not a country that can be described as authoritarian or that lives in an institutional precarious situation. A democracy, the government of which, with its fresh popular sovereignty, applies exactly what was voted on - so I did not expect you to have any surprise, you should have read our election programme - it is not a country that is sudden and whose government decides and legislates authoritarianly. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously not the case. The problem is that a large part of the political world is stuck many decades ago. Imagine living in other times, many decades ago. At the same time, this prevents her from realising what the risks are, what the issues are, and what the problem this bill comes up with. This problem has two basic components. His first is pragmatic. It has to do with the need for proportionality between the protest and the way in which it expresses this protest. Evidently the right to protest and claim is sacred. Our Constitution highlights it, protects it, contains it and even has it too high. One thing, however, is protest and one thing is the way to protest. And in the shadow of a series of events that have taken place in this country, in this place in the past, ladies and gentlemen, as it is - I do not know where to begin - the suffering of thousands of people at times at the postures of public transport, or within their IX, the disasters of public and private property, the lost cigarettes, the victims, and much more so the dead, requires all of us to have greater restraint when we talk about these things and, above all, we must find ways to determine a more proportionate way like the one I said above. And can I also say something to you, ladies and gentlemen, on the left? If you had been relieved of dogmatism, of hypocrisy - because it is also hypocrisy among the others, the squabbling of the dictatorship and the junta - if you thought clearly, you would - you may not see it - that most of the times, not to say most of the time, the way in which a protest or a claim is evolving is going wrong, not to say that it is completely canceling the context and the challenge of the claim. No one's dealing with this. So if you really cared about the size, prestige, the intervention at the end, the end of the movement processes, you would also be involved in a discussion of a way, a framework that would ensure and highlight them even more. The fact that you do not do this shows how much distance and dimension you are from the real demands of the life of modern civil society, the people who claim and wait for the political world. The second dimension of the problem, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is more philosophical. It is about the fact that no democracy can function without rules and limits. And, unfortunately, in a number of behaviours in Greek society, these limits do not exist in Greece. And there are no - and this is dangerous - why these behaviours are based on a culture of protest which it considers to be all allowed. Unfortunately, this culture has crossed horizontally many pieces of Greek society for years. Remember that in Halkidiki and Keratea, for example, classic bishops went together, as well as priests and priests who blessed the molotovs. See, at times when fans, team fans think their teams are wrong, they take over - fans who are supposedly antisystemic, aren't they? - the public space - by hand with the inflatable owners, who are motivated by these mobilizations. In the squares of the indignant right-wing and not only - there were others with him - they lightly ejected the heart into incredible complaints about Greek politicians, even for Parliament itself. In 2008, after the tragic murder of Gregopoulou and for a long time still students, many times with their professors, stoned police departments. All I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, are parts of a great picture based on this culture of protest without limits which, in my view, is a problem, because it is neither culture nor right-wing nor left-wing. It is a culture of zero that constitutes a challenge and a threat to democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally believe that our democracy today is so strong and mature, so that the debate on these limits that I have previously said is not a taboo and is not in danger of being designated by definition as a fascist, anyone who raises these kinds of issues. The bill we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, is a very important step in this direction. We support it and vote fully in favour of what it comes to, but also what symbolism it carries with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Mrs Diamanto Manolakos is now called to Stepma by the Communist Party of Greece and Piraeus with his National!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u318	Following the law on limiting the right to strike, initiated by SYRIZA and continued by New Democracy, the current government with this monstrous regime is now coming to prevent and criminalise further forms of struggle, that of demonstrations. You say this is democracy. For us is your democracy, because it does not actually come to cover the legal void, as the government claims, since we had a hunter of fighters in all governments, after lawsuits from the police or pupils against students or even a suede industry from employers' associations in the Shipbuilding Zone, in order to make their struggle and claim for health and safety measures, so that they do not come back crippled by the horrors of terror in their homes, as well as by collective agreements. Of course, we had state repression and violence from all the bourgeois governments. Let us remember state repression even against retired people, teachers, workers, students, farmers and others, as our parliamentary representative reminded us. What is it, however, that worries you, scares you and you want to take a step further in the direction of upgrading the criminalisation and repression of the workers' struggles? The fact is that many major mobilizations have taken place in the period of the memoranda. However, many estimates exist today, they say that the period that will follow will be even worse for the people and deeper the capitalist economic crisis, even than for the memorandum period. With this, then, monstrosity is taking preventive measures by criminalising not just the popular protest, but what we fear most, namely the questioning and action against this inhuman, barbaric system of cruel exploitation, which brings poverty, unemployment, suffering, oppression, misery and misery, inherent in capitalism. You fear that the challenge will turn into a conscious and decisive action of popular masses for the break and overthrow of this rot. So you take preventive measures by criminalising mood, thinking, before it even turns into action. Even with the suspicion that concentrations and demonstrations will aim to conflict with this rotten system and fight massively to break and overthrow it, you will automatically take measures to ban demonstrations. This is precisely the content and heart of the bill, which is contained in Article 19, after setting the target of any radical, progressive ideology and act. You are therefore planning to set up a Directorate for Prevention of Violence, with the aim of preventing various forms of violence, such as radicalisation, ideology of violence and violent extremism, domestic violence, etc., as you say. Conscientious, that is, radicalism is smuggling with adequate forms of violence, such as domestic, intra-school violence, etc. You aim to manipulate consciences, especially youth, by creating the retsin that participation in concentrations, mobilisations, demonstrations are a matrix of crime. I mean, you incriminate the fight, the one that raises the man, because he fights for a better, qualitatively superior social system. That is why the various provocators and mechanisms, which are never caught, are in direct contact with the state and with the parastate. Is it accidental that for ten years with New Democracy - PASOK and SYRIZA and now New Democracy, Marfin's killers, although there were cameras and descriptions, have never been caught? Furthermore, the bill has provocative constraints, beyond even those placed in the urban system. It is reported that the concentration should not impede circulation. Is that possible? If it's a few thousand, where are they going? Where will farmers protest? In their fields? The miners in the Zone will protest from every carnival in Perama, Salamis or Keracini? It is also stated that the blockade of access to public services, such as a Ministry, is prohibited. In the first place, mergers are prohibited. So does this mean that a gathering outside the Ministry of Shipping is forbidden for an accident at work on board a ship or a shipyard with a dead ship, which unfortunately has been a long time due to the lack of protection measures? So, for each employer crime, no protest is allowed? A fortified river will become, choking your reactionary repressive laws. You see, then, that it is fair to condemn this monastery massively by the trade unions and the workers' organizations and by calling for it to be withdrawn. Because the struggles are not coming into the plaster, and the attempt to suffocate the people will not pass. Be sure of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u319	Thank you very much, Mrs Manolakou. We continue with the Communist Party of Greece and Mr Nikolaos Papastasis from Itoolakarnania.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u320	Yesterday, a year has passed since the change of guard at the wheel of urban governance, with the Government of the New Democracy taking the anointing of the bourgeois order. This government took the election result of those days as a green light to unfold a hard pogrom of anti-grass measures and capitalist restructurings. In the dark of its current term of office, an anti-grass bill is passed every three days. A total of more than eighty-five laws were passed, and today they expect another ten bills to be passed in the next few days. Its destructive work is truly rich: Anti-Government overthrows, privatisations, opening up new areas of profitability with tax exemptions and provocative privileges of all kinds in capital, reactionary changes in education, health, justice, total immunization of the urban state by completing and reactionary constitutional changes and, of course, trying to put the working people's movement on the plaster, with new restrictions on the right to strike. All of this is the deposit of today's bill. The descriptions for this have been left behind: Accumulated, abortion, fungus, and much more. Let us keep and say that today's bill just forbids protests. The aim and purpose of this policy is one: to harass, to force violently, to deprive all those who are already on the knees of this anti-popular policy. The use of raw force for these pursuits is now necessary. That's exactly what you do, gentlemen of the government, with this bill. You are giving the police and the repressive mechanisms the legislative framework to prolong against the people's movement. In order to put the struggles of workers and the people on the plaster, you use the police mechanism with even greater intensity as a tool. For the Government of New Democracy, the reduction of violence, the repressive mechanisms to guarantee its power toward workers reveals the false words he has used, those with which he has deceived the people, when he has advertised the so-called quality of urban democracy. It is clear that what is happening today is a continuation of the government's overall repressive framework, which is contained in the concept of law and order. It is a very disastrous context for the people. Through this the government passed the abolition of university asylum, the upgrading of special repressive forces, the attacks on large marches of the popular movement, the experimental implementation of the violation of the people's rights, as well as the tests of new repressive equipment, modern enclaves, the blow of youth in the squares. Already train the pictureant Cheerios to make sure that each protester is unpacked. The government in the course of the violent manipulation of the trade union movement found ready ground, stepped on the repressive measures already planned, but did not complete the former governments of the New Democracy, the PASOK - Change Movement and SYRIZA. It is very recent in March 2019, when all of you together, enthusiasts, signed the Athens Declaration on Racism. Today, the messages of those texts that you exhumed at the time are here and let SYRIZA leave the tears for the consequences of the bill. It's crocodile. The philosophy of today's bill is not much different from the one that turned the resistance to the auctioning of the people's house, which SYRIZA voted for, along with the reduction of the strike right to the primary unions, in the context of the assessments of the third memorandum. You then signed the creation of a mechanism for mobbing, scaffolding and repression. This, of course, which the SYRIZA government has not been able to act on at the time, is undertaking to promote with its bill today the New Democracy Government. Hand-hand go. However, these measures do not constitute Greek innovation. They are guidelines for the general policy of the European Union. In the form of this policy, you are all very much involved in it. You have a common goal, which is no longer the suppression of the working class, regardless of the country. The class labour movement and communism are found in the permanent aim of the "Luxembourg alliance". Having to argue about what will be the most consistent expression of this Euro-Union anti-grassroots policy against workers, also demonstrates your deep concern at the dynamics of our country's labour movement, the fighting of our youth, the anti-imperialist movement of our people. This is exactly the parameter that haunts your every moment. Today's bill, even if you don't withdraw it, you can be sure that it stays on paper. There's the power, but there's the strength that can cancel it. It worked in the past. It'll work today. He had already deactivated the junta’s legislative abortion in practice. That'll do with yours. People's struggle will once again be the catalyst that will put brakes on the plans of the bourgeoisie, which your government has loyally in here, but also on other urban parties, serve and promote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u321	Thank you very much, Mr Papastasis. Gianniotissa, from SYRIZA, Mr. Merope Jufi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since this morning we have been discussing a draft law on public meetings, but there is no doubt that, through its regulations, it is actually attempting to break down the constitutional right of assembly under Article 11 of the Constitution. This is reflected in the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, the démarche of the Union of Lawyers' Associations, even from the position of the Union of Prosecutors of Greece. Unfortunately, for many years the New Democracy Government has brought us back decades to vote, but at the same time it also makes a coup d'état by introducing provisions of a manifestly unconstitutional nature. The draft law is, in many cases, a comprehension of the version of the 1971 Hunting Ordinance and that does not honor anyone. Suffice a simple comparison for those who continue to deny the truth. Democracy was due, even fifty years later, to get away from the junta in matters of public order. If urban democracy cannot establish or is unable to bring about an alternative legal culture than democracy, then we have a very serious problem. The right, therefore, to the demonstration, the right to assembly, is guaranteed both in Article 11 of the Greek Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights and it is the right of individuals to freely define the place, time, type, content of the demonstration and the special way of expressing its evenings during it. This freedom means the right of everyone to participate in a demonstration without adverse consequences. It follows from the constitutional text itself that it is not understood as prior administrative authorisation to take place a demonstration, a public outdoor meeting. It is pointed out that the Constitution does not distinguish between spontaneous and non-public meetings. And therefore, spontaneous public meetings are placed under the cover of the Constitution. Unfortunately, with the present unconstitutional and anachronistic bill, spontaneous events are only allowed under conditions, that is, they are, in principle, forbidden. And the police are given power to decide whether to allow them to take place, whether to impose restrictions, whether to dismantle them. The dissolution provides that the police may use all legal, appropriate, necessary and proportionate means for the circumstances. At what juncture is this choice of the government, of weakening the right of citizens to protest by circumventing the Constitution? It comes at this socio-economic juncture, at a difficult time of serious health risks, serious economic and social reclassifications and a derelict economic recession. Of course, the government with these regulations is compiled with the most extreme neoliberal policies of our times, when there is global mobilisation against systemic, racial, economic and social racism, when the pandemic has highlighted the need for a democratic model of governance that ensures the individual and social rights of citizens and that operates for the common good and not profit. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek and Greek women are children of Antigone. Resistance to injustice and power is both Greek and rusty marbles. So you can be sure that the resistance will be the horizon of the next period. In addition, the ban on demonstrations will also be the most appropriate opportunity for organising them. Every demonstration from now on will have its particular object, but at the same time the requirement for the abolition of the law. The new generation will see to it that, together with the right to work, education and health, it will also require the right to public protest. Let's be serious. It was said by many. No demonstration can be banned when people are determined to protest. No introduction by law of a responsible, no police provision, no bi-collaborative argument will be possible to prevent angered, yellow vests, the'sardella movement' of Italy, the students and students of Chile, the mass movement against social discrimination in the United States of America. If the demonstrations were a matter of bans, there would have been no demonstrations either in the occupied Palestinian territories, nor in South Africa of apartheid, or in Athens of 1973. Of course Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Mitsotakis also know that, but they are interested in setting up a separating line that will place themselves on the side of legality and identify the Left with violence, which many speakers have tried today to do from New Democracy and, of course, from the Greek Solution. Because we are not yesterday, I would remind you here that in the years of post-multi-population on Greek democracy in forbidden marches of the Polytechnic of New Democracy, through police violence, there were other young people who lost their lives, such as Komis and Kanellopoulou. Of course, we do not accept the charge of Marfin's victims on the left. It's a sorrow. It is Mr Chrysochide's duty that he has now and for many years been responsible for this crime so that he can find justice. Of course, there is no surprise, because the New Democracy has already legislated for a school of subjugation by abolishing university asylum, restoring abortions and reducing conduct, after hoping that, together with the church of blind faith and state repression, it can reduce citizens to the role of voter or fan. There is also something even more interesting, a model element, the creation of a Directorate for Prevention of Violence. It reminds us of other times and perhaps now better, with more advanced technology, where monitoring and control will rise to new levels of excellence. However, world protests and uprisings did not stop even at the time of pandemic. Black Lives Matter is the most important form against racism and police violence. The destruction of hope results, particularly in the new generation, in disobedience that in this case is transformed by individual moral practice into collective liberation practice. Democracy will always win, especially when people need it and invoke it. The new generation will resist and brontovoke the Kazantzakio: "We do not hope for you. We're not afraid of you. We are free and will fight for a better future no matter what you legislate." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. Mrs Theanos Fotio from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who are in a hurry to vote on this bill today are well aware that it will be abolished, because this law violates one of the oldest constitutional rights of Greek and Greek citizens, the right to a free meeting, as the Association of Prosecutors has said. The free assembly, the rally, the protest, is from the recommendation of the Greek free state the means of ordinary people to influence political developments, to claim, to call their right. Reactive laws were abolished by syllable syllables. The reactionary law of George Rally for universities was abolished and the privatization of higher education was prevented by the revision of Article 16, which was attempted in 2007 by PASOK and New Democracy. By rallying for two months, Minister, every Thursday that drowned in tons of tear gas, PASOK was persuaded and finally did not consent to the revision of Article 16 in 2007. Sexually, the attempt to limit the freedom of the protest itself just after the fall of the junta stopped. By contributory workers and employees of this country prevented the delivery of social security to private individuals. You can vote for the bill. You have the necessary majority. You also have the support of KINAL, despite the completely different opinion of many colleagues on its lines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u325	Change movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u326	Really, until when will colleagues define your policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u327	Have you ever disagreed with your party, ma'am?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u328	Ladies and gentlemen of the Movement of Change, I ask you directly: until when will the remnants of PASOK's improper memory of co-operation with New Democracy be determined in the period 2012-2015, which "slashed" the backbone of Greek social democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u329	The Burnts don't forget them, Miss Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u330	Please do not interrupt, Mrs. Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u331	Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning - and I see some of you - your party cannot vote for the abortion, what are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u332	Have you ever disagreed with your party, ma'am, to address others?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u333	Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, you can vote for the Chrysochide bill. It will be canceled with contributors and will certainly be one of the first laws to be abolished by tomorrow's progressive government if this law still applies until it is replaced by the people's vote. The supposed improvements you brought do not guarantee anything. Already, your prosecutors have stated that they will not agree to make them the enforcement bodies. It seems that apart from the citizens, you will find against you and the judiciary, most of the judges, who insist on the mission laid down in the Constitution. You insist on institutionalizing police arbitrary. You insist on changing the men and women of the Security Corps from defenders of citizens' freedom and security, as they want the Constitution and the laws, to bodies of government authoritarianism. This will perhaps go through this Chamber, but it will not go outside, where citizens are concerned and struggling, the new generation, the workers, the pensioners. As you know, the bill is not limited to subjecting a fundamental citizen's right to police jurisdiction. It is re-launching after many decades, with Article 19, the monitoring of citizens' opinion. You know, obviously, that the words radicalism, radical, radical, have a firm place in Greek political history since the mid-19th century. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I cannot go on like this if Members of the Change Movement harass our own Members. I need to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u334	Nobody harassed. Keep going, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u335	So I say again: clearly, that the words radicalism, radical radicalism, radical, have a firm place in Greek political history since the mid-19th century. Parts of different ideological colours use them. It is a word that all parties in Greece used. It appears in 1848 with the Radical Party, an Ionian party, liberal and democratic. We, SYRIZA, are the Radical Left coalition. The KIC newspaper is called "RIZOPASTI".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u336	And the E.R.A.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u337	The old name of your current party, Mr. Chrysochoidis, was named EPE, which was given by the founder of the New Democracy party, Konstantinos Karamanlis. As you know, ERA means a National Radical Union. So it contained the word radical. Beyond the permission of political history, you want to build a service that controls the minds of the citizens, that is to say, to return to the dark decades until the fall of the junta. Do you really think you can do this? I don't think you believe it. You will fail, and we will certainly contribute. We are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Fotio. Mr Kastanides has asked for the floor for a minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u339	I didn't say anything personal about Mr. Castanides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u341	I avoid, Mr President, having a personal debate. Mrs. Fotou earlier, at the edge of her speech, said that she also sees among the classrooms of the Change Movement people who have expressed strong reservations about the bill, but have you wondered, until when will they be dragged from those who worked with the Right? I'm answering a question. Has Mrs. Fotio ever disagreed with her party? Second, Mrs. Fotio, I never worked with the Right. You guys worked with the far right. I never personally. Therefore, you will be careful when you address your colleagues, because there are no others, two are present. And because I don't want to remind you of historical routes, I'm staying here. I hope you've understood your slip.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u343	It is now the turn of your party's parliamentary representative. He can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I ask you to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u345	You won't keep it for a minute. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u346	First of all, Mr Castanides, I did not mean you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u347	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u348	First of all, Mr Castagnides, as I tell you. I didn't mean you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u349	Then I will ask for the floor on personal grounds. Two of us are here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u350	I said, until when did this punctual memory work? I didn't say you did it. That's what I said, and you can find it in the Minutes. Until when will this unscrupulous collaboration of the PASOK and the New Democracy come back, which has slashed the backbone of the Greek social democracy? And I must say that on this subject, Mrs Gennimata said specific things here and we honoured her for what she said. I don't understand why you're upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u351	Good. Mr. Castanides will see the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u353	Ms. Giannakopoulou, soon you'll be on your way to Step and you can tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u354	Yes, but obviously, Mr President, we cannot have two measures and two weights.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u355	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u356	That is why Mrs Fotou cannot speak, say that she is not talking about Mr Kastanidis, so for us and that we cannot at least answer. I'll have a word. Policy lessons, history lessons, moral lessons the Change Movement and PASOK from SYRIZA are not going to get. First apologise for confronting Mr. Kammenos and the extreme right, and then come, Mrs. Fotius, to speak in the Change Movement!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u357	No, don't go on, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Please! Mr. Janakopoulos, come to Stepma to calm the spirits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u358	Be very careful... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u359	Ms. Giannakopoulou, don't embarrass me! Please. Please. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Janakopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a comment on what was said a moment ago. No problem would there have been, fellow Members, if you had taken a purely democratic and progressive position, nor would we have opened this debate again if you had taken a purely progressive position in relation to this abominable bill, which as a Change Movement, as PASOK you are supporting and for which you are interacting with Mr Chrysochidis, would you be able to collectively be what you were forming from 2011 to 2015, i.e. "heavy" of the Neutral Republic. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And as far as the charges concerning Kammenos, Mrs Giannakopoulou, you were in the same government as Mr Vorides, Mr Samaras and Mr Karatzafiris. So let go of these.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u361	Do you prefer Kammenos to Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u362	Mr. Levane, you're one of the calm ones. Let him talk. Calm down and cool. Go on, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u363	Now let's go to the law. In the old liberal concept, ladies and gentlemen, the state is the instrument for limiting the freedom that every man possesses by his nature. With the laws, with the regulations, this freedom is restricted by law. But what is the limit of these restrictions? The rights that the law itself defines their scope. In this sense, the right is - if you want - a limit to the State restriction of freedom, an excess or remnant of natural freedom that sets the limit to State interference in state regulation. Even in this regard, the traditional liberal view of classical liberalism is unacceptable. And it is unacceptable because, as has also been made clear from the debate and from the relevant statements of institutions which are pillars of the civil state, the judges, the coordination of the Assembly of the Bar Associations, the Scientific Service of the Parliament, it limits itself to excessively, that is to say, it harms at the core the right of assembly and assembles, which are exactly the form of expression of natural freedom under the conditions laid down in this Constitution. But this criticism is not enough. It's 'knocked', you'd say. We have to say something more, that the state does not simply restrict or mainly restrict a so-called natural freedom. The state, state power produces realities through violence, through threat of violence, through ideology. And what is the raw material of this production of reality? The human body. The material of violence and threat of violence is body, bodies. Her violence and threats regulate, discipline, embarrassment, or train persistent bodies. So this bill does not confine itself to a so-called natural freedom, but it is produced again by the human body, or is trying to reproduce the human body, a body disciplined, a body that is obedient, regulated to move at the rate that is whistling by state power, that is, Mr Chrysochoidis. And for this body, the self-evident things that the various Members of the New Democracy are talking about here, and the common sense they are referring to, will indeed be self-evident and common sense, but for that, the new body, the regulated, obedient, disciplined body that you want to create with your bill, Mr Chrysochoidis, with an extreme political choice. And who did he choose? Who else - and it is clear - could Mr Mitsotakis choose for this job, for this inspirational fascist - and I insist on the definition - of a deep social transformation, for this operation of profound social transformation? The neofotist, therefore fanatical neo-right fan, Mr. Chrysochoid, who has already given written samples. He has given written samples of the Indian case, he has given written samples of torture to protesters who he himself covered with the so-called SADs that he guided in a specific direction, with the incursions of shops last weekend to beat his praetorians to the waste - as I said before - in Exarchia. And I could multiply the list, not of atoms but of the bad choices of the newly-eighted Mr. Chrysochide. But you don't have to. Mr. Chrysochoidis is proud of this list. He's proud of that list! And with the bill that stands for and defends and we are discussing today, it proves that it is precisely the embryonic of the political mutation of the New Democracy by a centre-right liberal party of the 2000s in the new right-wing, far-right format of today. And as it fits the new morality of this format that exists only to serve the Mitsotaic regime, it defends its bill only with lies and distortions. Mr Chrysochoidis tells us and reiterates with the note shared by the Members of the New Democracy that the bill comes to regulate a allegedly regulatorial field with the aim of not closing the road to protests by the 50 and 100 people, namely that social and economic life is not excessively disturbed in cases of small concentration. The field, Mr Chrysochide, you know it, but you deliberately distort reality. In relation to this particular issue it is completely regulated by the 2013 Presidential Decree. That is why many small concentrations of fifty, seventy, eighty people are confined to the sidewalk or to a lane of traffic. How is that possible? How can this be if the field isn't set? Mr Chrysochoidis also tells us, and after that the Members of the New Democracy have reiterated the note - and I say again - which has shared them, without, of course, feeling the need to argue in this regard, that this bill is fully constitutional. That's enough! If you say so, it'll probably be like that! But listen. What does the Constitution say? It is possible to dismantle a demonstration - meeting only in two restrictive cases in the Constitution. One case is where there is a risk to public security and the other is a serious disturbance to social and economic life. What's this bill doing? It comes and adds two other reasons to the restrictive measures referred to in the Constitution. It doesn't specialize in the terms of the Constitution. In other words, this piece of legislation does not tell us that there is a risk to public security in cases (a, (b) and (c) of serious economic and social disruption in cases (a, (b, (c, and (d), as might be due by an executive of the law. He's doing something else. It adds two additional reasons for the dismantling of a protest. The first reason is the non-notification. The second reason for dismantling the protest is that an organizer has not been appointed, and the task of taking all the necessary steps and, if he does not take them, what is happening? It is threatened with the charge of civil liability for possible damages that have arisen. And not just that. Here is an objective fictitious responsibility for the organizer, who has the same weight to prove that he has fulfilled all the obligations referred to in the law. All this, therefore, according to Mr Chrysochide and his colleagues in the New Democracy, is absolutely constitutional. Which constitution I don't know. However, not in the current constitution of the country. Third argument. In fact, it says, the obligation to notify is not contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, and there is also a decision by the ECHR. But what does the EDPS say? It says that disclosure does not run counter to the European Convention on Human Rights, and in any case it cannot fail to do so or the refusal to take the authorisation is a reason to dismantle the demonstration or meeting. So it seems you haven’t read well what you call it. You don't know well. Fourth issue. They are invoked and invoked by Mr Chrysochoidis and other New Democracy MPs, the example of Germany in which such a law applies. Yes, sir. What don't they tell us? We are not told that Germany, because of historical and political reasons - and this is exactly where it really is - has adopted - and to be precise in West Germany - the doctrine of fighting democracy since 1950. Do you know what the fighting democracy is, Mr. Chrysochide? The democracy which fights against the inner enemy. In other words, the law in force in Germany is part of a framework of fighting democracy just to build and face up to the inner enemy. Who was an inner enemy in West Germany in the 1950s? Soviet communism. And why are you being exposed, Mr. Chrysochoid? Because using this example you are showing that you too want to build the internal enemy here in Greece 2020. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It may not be Soviet communism, but it is the popular strata that are affected by the policy of the New Democracy, it is those who protest, those who claim, are those who fight, are those who go on the road to oppose the extreme policies, yours, Mr Chrysochoidis, and Mr Mitsotakis. This inner enemy you're building, this inner enemy you're afraid of. However, to know that no matter how many of the prohibitions, no matter how many threats you are making - because what else is the phrase you have made in a spatial guardian's style 'the law will be implemented' rather than just a threat to this inner enemy? - you cannot stop the human trend for collective struggle and claim. It has not stopped any ban on this universal trend, neither on the agricultural uprisings of the Middle Ages, nor on the large populist labor movements of the nineteenth and twentieth century. Nor did the bans of the anti-government movement succeed in stopping my own generation. Neither the bans against the great anti-immemorial events, demonstrations and meetings of the Greek people have succeeded in preventing and overthrowing this palatial wave that led to a major political change, nor these prohibitions, the right-wing bans that you are presently introducing and tomorrow will be voted on by your colleagues in the New Democracy and I hope that the Change Movement will not make this huge political disobedience to support the construction of the internal enemy. So whatever prohibitions you vote on, we will be here, the people will be here and overthrow you once more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. Janakopoulos. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis, has requested the floor. Here you go, Mr. Chrysochoid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u365	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I refer to what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman and other colleagues have commented on all this time, I would like to refer to a case that has been mentioned by many of you here, and I really feel the need to respond, because what is happening here is shameful and I will explain to you what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u366	SYRIZA said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u367	Two days ago there was a meeting in the European Parliament, in the LIEBE Commission, which is the third time I have taken part. I've been there three times. However, now because of a coronary, as you can see, it is by teleconferencing. There, then, there was one issue, as Greece is being accused by some and is being prosecuted by some that two bodies were found somewhere in an undetermined place at the border. We don't know if it's on Greek soil or Turkish soil. Anyway, I'm on it. And Greece had absolutely to apologise for these issues and, indeed, some of them...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u368	You.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u369	Greece apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u370	You guys had to apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u371	Mr. Janakopoulos, he didn't interrupt you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u372	You personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u373	Mr. Janakopoulos, please. He heard you without talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u374	Listen. Be cool...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u375	Cold-blooded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u376	...because we and me and our country and our country...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u377	Leave the country. You.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u378	...and the police and soldiers stood up and prevented, Mr. Janakopoulos, hundreds of thousands of people from entering our borders. And that's why the whole people are with us in this. So don't give me that. Be careful, because these are very serious things. There was, therefore, a Spanish MEP of the Socialist Party, the ruling party of Spain, who replied to Mr Mitarakis on a matter and said to him: "The Greek Government is far-right". So I told him there: "You must be very careful, because the government is elected, it is democratic and, in any case, if this gentleman is so sensitive to refugees, he would do well to suggest to his government, Mr Sanchez, in the socialist government, to take a few thousand there." However, the sensitivity of this gentleman and many others is extinct here, in blaming other countries, to accuse Greece of such a tortured country and so burdened with the issue of immigration, where we have lifted enormous burdens on the entire Greek people and our country. And those of you of SYRIZA are curious to see how respecting human rights in Spain and how this gentleman is very sensitive you only have to visit the Spanish-Morocco border to draw some conclusions. I now come to the issues of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2000 I presented to Parliament the bill on the use of weapons by police officers. It was also a taboo issue at the time and no one dared to touch it and so we operated until 2002 with an institutional framework of the security orders, the Occupational dosings, and Greece was always condemned to the European Court of Justice for its creepy institutional framework. Then, then, the rapporteur of the then coalition said that the bill solves the hands of the police, that we will mourn victims and that arbitraryness will increase, that it is incomplete and inappropriate. To date I have to tell you, eighteen years later, abuses have been zeroed, sentences in the HR have disappeared and no one has complained about imperfections of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u379	Oh, you've forgotten him!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u380	If we were to listen to the coalition in 2002 then Corconese would have been acquitted today!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u381	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u382	And you really remind me at the time, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Unfortunately, you repeat history as a farce, as a tragedy, unrepentant and immigrant, in fact foreigners, and fundamentally non-interested in the parliamentary process. I have not heard a single phrase or a proposal for a draft law. Here we try to build consensus and you make slogans. Here we are striving to fill an institutional gap, and you are solely responsible for accusations and curses. Why other than curses is the status of a "government bill"? What other than the charges is the advisability that the bill is submitted to suppress the social struggles that are coming? You published a table in which the articles of the bill correspond to the legal decree of the junta. Professor Alivizatos called that an atrocity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u383	Your partner!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u384	I'm telling you he's abusive and the stupid way you compare all this. To prove this to you, I, too, table a table where the junta presidential law is, this today's bill and the Kamina proposition. The similarities, as you count them, are many. In other words, Manitakis, Alivizatos, honorary President Vrodakis, Kaminas from the legal arsenal of the dictatorship were inspired to make their own proposal of law. I put it in the Minutes that you really are ashamed of this absurdity. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So you are simply complaining and because the construction of the enemy and the conflict feed you, you are unable to accept a bill based on mutual acceptance and cooperation, as laid down in the Constitution. Democracy has fled all these years while it has not regulated this right and you are asking for this situation to continue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Non-regulation has given birth and gives rise to inequality and awakens social competition, but these inequalities are not your concern. The disruption, as some of you say, is an intrinsic element of this right. To shopkeepers and tails in the streets, say that, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA! If the bill is not discussed, because the issue is taboo for you, you have completely formulated a conspiracy theory of accelerating his statement, and you insist even though you know - and I repeat it again - that it is just the emergency measures for the pandemic that have delayed his statement. Besides, for the imaginary mass movement of the autumn you dream of, like the hungry one, all the conditions of the law are met. Is anyone understood or implied - in any case - that mass demonstrations will be banned from this bill? Where does he say that? Where does he write that? It writes it in your mind and in your perception of how we legislate in here and in your perception of how politics is exercised and how political confrontation is made. So the argument about suffocation is really pretextable and oblivious. You have not even wondered before you started the curses and analogies in other countries, in the major European democracies. So I say in the Minutes what is true in other countries. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Other colleagues have dealt with this here, Mrs Vulture previously. However, I want to give you something else. There is judgment 2444/2002, the case of the European Court of Human Rights led by Mrs Françoise Tulkens, who is famous throughout Europe as being an undead-minded judge. So she tried an appeal that they made forty of your companions in 2002 and the decision came out in 2011. Forty - six of your companions, including Alexis Tsipras, had then gone to Genoa. And then the following things happened in Genoa: On 18 July 2001 the forty-six together with other eight hundred Greeks of the Committee for the Demonstration in Genoa, G8, took the ferry to Patras to go to Agona. Forty-six say that when they arrived in Angola - what they say in their own books - they entered eighteen coaches in Genoa. Suddenly the police, with the three cars they were on board, led them back to the port. They claim that because they refused to board, the police, special forces surrounded them, beat them, led them by force in the ship’s garage and beat them again. Finally, they were forced to return to Patras. This is history, I read history and summary. The police are refusing the report of violence. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall finish, Mr President. And he says they agreed to go back to Greece, but they wanted to exert passive resistance against the police to see them. When their officers refused, they started throwing fire extinguishers, bunkers and other objects and stuff. The Schengen Agreement has been temporarily suspended so that dangerous people do not enter Italy at all times in the decision. By a majority, the Court found the applicants' claims to be inadmissible - in other words - to the effect that the Italian State acted in a lawful manner because it restricted the right of applicants to the effect that they were at risk of disrupting public security. That's what happened in Europe, isn't it? Because you talk about junkers, they happen in Europe, they happen in Sweden, France and a number of other countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u385	Do you adopt them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u386	So leave the junta stuff, because you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u387	Please! Anything you want to say to Mr. Janakopoulos, he will answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u388	You have been operating all these years within the framework of the European Union and don't try to get all the legislation done now. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall therefore conclude, Mr President. I urge you to see the bill again and to be informed. The world did not start and end in Koumoundourou, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You did not find a word about the fact that this law informs citizens with a platform that will operate on a daily basis to guide citizens on alternative routes. Aren't you interested in those who protest? Should those who do not participate be punished? Don't expect the law to be applied, I'll tell you again. Do not hope that a new field of disobedience will be found by carrying out concentrations without the application of legal procedures. As with asylum, as with squares that were occupied by various elements that troubled and tortured people, common sense will prevail. And I close with the main one: democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, democracy of participation, democracy of respect, tolerance and cooperation, democracy of fertile confrontation and consultation, which we are striving for here and in which, unfortunately, you do not participate, this democracy will win, because we want to go ahead! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Janakopoulos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u390	Mr Chrysochoidis accuses us here of the fact that we are not supposed to participate in the parliamentary debate, when he seems to have not even read his bill. He hasn't read his bill. With what he has come out and now he seems to be making the same mistake again, and the billions have sinned of no man wise. ‘The dissolution, therefore, of a public meeting in progress may be ordered if it is carried out without having been notified, as set out above.’ What do you say to us, Mr Chrysochide, that this bill does not stipulate and does not provide for the break-up of a demonstration? Who are you kidding? You think we don't read the way you don't read? Secondly, what did Mr Chrysochide say to us? In fact, she confirmed, until her last word, my speech. He came and defended the practices of the Berlusconi government in 2002 in Italy, in the context of Genoa's great anti-globe protest. I am pleased, Mr Chrysochoidis, that you have become a sleeper, apart from a neo-right fan, and a fan of Mr Berlusconi and of the practices he has chosen and he has imposed during the demonstrations in Genoa. But, Mr Chrysochide, you forgot to say something. Whatever efforts Berlusconi, the Italian Prime Minister at the time, may have done to dismantle the demonstration in Genoa, the demonstration in Genoa took place, Mr Chrysochide. Do you understand what the problem is? The demonstrations, however you try to dismantle them, will take place, because democracy lives in demonstrations and gatherings. It doesn't sigh, as in a creepy way you dared to say in your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u391	Thank you very much, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u393	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u394	You won't get away from me. You're not lying here. The text of the bill is in front of everyone. The article you have read has other things in it and says that it is prohibited without prejudice to the article relating to spontaneous and emergency, that is to say, that all these concentrations are legalised. So you're lying. The second lie you're telling is your reference to Berlusconi. I'm not talking about Berlusconi. I'm talking about the Human Rights Court.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u395	Berlusconi's fine with you! Why are you losing your temper?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u396	Mr. Janakopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u397	...which is the most valid institution for protecting human rights in the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u398	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u400	No, Mr. Ragosi, please. Mr. Janakopoulos spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u401	The Minister who's lying about the bill is leaving!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u402	Mr. Ragosi, please. I didn't give you the floor. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Spyridon Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u403	Ladies and gentlemen, we have committed ourselves to a specific democratic and liberal framework for the demonstrations. Today, one year later, we are closing a historic stain by voting for the law provided for in Article 11(2) of the Constitution, because, as the authoritarian constitutionalists Manitakis and Alivizatos have acknowledged, there is today a government with courage and political masturbation that incorporates the law of law. I also congratulate Mr Kamine personally, who, in the difficult times of 2011 and 2012, was the first to dare and speak of the need to regulate the right of assembly, but also of the Members of the Change Movement who are making a structured and creative opposition, respecting their role. In this context, Mr Chrysochoidis responded to the political controversy and accepted the key changes made to the Change Movement. Thus, in the person of the Minister, the government honoured parliament on the basis of the rule of law. Mr Janakopoulos, who, as usual, does not want to hear the opposite because he does not like it, once again highlighting the impossibility of political arguments, attacked almost all of his speech to Mr Chryssohoid. It has shown that political empathy is the area that always chooses to be measured. He chose to follow his chief's bisect, without any political positions. The democraticity, seriousness, but also the effectiveness of Michael Chrysochoidis is also known in the pan-Hellenic world. Apparently the Minister doesn't need my support. However, I have been following his course for years and I cannot be indifferent to this fifteen-minute delirium by Mr Janakopoulos, as well as to his two-minute terminology. I am really sorry, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for Mr Janakopoulos. All of you, however, know that the moral advantage in politics is conquered by the behaviour of each of us precisely towards our political opponents. Today, Mr. Janakopoulos was re-tested. It has shown that it has nothing to do with the Left of Principles and Values. He also proved once again - and I understand why you're all leaning on your heads - how he beaten with so much joy and so much success with Panos Kammenos, your friend. I must, ladies and gentlemen, give some more answers, especially to those who, after all these speeches in this House today, are still talking about a junta and likened to the Government of the New Republic to the junta of the Colonels. I say again, then, that they are unscrupulous and ignorant, because only someone who does not know what the Colonels' junta is can now speak of a dictatorship, describing as a dictatorship precisely this democratically elected government. However, it is not just unequivocal for those who make these comparisons. They operate - and you operate - unfortunately as counterfeiters of history, altering the historical memory of the next generations. The trivialization of concepts, the unreasonable use of words and symbols despises the very symbols and ultimately harms historical memory and consciousness. SYRIZA's rapporteur, who followed your colleague outside Athens, has now managed to link the unconnected in his speech, the disruption of social life to debt and loan interest rates. Very good! Instead of coming here to this Chamber and having the political courage to pay tribute to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy for recovering the confidence of the international investment community and the low interest rates on borrowing, he actually tried to smuggle them into smuggling. Even after the outbreak of the pandemic, I remind you, we went out for the second time - and I talk about Greece because Mr Janakopoulos tried to distinguish the government from Greece, that is terrible - on the markets in June, by issuing ten-year bonds at a rate of 1.57%, that is to say, about equal to the last version before the coronary in October. Ladies and gentlemen, these interest rates are equivalent to 1/3 of the loan rate achieved by Mr. Tsipras's government, when he first came out in 2017 on the markets with the well-known dummies and the jurrors. And I would remind you that the interest rate at which SYRIZA was finally borrowed in 2017 was only 0.3% lower than Samara's bond rate, the first after the market-exclusion in 2010. Tell your colleague Mr Ragosi that he was in 2010 and not in 2009. In his party and in him to say that. I say this because neither we in this House forget much more than we do, the Greeks and Greeks, as they do not forget that the party that Mr Raguss represents today has broken the middle class and attempted to salt the institutions. SYRIZA - and we have seen it today very strongly from Mr Janakopoulos' speech - is returning to the old patterns, from your Chief of State who has announced a social disaster, to your MPs who are speaking of an orgy of repression. But we have 2020 and not 2012. The opposition with the bracelets and agglomerations and tombs, your hope of the country's destruction in order to regain power, the opposition to the opposition, is in the past. The Minister told you many times that the draft law has been ready since February. It comes today only so that it is not discussed with limited participation by Members and your own and that you do not cry for it during the lockdown. Why do you repeat the same gloomy and populist excesses? Of course I understand. Talk about shops and shops, about cassettes and pastures, about the parastate you went to set up is difficult for everyone. You seek to find a way out of the gutter that you created. But you are forgetting your institutional role. You are, unfortunately, for the place, Dedicated Opposition. The place needs a serious Civic Opposition. Not newly rich rulers who live to repeat the resalto on the joints of power. By radicalization you either don't understand the provision, or you're mocking us. The government does not, ladies and gentlemen, turn against ideas. We are well aware of the history of ideologies. And obviously we are the radical force of liberalism. And we know that now, and when our founder chose ERA. We are not fighting the political action that moves within the limits of the Constitution. But we are fighting the fight against terrorism on the right and left. The appeal to armed and blind violence. The imposition of extreme ideologies and fanaticism. And in this war we will be ruthless. I'm coming now to the chief of Mera25. Mr Varoufakis added another provocative political appearance today. I'm explaining it to him once again. Many speakers have said so today, but they have not understood it. Spontaneous public meetings are legal unless they pose a risk to public security. Why don't you finally want to understand it? Just to look like your former SYRIZA comrades. Maybe. But are you not telling us and is Mr Varoufakis not telling us: do we not protect private and public property? He, as an adversary to urban democracy, what does he stand for? What do you stand for? The disobedience and chaos, like your SYRIZA partners? How is it possible for Mr Varoufakis to confuse historical times with such naiveness? What does he think, that all of us, the thousands of citizens who dragged us to ATMs this time five years ago with Mr Tsipras and his capital controls and his disastrous negotiation, are ignorant and unscrupulous? Where did he learn all these great truths? Moraite school? By a ruling class? Or at the capitalist study centres in England and the United States where he spent most of his life? How does it have the nerve to appear before the elected representatives of the people and to make us an ironic ideological catechism? Shame on you. Shame on you. Politicians were judging, judged today and will be judged both by the people and the history of their actions and omissions. Mr. Varoufakis, in whatever name dropping he is trying to escape, whatever show he goes up, any dressing eccentricities he thinks, will always be identified with one of the darkest pages of our modern history, along with Mr. Tsipras. I'm sorry about that. However, coming back to the bill, I would once again say that we have been legislating for decades in Europe, as Mrs Vulture has explained very well, but none and none of the SYRIZA speakers dared to answer. Let's see what you'll come to say next and the next and tomorrow your leader will come to this room. But speak specifically and tell us which country of Europe or of the whole world does not have a framework for mergers. And you are glad to tell us which of these countries is a junta or not. Unless you see the junta only in Greece. So we correct the image of the capital center that paralyzes almost every day if you don't understand. An image that honors no one, no protesters, no police. We protect the trader's right to economic activity, the right of the citizen to his insolvent movement with respect always to the principle of proportionality. If you understand. Because we must not forget that the exercise of a minority right does not entail a disproportionate burden on the majority. This is because the abuse of a right is tantamount to a violation of other constitutional rights. Because the right to public space - if you understand this concept too - which is directly linked to the democratic principle, it is not only the protesters who have it, but all the citizens of this country. And, as the President-in-Office of our Republic said very well, in the squares, people are demanding a constitution and in the squares they are destroying it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis dares and moves forward. Bold the Exarches. Boldly with the universities. It condemns consents that will change our political culture and our political standards, turning a page in the country. It makes the Greek dream true by combating social inequalities, strengthening the institutions of our society, such as health, education and justice. By giving every Greek and every Greek the right, the equal opportunity to progress. To go one step ahead of their parents and families. So those who swear to democracy and do not serve collaborative micro-party benefits, those who do not have fruitful relations with power, are now being called upon to take a certain position in the interests of democracy, the homeland and the coming generations of Greeks and European citizens. If SYRIZA's side realizes what that means. To vote on a law that is a constitutional check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u404	Thank you very much Mr Lebanese. Let's go back to the list. Voliotis has the floor, Mr Christos Bukokouros, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the key phrase was heard in the Chamber just now by the Minister, Mr Chrysochide. Democracy doesn't run away. It is a total responsibility for all of us that democracy in this matter has been fused over the past decades. It's a total responsibility of the political world. Others of despicability and political interest, others from apathy and indifference, others from fear of ideological terrorism, have stopped and allowed these phenomena that deeply concern the Greek people. We do not say that from the Step of the House. All the measurements of public opinion say so over time. I can't help but regret that the officer's insistence on being identified with a purely minority viewpoint. I also do not understand the angry reaction of the Communist Party, because it has proved at least in recent years that it is the only political body from the wider left that can organise demonstrations without problems. There is therefore no right to protest, not even spontaneous. The constitutional prediction that the synergy is merely and quietly protected. The Minister made it clear to you. This fantasy that the protests will be banned is a pretext for SYRIZA who, during the previous period 2012-2015, used those sections of the protests, the lower part of the square, as a siege ram for the castle of power. Then she neglected them, and she also threw some fish in some cases, so that we could not be ignored. That's exactly what's going on, that's just how it's justified the obsession of Officer Opposition today. For indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree that a mature democracy must propose and respect the rights of the few. I would also say to you that an integrated democracy must respect the rights of one another. What, though, is the case when these few get together in organised minorities and mistaken, trespassed, tortured, offended and abused the rights of many? What kind of democracy is it that has prevailed in recent years in the country? And I repeat, without any hesitation: it is the responsibility of the political system as a whole and proportionately, if you wish. Is social fighters these "heirs" of the various paths? The social fighters, ladies and gentlemen, are putting new ideas into the social body, with a view to the progress of many and with a view to social progress as a whole. The social fighters don't throw molotovs and stones. These are the so-called "bugs" who intrude into unorganised demonstrations, are tolerated by the organizers of these demonstrations and are directed against the trader who expects to pay the check, has to deal with his recurring work and has to pay the broken window by the "bugs". Is that a democracy? Is it a democracy to ban traffic or work access? Who are those whom we unintentionally or willingly, with political feasibility or if you want in a more general ideological approach we are protecting? Are they the ones who put them in Bakoyannis's jungles the other day, who said they were accurate and on the other they were trying to destroy them? Are they the ones who vandalized the monument of Marfin's dead? I didn't hear a lot of convicts in this Chamber. These vandals who have turned against a monument have not in practice justified the inaccurate assassins of our three wronged fellow humans? Is that the ones we want to protect? No, ladies and gentlemen! Democratization must at last begin not to fumigate. Democracy doesn't run away. There are political forces moving in the blur. The New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all of us have chosen to move in the light. Of course, the protests are being made known today, we all know that. In order for a Member to speak on a square, on a road he must make it known to the authorities. We know these things are true. No right is prohibited, no right is restricted and is not erroneous. Here comes the law to force us to be all more responsible. I also think that the rights of the protesters are protected, in the sense that they will be quiet that they will not go on a course where they will be in danger of opening their heads forty - forty-four 'blacks' - in what is happening, I am not generally referring to the marches and demonstrations. So this has to be stopped. To us - and I conclude, Mr President - respect for the law and order is a condition of freedom. The freedom of the individual ends where the freedom of another person is affected in modern societies and modern democracies. Let the blur be stopped and, above all, let SYRIZA stop fishing in the blurred waters of all these things that sometimes make their presence strong, bizarrely when they govern the governments of liberal centre-rights, when they fade and disappear and come back to be used as a siege ram. That'll stop. The antisocial activity of the few, which harms the interests of many, will end not because Mitsotakis or the New Democracy want it, but because he wants it, he wants it, he declares it and the overwhelming majority of the Greek people demonstrates it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u406	Thank you too, Mr. Buquoir. Now we go to Thessaloniki and to Mr. Ioannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much, Mr President. "Public outdoor meetings and other provisions", this is the title of the bill and, of course, leaves no doubt as to where it aims. Every popular movement, every popular protest, without exception, enters its aim. This is another piece of legislation to prevent the struggles of the people and, by this reason, and a peculiar pretext for the escalation of anti-grassroots policy in the next few months, a piece of legislation between all the previous governments and so many other governments have passed. What should we want to do first? The disgusting provision for banning the mobilisation of auctions adopted by SYRIZA, a provision which, of course, still remains in force in the new Republic, and under which the mobilisations against the auctioning of popular dwellings are persecuted as an individual offence? Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, who is the inner enemy? Or do we remember the law of SYRIZA with which the right to strike is effectively invalidated, a law that is properly exploited by its magnificence and lazy and of course also operates with the current Government of New Democracy? The birth of 2018 was, it was not long ago, and it still sounds in our ears the SYRIZA's then arguments that were abstracting the well-known reactionary theory of minorities who are afflicting the world and to which arguments the New Democracy MPs were defending and of course voted with pleasure, if you remember, this provision. Then who was the inner enemy, Mr. Janakopoulos? The very same arguments concerning minority groups are repeated today by the Members of the New Democracy. We can also remember the terrorist a little earlier, which the New Democracy voted for in 2004 and which the PASOK - a change movement, but SYRIZA did not only apply normally, but also enriched them with other legislations. Terrors who form the root, the starting point, the uterus of the arrangements on so-called radical violence and wrap up in a glue of innocent people, without any evidence at all. But here, in radicalisation, we must stand a little back because its treatment is the heart of the bill, the heart of which is in Article 19. It is therefore recommended by the Cojam Act, which is the responsibility of the scientific study and development of actions relating in particular to the prevention of various forms and manifestations of violence, such as radicalisation and violent extremism, domestic violence and racial violence, intra-school violence and school intimidation, as well as racism. All in the mixer, then, all in the same bag! And this is how radical thinking, radical ideas, real and all that are opposed to the dictatorship of capital where we live, not only are they criminalised, but they are still even identified with domestic violence or racial violence. And you're talking us from above in the same article, 19, and scientific analysis. Mercy! Well, look, leave science alone and say that all these bills are neither Chrysochide nor Mitsotakis, as they were neither Tsipras nor Karamanlis before, nor implement the relevant directions of the European Union. The European Union speaks openly in its reports on the risk of public security, you know what? From the people's protests. The other European Union of democracy, as it does! And even more openly, the European Union is smuggling the action of the working people against terrorism and the ideology of violence, creating a multifaceted mechanism of suppression of ideological pressure, chichiedism, state authoritarianism with a view to so-called radicalization, namely subordination and integration into the barbaric capitalist system. And, of course, this European Union in the most official way equates Nazism - fascism with communism, proving that what really burns it is the liberationist communist ideology and, of course, that action, which is aimed at overthrowing the rotten and barbaric system we are living in. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm just gonna need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u408	As long as you want, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u409	That is why, for Article 19 of the New Democracy bill that speaks of dealing with this radicalisation, the other urban parties either make constructive remarks, such as the Change Movement, or have literally swallowed their language, such as SYRIZA's otherwise popularist. Everything. The European Union's krone in your head is all yours and it is yours. How could you hurt her? A bill, listen, which seeks to slander the people's struggles and ban any mobilisation through 'ladder' provisions which the police will interpret, as well as other mechanisms of repression, a bill which opens the way for all kinds of provocations through the unfounded provision of objective urban responsibility for the organizers of a concentration which must literally prove that they are not elephants, does not get any improvement. His place is in the basket of unusables and no one is fooled. And yet, you know we don't chew from the subtle government propaganda that this reactionary bill isn't about the organized and frustrated struggles of the class movement. The exact opposite happens. This testimonies and the long experience of the class movement that says that for these games it is ultimately intended for these repressive measures even when their escalating application is chosen. And that is why the people with their struggle will cancel it in practice, as they did with so many and similar laws in the past. No one can stop the steam engine of history, the class struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Now we're going south on Elijah, Mr. Dionysios Kalamatiano from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill that puts a historical, individual, constitutional right collectively exercised, the right to a meeting, a constitutional right that you want to limit excessively. You are voting for an executive of the Constitution which suffocates the constitutional provision. You say that you are supposed to want to protect citizens from small groups of protesters. Repeat this argument while you know that it is already regulated by Presidential Decree 120/2013. You've introduced it. It is predicted that when a gathering is small, the police can carry the protesters to the pavement and the transport is not hindered. You know that already applies. But you are trying to justify restricting a constitutional right, causing social automation. You say that the professionals of the centre of Athens must be protected. But we all know that shops throughout Greece do not close through the marches, they are closed by your own economic policy that brings down recession, poverty and blossoms. The bill, despite the legislative improvements you have made, is still a fossil of the dark past of the recent history of our country. You have made minimal changes in order to secure the vote of the Change Movement, so that you can obtain a supposedly progressive legalisation for the "extract" you are legislating on. You need this to justify your submission to neoliberal proposals that are contrary to even liberalism. But you forget that legalisation is based on society itself. No law, no police provision can prevent major social movements. The unconstitutionality of the provisions is obvious and is noted by the Scientific Service of the Parliament by the plenary session of the lawyers, by bodies and scientists. One of the most serious obligations laid down by your bill is the definition of a person as the organizer of any concentration or demonstration. In Article 13, the organiser shall be liable to compensate for any damage arising from the meeting. In other words, you are responsible for the burden of proof. You give him objective responsibility for the actions of others. A legal approach that has already been abandoned in Europe since the 1950s. In addition, Article 3 requires prior notification of the meeting. The position of the House's Scientific Service is overwhelming for you. What does the Scientific Committee of the Parliament propose? It suggests that the absence of disclosure alone does not affect the legality of the meeting or differentiates the constitutional protection of the undisclosed meeting. I read just the text of Parliament's Scientific Service: "The spontaneous, i.e. meetings without notification, enjoy constitutional protection, since the Constitution does not distinguish between a meeting notified and undisclosed." And the Scientific Service of the Parliament continues: "The European Court of Justice states that spontaneous meetings are protected and that in special circumstances an spontaneous meeting, in response, for example, to a political event, cannot be dissolved solely on the ground that prior notification is lacking". And the Scientific Service concludes: “So, the only non-disclosure of the meeting cannot be a legal basis for its dissolution”. Furthermore, Articles 7, 8 and 9 provide for limitations, i.e. police provisions, which impose obligations on the way in which the meeting is to be held. There are criteria which, however, are concluded with a mere possibility on the part of the authorities. These provisions are clearly inconsistent with Article 11 of the Constitution, according to which a public meeting may only be banned for two reasons: firstly, when there is a serious cause for public security or where a serious disturbance to socio-economic life is threatened. Your bill provides for two new reasons to dismantle a meeting in progress: firstly, the failure to notify and secondly, non-compliance with police restrictions, even though the Constitution lists the grounds for ban. The editorial legislator requires the joint legislator to introduce guarantees so that the police authority does not arbitrarily prohibit. It does not impose restrictions on the right, on the nature of the right to freedom of assembly, no purpose is raised. He is not controlled by the legislator or by the administration. With your bill a constitutionally protected energy becomes illegal. It is understandable and clear that you are trying to rid the trade union movement, to fade the voices of protesting social groups. You want to impose the doctrine "law and order", in order to establish a new order. Ladies and gentlemen, the causes of violence are the economic and social inequalities and the disappearance of the social state. You are well aware that the inactivity of your Government, the selective funding of the few and the chosen ones will trigger the recession, unemployment and poverty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. The increase in economic and market problems, the deterioration of labour rights, the increase in unemployment, the dramatic decline in citizens' incomes will cause social reactions and mobilisations. These are the ones you want to prevent, prevent and become. You know that a very difficult autumn is coming for the social majority. So hurry to take steps to curb democratic freedoms. After all, we all remember that, in the midst of a pandemic, in the middle of a coronary, you have restored the political capture of the strikers. It's obvious that your plan has been working on it for months. The conditions you create will trigger a wave of popular discontent and protest and then what happens? Do you really think that with such anti-constitutional laws you will be suppressing the popular reaction? Clearly you can't. In the end, freedom finds a way to breathe. That's how it always works, no matter how insistent you insist. The bill creates a suffocating, restrictive, deterrent and repressive framework for demonstrations and mobilisations. This anachronistic piece of legislation refers to bans and repression. You have had an opportunity to initiate a serious and honest dialogue with all the political forces on this issue. But you did not do what the Prime Minister said. You didn't do it because you were flirting with the far right audience. This should also be understood to those who move in the logic of 'What Plastira, what Papagos'. At times all the progressive forces are required to respond to anachronism, conservation and repression. To defend democratic, labour and social rights. To claim decent wages and an overall improvement in the standard of living of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u412	Thank you very much, Mr Kalamatiano. We will now proceed to the Athens Western Sector and Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement. I will now give my place to Mr Constantinople. Thank you very much, good night! Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u413	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which should have been here for some time. Isolated voices, like the former mayor of Athenians, Mr. Kamine, have unfortunately not been heard. Even ready drafts of laws with the help of prominent constitutionalists, such as Mr Alivizatos or Mr Manitakis, unfortunately did not go ahead. In Greece, the issue of regulating the framework of events and demonstrations was considered taboo. But it is good to look at what is happening in the other countries of Europe. It is good, ladies and gentlemen, to look at what is happening both in the rest of the world and in the other mature democracies, because unfortunately, many times today during the debate in this Chamber, I felt as if we were not living in a mature democracy, as if we were not living in 2020, but as if we were back in 1971, 1973, as if we do not have institutions, as if we have not the most mature democracy ever, as if not all of this in Greece today. So in all the other countries there are corresponding laws. Unfortunately in our country the law that existed is the law of 1971, the law of the junta! And it certainly does not pay tribute to the political system, but also over time to all governments, I will tell you that the political courage has not been found so far in order to ensure through a law of a government of postmultiple this weighting of the two serious constitutional laws of goods, the principle and the right of the "symbol" and of course the principle and the right of normal life, that someone should go to his life, to his work, to his work in the center. You know, ladies and gentlemen, and I am primarily addressing SYRIZA's colleagues - the irresistible cries and the junta-like shepherds have never helped. They did not really help what we should do as Opposition. And our work as Opposition - and I do not want to teach anyone - is how we will be able to resolve the problematic, serious problematic elements of the government's legislation - and it still has some, Minister, this legislation - to correct them, to resolve them, to have a better legislation for the Greek people. You know, all this junta stuff reminded me in 2012. I was then a Member of the PASOK government and George Papandreou and I still remember the banner in the Constitution, the banner you had made, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the banner that said "The junta did not end in 1973". Of course, Mr Ragus then, your rapporteur for this draft law, was the first-class minister of the PASOK Government at the time and Mr Papandreou. I would therefore expect from a man who has suffered, like all of us, the whole poison, the division, the political hatred to be much more careful when choosing this opposition criticism. And, of course, I can't leave anything else in my mind. I have, of course, been present, but we cannot accept lessons from either political history or moral or any of the things that have been heard in this Chamber by both Mr Tzanakopoulos and Mrs Fotou. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we have made it clear from the very beginning that the original draft law put forward by this government in this House did not have the necessary institutional guarantees, without which there was absolutely no way of voting on our side. We first made constructive criticism and managed to cross our own red lines. We first talked about the need for a judge and a prosecutor, either to ban or to dismantle meetings. And that is what we have achieved. We have called for a withdrawal here and now for those taking part in a banned demonstration to be withdrawn. And that is what we have achieved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. We on the issue of spontaneous meeting, in which by definition there can be no question of prior notification - I think it is absolutely logical - insisted that it should be changed and that we have achieved that. We have done so, with the pressure we exerted on the government. And of course, it is to your honour, Minister, that you have heard this. You know - and I close with it - that the easy solution, the very easy option is to say a blind 'not all'. What does it cost anyway? Especially in the matter of the magma free, if anything, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you've given us written samples. The difficult one - and that is, if you like, our distinct political perception and placement - is to be placed with responsibility and to be able to follow the difficult path.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u414	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u415	It may have difficulties in understanding it by some, but we will stick precisely to it, in the power of responsibility, of utility, which in the end, instead of looking at micro-communism and populism, instead of looking at the division, which, unfortunately, we have filled in recent years, is a power that is useful to the country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u416	Thank you. Mr Socrates Vardakis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u417	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I do not know what some colleagues mean by 'prohibited demonstrations'. I have not yet understood it: 'Prohibited demonstrations'. Ms. Giannakopoulou, that's where the government is. It's not SYRIZA government. SYRIZA didn't bring the bill. The New Democracy brought it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Minister, do you really think they will ask your permission to protest all those who, tomorrow, will claim a piece of bread, a piece of bread that you have already deprived with your unbalanced policies? You won't be asked for any permission. Be sure. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your choice to disappear every opposite view leads to a clear violation of the fundamental constitutional right of assembly. This violation also entails a number of violations of freedom of speech, expression of opinion, the exercise of social and individual rights and claims. So you will remain in history - we will say it, and we will say it again - because it is identical to the 1971 Decree, so you will remain the government that after the junta, legislated to suppress the struggles of the citizens of the new generation, forgetting that democracy was founded on struggles, that individual freedoms were guaranteed, that social rights were strengthened. In order not to omit it, because I want to say it, it seems how much New Democracy colleagues support the bill. Look, two-three are in the Chamber tonight to support, as they said, an emblematic bill. This alone shows your nakedness and that you cannot support this bill. It would be a pity, of course, not to mock the Greek people with arguments, suggestions and pretexts of freedom of movement, the preservation of citizens, the protection of society and property. It is clear that you are seeking to consolidate your authoritarian governance model. It is the physical continuity of the policy of your state of staff, which in every way and in every scratch of the system is glowing any opposite view, any reaction. On the pretext of traffic abuse, I would say - public gatherings and demonstrations - are banned. You are rushing to take care of and become beforehand - and you are telling us about the social reactions that will be intensified. Because Mr Chrysochidis also had a question. He said: 'Where did you see that we ban concentrations?' You prohibit them in advance. If you read it, you will see it, but I think - another colleague said it - that you have not read the bill. So all these reactions will be intensified in the next few months because of the suffocation you are causing with your policy on the economy and not just. Why, are you afraid of mobilizations? Why do you want to put a brake on the strikes and the free expression of the citizens, since, as you say, the normality, the Greek people, after the disastrous rule of SYRIZA, began to prosper, growth hits our door every day? Now listen. No matter how much you hide, no matter how much the communication orchestra from the democratic-unbiased, I would say, I media - saves you temporarily. Whatever bills you vote on, democracy in the country has deep roots and is not destroyed. The answer you will get from the citizens, who are daily sending to unemployment, from the poorer people you are making, from farmers and farmers, who are not in support, because of the coronary, cannot survive, from the missing heroes, as you said, but you left them out of the benefits for heavy and unhealthy, from the whole educational community, which has taken them many years back from those who have learned to devour. But when the mass stops - and it will stop, because the margins are tightening and narrowing, because the readyness you have found is over - and they will be in front of you. Of course, you will also get the answer from the new generation, which, since you have done away with every legal concept every day, you are trying to squeeze them out and put them on the margin from the food - tourism workers, who are deceiving them every day, from the thousands of unemployed who have created in a year and started and sent them back to the masses. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, through this bill you are not just looking at the democratic rights and freedoms of citizens. You are going through a pessimistic and pessimistic message to young people: It is forbidden to claim, defend, disagree. You just have to comply with the decisions of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you try to fade the Greek people, to violate rights and freedoms conquered by sacrifices and struggles of our people, you will not succeed. You will find us across the street, you will find against all the workers whose working rights you have already started to trespass. You will find against you the insured and pensioners, the citizens who see the dramatic contraction of their incomes, the unemployed and all the vulnerable groups, treated by your Government as a burden of society and not as an integral part. You will find the young people on the streets and claim a better education system. In fact, Minister, what are you going to say on Friday - I mean, after the vote - that you will vote on the bill, I do not know with whom other colleagues, the drivers of tourist buses, the food - tourism workers, who already have ten days of strike, ten days of strike? What for? For you are incapable of giving expansion to their contracts, which, of course, SYRIZA, "bad SYRIZA", had given. We're talking ten days of strike. What are you gonna tell them? Not complaining? What else can you tell them after ten days? Those people you had with 800 euros two and a half months. You do not know either from poverty or from hunger, as you do not know where a person you have deprived him of the opportunity to live with basic dignity. As long as you vote, the people you lead them daily in impoverishment cannot fade them. We will be with them, be with them, be with them, beside society, squares, streets, the gatherings of all those who fight for democracy and social justice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr Vardakis, for the time. Ms Maria Konnaka has the floor now from the Communist Party of Greece. You have the floor, my colleague, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. It could be said that today's bill is the preparation of the government for the new wave of popular mobilisation that you know very well and you fear it will erupt, as long as the consequences of the new round of crisis and the deep anti-grassroots measures that you have legislated against workers and the populace are manifested. But this bill is much more than that. It has the look both in the present and in the future. It aims to strike every radical thought with preventive restrictive measures. It aims mainly at the movement that does not just react to an anti-grassroots package. It aims at the class movement that marks the heart of this system and seeks to overthrow it. You don't hide it anyway. It runs all the logic of the bill, but it is unequivocally reflected in the unacceptable Article 19. You create an address for prevention of violence to deal with radicalisation - you say - which you are smuggling with adequate forms of violence, domestic, racial, intra-school violence. This is an address in which state and non-governmental authorities will participate, from secret services to non-governmental organisations, private bodies, lobbys and forums, in order to intervene by preventive means, in schools, universities and elsewhere to slander, criminalise, put tombstones on any progressive thought that disputes and resists the barbarity of your system. That's what you're aiming for, isn't it? Isn't that the distraction? These are, of course, not excessive scenarios, as the ministers say, when we draw attention to these dangers, the responseary amendments to the Criminal Code, with which the so-called 'terrorist' has already been strengthened in line with the European directives that identify radical movements with terrorism. The "terror" of course does not only support the New Democracy and the Change Movement. Albato left him behind, and SYRIZA strengthened him. You jointly support this reactionary ideological background that the European Union systematically builds, including in its public texts and decisions as a risk to the security of the Union in public protests - a risk of radicalism! - on the basis of which communist parties and young people come out of the law, bans are laid down for the actors of the movement. You are well attached to this skateboarding and you have all taken your medals. Who did, in fact, a peculiar offence against the auctions by opening the way to such bans and criminalisation based on the aim of mobilisation? Are these excluded from your democratic concerns, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Today the New Democracy is coming to generalize the possibility for other purposes not to be tolerated for the demonstrations. When you name the mobilisations in the courts, what prevents the New Democracy from saying is there a ban on any mobilisation in public services? Indeed, Minister, a union, workers who want to protest to the Minister of Labour about life-threatening measures, where should they find him if not at the Ministry? In the lobbys that are being co-existd and met with BSE and business? But there's also another continuity that the New Democracy has found to walk. Who has, in fact, brought the restrictions on the right to strike by learning about minority groups which have been afflicting majorities, all that I am dancing in today repeats government officials and various media willing men and women for days? Of course, they do not say a great deal about the real suffering and insecurity caused by the majority of the people to smash wages, the smashing of pensions, rights, the carving, the anti-grassroots policy with which you devastate the majority of the people to reap a sloppy minority, a handful of parasites that all of you serve, living from the wealth produced by workers. These are the ones that close the micromass and the center of Athens and the districts and the province that are not flooded by demonstrations. The dismissal of redundancies prevents workers from going to work and not the mobilizations. The same thing is heard by the other arguments with which you accompany the bill that, in fact, this concerns the small demonstrations of the 50 and 100 people and you do not intend to limit - you say - the mass mobilisations. Really, where does this come from in the bill? And even when his own inspiration, Mr. Kamines, as mayor of Athens, asked for this restriction of demonstrations in 2010, during the period before the memorials when thousands of workers, thousands of people were on the streets against the orchid of anti-grass measures. Were the minorities of the fifty and a hundred people bothering you then? Of course, it does not change the core of the bill mainly as a mechanism for terrorising and manipulating popular consciences with the rounds and institutional fiancés that KINAL claims to justify his return to the crime scene. Because against this common enemy you are making tiresome even the basic principles of civil law that you all have "Greek". What is right - not to say what logic - to have the defendant organiser of the demonstration the burden of proving that he is 'not an elephant' to get rid of the objective civil liability to compensate anyone who invokes a damage done throughout the territory on the day of mobilisation. In this way, you are putting the pioneer fighters at the forefront of those who seek their moral, political and economic extermination with long-term judicial struggles. What fairness is this based on? There has not been a slander that you have made through all these years, identifying popular mobilisations with actions that not only come from the movement but which are directly directed against it, which are being used to suppress it, you are now coming to legalise this provocative game, for which no government has seen and heard nothing about the known - strangers and the other young children who are now recognising, even opening up the urge to multiply the motives for such moves. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, let me ask you a question that tortures a large part of the islands, because you have shown great sensitivity to the compensation of citizens from the disasters, Minister. When you sent MATs as an Occupational Army to suppress the grand mobilizations on the Flevaris islands, when with a shine, they burned the forest, broke whatever cars they found in front of them to terrorize the thousands of people who came out against your unacceptable policies, who took the bourgeois responsibility for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u420	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u421	I shall conclude, Mr President. You see, in this case the mechanism was visible. It may not have been found guilty of civil liability, but you have been indebted, if anything, to political responsibility. What police authority would then have to give permission to these mobilisations? No law, no ban can put in molds the popular indignation it inflames, can stop the organized popular movement that will send both your laws and the system that you defend against the unquestions of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u422	Thank you. Mr. Harris Kastanides from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u423	Ladies and gentlemen, the first question we need to answer is whether there should be an implementing law under Article 11 of the Constitution. The answer is, of course, yes. It takes executive law to define in the best possible way the regulation of a registered right. Implementing law should keep a balance between the fundamental right of the human assembly publicly and freedom of movement, as well as the normality of socio-economic life. This balance must be made using means that respect the principle of proportionality. In other words, the use of media should not be narrowed, marginalised and reduce the constitutional right to public meeting while, at the same time, we take precedence to protect public order and socio-economic life. Is the principle of proportionality respected in the draft law proposed by the Government? Answer: No. The principle of proportionality is not respected, despite the steps taken by the Minister for Civil Protection with improved legislative proposals. I'll explain that. At first, the police had only her exclusive right to ban a meeting. The step shall be taken and added, in order to prohibit a public meeting, the assent of the President at first instance. It adds, however, the Minister for Civil Protection: If the President does not deliver an opinion on the first instance, twenty-four hours before the meeting then this is considered to be a presumption in favour of banning the meeting. Minister, there is a need to respect our legal culture and the basic principles of our legal system. When you regulate, as the Minister himself states, the protection of the right to'summer', the presumption always works in favour of the right and never against it. Similarly, in the Procedure, take the Criminal Procedure, our criminal system, there is no presumption of guilt, there is a presumption of innocence. In this case, then, we have a first surprising reversal of the common and legal logic. If the President of the Court is silent or fails to reply, his consent to the prohibition shall be presumed. Secondly, it remains the decisive right of the police alone to decide on public meetings that will be subject to restrictions. No one's assent is required. Restrictions should not change the identity of concentrations - be careful, the wording is not mine - nor their character. You are far away from the Venice Commission. There is no choice between you and the Venice authorities. None. The Venice Commission - it is the European Commission for Democracy Through Law, which is the Commission of the Council of Europe - in 2010, has already declared that it cannot violate the principle of proportionality by restricting the nature and meaning of a public meeting. And the Venice committee adds as an example: such a change of character occurs when even the meeting place is changed. You said culprits, 'we demand the presence of the prosecutor in the dissolution of the concentration and his assent'. I'm sure you've approached the law. When the police decide to dismantle an ongoing public meeting, it means that there are already manifestations of lawlessness and violence. You don't need the prosecutor's consent. It is the police's responsibility under the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure to intervene, for example, to prevent threats to life. Next one. What constitutes a decisive restriction on the right to a meeting? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I come down, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u424	No, go on and close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u425	What constitutes a decisive restriction? Civil liability. The organiser is appointed civilly to pay compensation when, for example, we have losses in a shop. It is chosen by the Ombudsman on behalf of the Police or the Port Corps, it takes all the measures, but he must prove himself that he has indeed taken all the measures as restrictive as referred to in Article 4. If, in other words, a owner seeks civil compensation for damages caused by an owner's property, he must not bear the burden of proof, but the organiser himself must prove that he has taken appropriate and necessary measures. We still have a reversal of legal logic. It is also in civil law and in criminal law that the person with the responsibility for proof is the one who initiates proceedings against him or her if he or she is an association of persons. Who naive Greek will decide to mortgage his incomes, knowing that he can be called to pay if he cannot prove that he has taken all the necessary measures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u426	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u427	Let him talk. Is it annoying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u428	If, Minister, an organisation cannot be ensured, it means that the concentration does not have legality. I'm coming back to Venice. It says the Venice Commission: If there is no early notification by the organisers, a public meeting cannot be prohibited. That's what the Scientific Council tells you. You insist. You will be banning it, because you specifically anticipate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u429	Colleague, we've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u430	Well, I will make a final proposal, Mr President. I have always been aware that circumstances are increasing and the substance is prevented. That is why you do not respect the principle of proportionality. I would add something that I supported in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Point 201 of the Venice Commission states explicitly: The supervision and control of what is happening at public meetings - is independent monitoring - must be carried out by independent authorities, such as the indigenous umbudsman, what I have proposed for the Citizens' Counselor. Point 201 of the Venice Commission. Unfortunately, you insist on your position. I'm closing, Mr. President. There is a major political issue concerning the government. For the first time, the Constitution of 1975 was institutionalised as a decisive operational factor in democracy. The institutionalisation of the political party as a decisive factor in the functioning and protection of the democratic culture has never been questioned in the cycle of post-multi-population. You do it. Because it is also foreseen that the concentrations of the political parties are subject to your bans, restrictions and commitments to define a urbanly responsible person. Conservative but fragile Dendias when signing e.g. 120/2013 noticed institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Comrade, we've reached nine minutes. Please very much, because you will all be invoked after time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u432	I hope they're invoking me for other reasons. I shall conclude, Mr President. So he said Mr. Dendias: 'I impose restrictions on concentrations, but I am not counting on the arrangements of the political parties represented in the House, the trade union organizations and the anniversary events'. You insist on the opposite, challenging the functioning of the democratic culture and the political institutions. You question the hard core of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u433	Mr Colleague, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u434	I must tell you that you are too far away from democratic conception.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u435	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we should not call after Mr Kastanidis for time, but for what he has said. So the time will be back in six minutes. Mr. Dimitrios Haritou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. I am very pleased that I am succeeding with the previous Member on the excellent political documentation against the bill that you have tabled, ladies and gentlemen of the government. But I would like to make a comment before I speak about the bill. I also have a commitment to the institutions and society in the region to table their unequivocal opposition to the closure of the Nymfaia border station by decision in substance of Mr. Hardalia's Ministry. Access to the most tourist destinations in the region is essentially cut off from millions of northern visitors. Crime is being committed to tourist development and the local economy. A winter economy that was expected to restart from tourism, is now being destroyed mainly because of your untrustworthiness, lack of planning and decisions that produce injustices, which instead of supporting a particular region, such as Thrace, lead to deterioration. Who are you going to convince, gentlemen, that the choice to keep Promahona open was made with purely epidemiological criteria? The decision, gentlemen, to keep only one gateway to your northern border has dictated it to strong economic interests that want other destinations to direct the northern visitors. It is confirmed that you are hostages of the great economic interests, as gentlemen are hostages of the evil past of the Right, to return to the bill we are discussing today. I wonder, what is the point of resurrecting legal orders from the junta? The problems you are supposed to solve have already been regulated by the existing legislative framework. You are not aware of the presidential decrees, nor of the 141/1991, which - if necessary - which are banned on mergers for reasons of public security, nor of course, 120/2013, which regulates the way the protesters are moving so that economic and social life is not disrupted. That is the reality that we put to you. What curses and what analogies the Minister was talking about a while ago? Will you at last explain to us why you are going to this reactionary construction that actually criminalizes political and social life, which wants to put workers' struggles in plaster and finally wrestle society? If you think, gentlemen, that you have found the opportunity you were looking for, after a period of fear and insecurity that has passed because of a pandemic, society is making a huge mistake. You're very laughed if you think you're going to be horrific and conservative reflexes. The opposite is going to happen. The democratic forces of our society will be released. If, gentlemen, with the reactionary arrangements you want to symbolize the force, the doctrine of the "law and order" that I hear from many of your speakers, copy the junta in a more authentic way. Emblems, swords, obelisks as symbols of power scattered in the territory of the country. Make one here in the Constitution, so we can never forget you. The Prime Minister of the country where he is found and where he stands is seen to enjoying his trust in the Greek people. If so, if you are so sure of who you are afraid of, who do you feel you are threatening, that you want strict criminal provisions, regulations even for those who do not comply with the suggestions? What scares you and you want the people captive? As much as you're trying to hide it, you're only shaking the idea of the anger that your policies will cause in the Body of Greek society. You want to prevent the anger of the people, limit their reactions. That's why you don't hesitate to turn us back to us in the first post-military years of hard-right. But I would remind you, gentlemen, that the great democratic upturn of our people has been followed. You want, gentlemen, to send out a message to the strong economic interests that support you that with your policies you are not only undermining the work, but also doing what goes through your hand to feel safe after you are making sure that the workers are handcuffed. You blindly close the eye in the commercial world, in the middle class that it is not your policies that are dismantling it, but the workers, that is, their customers who claim income for consumption. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, you want as an exception to restore the obsessions and guilts that are burdening you and haunting you from the past of the hard right, the allergy and disrespect you have shown for every great mobilisation of our people, the defamation and incrimination of the great democratic struggles of our people. And I am sincerely sorry gentlemen of the leadership of the Change Movement that you once again become the laundry to launder her sins an unrepentant right. I am voting against the bill with full consciousness that you are opening a slippery and dangerous road to democracy. As you do, you compete with the neighbour's president who is threatening to close the social media. Look out, gentlemen, if you'll finally imitate him in this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u437	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u438	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u439	We are here for a long time witnessing an inappropriate behaviour by colleagues who do not do anything self-critic about what they have done and who, by using legislation, both the junta and the previous governments - which they blame - have come to the ban on events and demonstrations and in September 2017 as well as in January 2019 by police decisions. And instead of saying a word and doing a self-critic, they're atone of a bunch of clothes -- so they're called in my village -- thoughtlessness, saying that leadership, one another. Look, gentlemen. We have a decision from the Group of the European People's Party. The resolution by the Group of the European People's Party calls for an amendment to be tabled, which has all the points that you have already applauded. So I say to you: will you vote on the amendment we will be tabling tomorrow, or are you laughing at your face? All the points that Mr Kastanidis said earlier are included in the amendment. So say that and let go of the quacks and the insults. We do not accept insults from the people who voted 50 plus one in the strike, who voted for the retreat, who have brought remembrance from the time of the flawless memory of the New Democracy Minister of Labour, reinstated the retreat in the legislative framework, which had been abolished since 1982 by the law of PASOK. So tomorrow, I will see you if you support the amendment that we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u440	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Triantafylides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u441	Thank you, Mr President. The voice of the relentless before the Criminal Law, Mr Giannis Manoledakis, to fight to tackle the impossible to experience the incomprehensible, I think that we are being fully confirmed and confirmed, as this incomprehensible is described in this debate and in the committee and today in plenary. Toxicity everywhere, just as the professor of Labour Law describes, Mars Kazakos. Toxicity in industrial relations. In order to eliminate the reasoned dismissal, workers shall become workers at the hands of the greedy employers. Toxicity in the functioning of the institutions, which are underestimated, devalued, despised. Toxicity in State, society, media. In fact, the media started to return the money and the funds that the well-known list of Pechas gave them to obviously save their credibility. Toxicity here in the hard core of human rights. What do we have to do with other witnesses? Here we go. The Scientific Committee of Parliament says: Limitation of the right of assembly. Following the Scientific Committee, the plenary session of lawyers throughout the country: Anti-constitutional ban on demonstrations. The Association of Prosecutors: Unconstitutional the provision for the presence of the prosecutor in the protests. And a moment ago, Harry Castanides proved to be a mule of weighting. You're parking one with the other. Anything you give with one hand takes it back. And you have described it very clearly, the revenge of this particular person, so that you do not say bubble and you are feeding - at least from this Chamber, from other screens, you can do so - with fairy tales of the Greek people who start and understand. That's all it was! The National Committee on Human Rights concludes. I read only four series to you: "It is clear that the transfer of responsibility for the smooth running of the meeting to the citizen is constitutionally inconsistent, whereas in practice it can become a strong blocking factor in taking this role and an indirect restriction on exercising the right". That's what the National Commission for Human Rights says. The parties are across the street. Bodies, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, Scientific Committee, everyone is across the street. Has everyone been offended and described by these particular designations? When? On the days when Greece holds the Presidency of the Council of Europe, where I have the honour of the SYRIZA MPs to co-operate and form the Greek National Representation from May to September in the Presidency of the Council of Europe, which was at the time of the junta of the withdrawal of democracy, where secretly prisoners at the EBRD and the Macronisia sent the messages and actually asked for the voice of free Greece to be heard by the Council of Europe. And now it is time that Greece has the Presidency of the Council of Europe to pass this abortion. And we told you in committee that it is not improving, that it is not amended. Remove it. The weighting - balancing that is supposed to be done is irrelevant. What do you want? What do you claim? Silence of lambs. Cemetery silence. Slowly, the country sleeps why? Because he's coming, as I told you in committee. At the end of the tunnel there seems to be a light, but it is not the engraving of the new day, it is the headlights of the train of recession and unemployment that comes at you, at the door of us, and the Greek people are aware of this, who, in essence, what are you calling on him to live? Stay at home. We live at home to experience the propaganda that tells you: You have money. He'll tell you every Saturday and Sunday the Ear with Brutsi: you have money. And the poor retired man will be looking in his pocket and he won't find any money. You have money, look good in the pocket, you'll find the money. And when he dares to say, "I'm not going out to protest, to say my pain, to call my request, my question?" there will be the spear, the clubs, shields, tear gas, the MAT to prevent. So, what's he telling you? He tells you this, to remember my youths, said by brothers Catsmiths in a song: "For a piece of bread it is not just your body, it is not just your job. The most important thing is your soul, man. They're gonna kick you and you're gonna like it, man." This is what you seek to do, humiliate, level out the man who wants to formulate his differential, his viewpoint, his perception. And we have told you and all colleagues that you should use it and say, "Buy, Syrians, are you invoking a 1991 Presidential Decree?" But then it was Mitsotakis. Call 2013? But then it was Dendias, right government. Are you invoking our own projects?' And instead of saying that, you take away and say that these are insufficient, because with these two presidential decrees out here in Queen Sofia we have seen unions, unions, federations formulating on the sidewalk. But, there, you insist on propaganda, the thirty - forty who close the streets. And it wasn't those agencies I told you about. The President of the GSEE and the President of the ADED said to us Mr Chrysochoidis. He has no right to invoke them. But inconsistently we call for opinions, we are discussing opinions. This is the joy of dialogue, debate, of the joint search for the National Representation to discuss perceptions and positions. But are all six bodies in front of you? And they were offended? And these are SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u442	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u443	What did Mr. Pidas and Mr. Panagopoulos say to you? That you didn't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u444	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u445	I shall conclude and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. You didn't call the CED. You put a partner, the mayor will be asked, and the mayor's representatives have not come to express their views. They told you that if the law were to apply - and one president of civil servants and the other of private officials - we would have a thousand years in prison as organisers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Comrade, don't thank me again. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u447	I'm closing, Mr. President. You will allow me to say that. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u448	Yeah, but hang up. We've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u449	I owe it, you owe it to us, and we all owe it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u450	I owe no one anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u451	I walked my humility as one of the three hundred colleagues from Mavili Square along with the four thousand health professionals, nurses from OAED programs, who have been renewed their contracts since 2016, assistant doctors, doctors who do not incorporate them into heavy unhealthy. You went to the balconies hypocritically and applauded them. Which is hypocrisy! We went together and walked all the Queen Wisdom...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u452	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u453	I'll be done. I'd say one more phrase!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u454	Say it! Say it! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u455	You applauded them from the balconies, promised them simulation, integration into heavy and unhealthy ones, and that is not the case. The decision, therefore, is clear: you, with the state, with the society, you with the gulls, armoured and breeze, we with the ideas, opinions, perceptions, proposals, with the perpetrators of the people's movement. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u457	Will you arrest us? It will be heard and written in the Minutes. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u458	Mr. Comrade, please, you've reached nine minutes! Please, you've reached nine minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u459	What are you gonna do? Will you arrest us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u460	Here, Mrs. Aegir, you're next. Please stay a while in time, too. To God, I haven't heard you, but a phrase from Mr. Triantafylides made three minutes to complete it. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that today we will go to Mr Nicholas Manolakos, New Democracy, to have an image. Here, Mrs. Aeger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u461	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Government, I will begin my speech from what Mr Kastanidis has finished, and you are a long way from democratic perception. And I will paraphrase this phrase of the speech of the Deputy Thessaloniki of the Change Movement, which I believe was a lesson of democracy to all, saying that the New Democracy celebrates a year of governance, but democracy is not celebrating. Why is it possible to debate here in democratic terms - it is supposed - times a flagrant anti-constitutional bill, with which New Democracy is attacking the regulated constitutional right of assembly? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the Scientific Council of Parliament itself told you so. His opinion was once again a catapult, as it was, and when you tried to call citizens not as witnesses, but as suspects in the pre-review committee. But once again, your ears have not been founded either by the opinion or by the objection of unconstitutionality. And the legislative improvements you made in some articles are only a fig sheet to cover the constitutional nakedness of this legislation. And it is to wonder how you did this, while you have prominent constitutionalists in your party and government, such as Mr Gerapetritis. In fact, the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament refers to a collective volume, which Mr Gerapetti had the scientific supervision. This is where the word "teacher you taught, but no offense law". So, what happens when the Prime Minister's close partner, Mr. Gerapitris, returns to university headquarters? Will he teach as unconstitutional the law that he passed as Minister? And I will read to you the relevant quote: "The right to a meeting is not subject to a permit, announcement or preventive control by the police, as was done in abnormal times before. Furthermore, the failure to notify the meeting to the authorities does not render the meeting illegal. In theory, disclosure of the meeting to the authorities is subject to the authority of the organiser and body of the right. The Constitution also protects spontaneous meetings as long as Article 11 of the Constitution does not distinguish.’ This is an extract from the Scientific Council's report with reference to the collective volume of which Mr Gerapetti has the supervision. However, it seems, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, according to Mr Chrysochoidis, the Greek Police are more constitutional than the Professor of Constitutional Law, Mr Gerapititi, who other oversees as Professor of Constitutional Law and others legislates and votes as Minister of Government Majority. So we're coming to talk here today, what? Another institutional misappropriation of Mr Mitsotakis' government, where, in order to protest against the government, you must obtain permission from the government itself? Is that how the so-called state works? By laws cut and sewn to its measures or laws which the same does not ultimately comply with, as in the case of officials who do not even have formal qualifications, as does the law provide for the position appointed specifically and fully? From this Chamber we have repeatedly denounced these institutional diversions of the New Democracy, culminating in what is unthinkable by the majority in the pre-examination committee for the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. I take pre-examination to emphasise that the New Democracy is attempting an unprecedented reversal of roles in public life. It turns the defendants into honorers, the persecuted persecutors, the black white ones, and now it turns the protesters into criminals. Despite the racing effort and provoking of the Minister of Civil Protection, whatever means it comes out and above, what is done these days will be written black on the pages of Greek political history. It is not surprising, however, that the New Democracy chooses to attack the constitutionally guaranteed right of assembly. It is not only that it expects strong reactions - and colleagues from SYRIZA have also said so - from autumn onwards, the attempts of your anti-government and anti-government policy that leave thousands to unemployment and precariousness and the economy to a free fall are that ultimately the generation of the Right in this place is undisturbed and continuous. The neoconservative party of the country is synonymous with authoritarianism, a lasting and persistent attempt to oppose oligarchic interests against the public interest and social rights. And don't tell us again who brought democracy into the modern history of the country, because democracy in the country was brought to it by the struggles of the citizens, the institutions, the movements and the collectives. It was never a man's principle of democracy, how much more of New Democracy's far-right relocations today give the mark of its political interventions. I listen very carefully to the serious arguments on each side. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will try to shorten. The argument that New Democracy is again trying to win the impressions is the so-called few who are upsetting the lives of many, the silent majority, as it claims. You once again demonstrate your obsession with social automation, this thing to turn one social group at the expense of the other, against the other. No citizen who wants to come down spontaneously in a demonstration in the center of Athens does want to trouble or destroy property. You and your privileged interlocutors are responsible for this unacceptable stereotype with which you make the political argument. But you only cultivate this stereotype when it comes to demonstrations involving social conquests and rights. But when the Mayor of Athens, I have a family right, he decides to make over - down the capital, then the world is not inconvenience. When it comes to vehicles for official use, then people are not inconvenienced. It can also be found beaten and beaten, like in the case of Michalakopoulou that you buried.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u462	Madam Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u463	I'll finish very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u464	I hope so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u465	Yeah, give me ten seconds to finish. I would like to point out this: if it is to pass - and I am closing with this - these provisions in relation to the organizers, those responsible on the part of the protesters, then why, respectively, is there not a police officer, who is civilly responsible, such as the organiser? To know who is responsible for the excessive violence and arbitrariness of police officers, who are behind orders and usually inexistently. Who will be responsible for the law? Who will have the bourgeois responsibility for the overuse of wood, chemicals, the permeation and humiliation of demonstrators? Will the Minister for Civil Protection himself be himself? The substance of the case - and I am ending with it, Mr President - is that the New Democracy rebuilds the authoritarian state of the memorials, but it sees imperials and resistances that it did not expect. He thought he took a white order, thought that SYRIZA would let her perpetuate to institutions and society. He thought the world was a given, but that's not it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Ioannis Paschalides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another implementation of the Government's basic commitment to preventing violence and safeguarding the basic individual and social constitutional rights of citizens who are often severely and irreparably affected by public meetings. Today's political leadership found the courage to legislate self-evidently, finally regulating an issue that all the post-government governments avoided, not to be blamed as authoritarian, as the authoritarian author, Mr. Alivizatos, mentioned in his relevant article. The evidence of the Greek Police demonstrates the multitude of demonstrations made every year and often provokes the indignation of the citizens, while there are few times that demonstrations have been the occasion of delusional and legal acts. It is characteristic that over three thousand marches and gatherings were held throughout the country during 2019, where nearly a hundred thousand police officers were released. And every day, about a hundred and fifty with two hundred policemen on average for monitoring and safeguarding the paths, while the center of Athens remains closed on average about three times per working day, with data from the Athens Commercial Association. So at the time when the right to public meeting and protest is being exercised unnecessarily, the suffering of the citizens and the fall in the turnover of commercial shops is huge, creating a serious disturbance in the socio-economic life of the place. Thus, in the light of the protection of public security and the safeguarding of the right of assembly of citizens, this legislative framework, on the one hand, establishes the obligation to notify the public outdoor meeting to the local police or port authority concerned in a timely manner by its organiser. However, it should be stressed that if a meeting is not disclosed, it does not become illegal on that ground alone. The key roles of the organizer of the concentration, as well as the mediator on the police side, are among the main axes of this draft law. The organiser is a link between the members and the state, that is to say, the person expressing the views of the first, but he is also the one who accepts to assume any responsibility for them vis-à-vis the state, but also those of third parties who have suffered damage to life, physical integrity, ownership of them by the participants in the public meeting, responsible for compensation. This will be exempted if it has notified the meeting in good time and proves that it has taken all necessary and appropriate measures to prevent and prevent damage. Article 8 sets out the conditions under which restrictions may be imposed at an imminent or ongoing public meeting. Among these are the occupation of part of the road or the partial diversification of the route, the expulsion of persons from the assembly, as well as measures against blocking access to a public service, public utility organisations and nursing establishments. The winding-up of a meeting shall be referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 9, specifying clearly and clearly the circumstances in which it is possible, and in particular where the participants do not comply with the limitations imposed on it or where criminal offences are committed. In the same article, reference is made to the means which the police authorities may use to implement its decisions, in which the principle of proportionality has been strictly respected and, of course, in which all possibilities for voluntarily complying with the participants have been exhausted. The decision of the Ministry of Civil Protection establishes a special website offering in advance, but also in real time, information to citizens about planned future or current events, marches and related traffic arrangements. The information will be constantly feedback through interaction with the involvement of the competent authorities and citizens, in order to facilitate their complete movement. The bill also provides for the establishment to the Ministry of Civil Protection of an independent service called the Directorate for Prevention of Violence under the Directorate for Strategic Prevention of Violence. To conclude, I would like to stress that the new legislative framework under no circumstances affects the freedom of the individual and the right of assembly of the citizens, and that there is no limit to his purpose, apart from the peaceful meeting. However, this right is defined in such a way as to guarantee at the same time the exercise of basic constitutional rights for all citizens who face daily chaotic situations and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u468	Thank you. Mr Aylonite has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr President. It was just us and us in plenary. Minister, I would ask you to tell the Minister who is absent that there was PASOK Minister when he had Chief Andrea Papandreou, who was the body of the democratic party at the time. You can tell Mr Chrysochoid that the democratic party has manned politically. It has now been chosen by your party, namely the government that members of the junta are members, to implement this bill here. So I start my position to show exactly what role Mr Chrysochidis has been playing. I would like to remind Mr Chrysochoidis, but also the House - I have told him from this step by step - that this is where the city was formed outside with gatherings and meetings in Syntagma Square. Here, just down here, it was in December and so many people were killed, and we drove to the civil war. Here the protesters called '1-1-4' down here. More than that, people fell into demonstrations of the democratic world, were killed in the polytechnic marches. We've lived through these situations. Have you imagined - so it comes to my mind now - if these gatherings were the case with your bill, that they would be chasing for civil and criminal claims the Chief, the President of the FAO, the secretary of any party that was protesting outside the House? How did our political system become? Please tell me how it turned out. It was formed through constant tensions, marches, protests. And you come here with this constitutionally guaranteed right to restrict it? Right here in the middle is the parliamentary group of the Change Movement. I followed Mrs Giannakopoulou and Mr Kegeroglu. All of them spoke to SYRIZA's side. In the same group of positions, however, Mr Kastanides was also present. Excellent portrayal of legal and political criticism of your bill. Excellent. And you're told by someone who's passed his life on the benches of the courts. Excuse me. When a constitutional right, such as the right to meet in Article 11 of the Constitution, is guaranteed, the joint legislator comes to restrict or protect it. This is a basic rule of defending individual rights and is the core of the democratic constitution. We're protecting one. They asked you if you read what lawyers say. It's Mr. Chrysochoid's lawyer. Have you read what the prosecutors say? They told you before. Those people who have long been interpreting the Constitution, who are struggling for the application of the Constitution and for the protection of the individual freedoms you are putting them in? Do you throw them out of the way? Is that just the role of the government? Remember that Mr Chrysochoidis has abolished university asylum. Limits concentrations. You busted the media. That's not the opposite view. Remember now that I'm telling you. There will be legislation on social media. That's the reality. So you won't stay in the government? You're staying in the government when you do social policy. What do you fear and institutionalize such legislation? I honestly wonder, tonight that we are so few in the House Hall, the spiritual world of the country, which is, when it is shattered today, hit the core of the Constitution that is the right to a meeting? I repeat. The right to a meeting is what has been exercised in Greece's political system. This is how democracy was shaped in Greece. A lot could be said about that. The only argument is that you have the brawls who pervade public order and cause damage to shops. The entire state does not have the power to protect the constitutional right to meet the protest assembly because there are some brawls. Do you form this institutional framework for why? What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of the assholes? Cumulative provisions in the Criminal Code give you the right during the demonstration to protect property, human life. Why don't you exercise those rights that the Greek state has, but you're going right backwards? To limit the right of Greek citizens to assemble. Watch something very important. What did Mr. Castanides say? He's legal. He said everyone's most important. That the political party itself, which today forms the democratic system, is likened to any concentration of fifty, forty, two hundred, five hundred, ten thousand. And the party's chief will also be bourgeois in charge if some hammerheads create any problem either in property or in human excellence. So this situation is trying to institutionalize the government of the excellent. This situation had to mobilise the Greek people tomorrow, out of here, in what I said earlier, outside the House of Parliament, outside this building. To protest, as the people and the movements used to protest and form the political system in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, too, for the time. Mrs Silver Scottra has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it took forty-four years to come to this Chamber the bill we are debating today. And, of course, only a government that is not afraid, Mr Colleague, of a bold government, as it is of Mr Mitsotakis, could settle. So Mr Chrysochoidis brings in the reformist and regulatory bill which introduces provisions in the country's legal order, as they apply in all the countries of the civilised world. The left parties usually react. They say, of course, what is known for preliminary dialogue, for the European Union's demands, for a repressive mechanism for criminalising the action of wrestling and conflict. This time, however, they have gone beyond them, ladies and gentlemen. We have heard about pigs, about fascist inspirations and other such nice things. The irony is that we have heard them from lips whose ideological payment refers to regimes of authoritarian and red junta, see Lenin, Stalin, Mao. What are you talking about? New Democracy? Where did the national ruler and founder of Constantine Karamanlis restore democracy in our homeland and legitimize the JRC? The Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who spent his childhood near his exile from his father junta, the late President Constantine Mitsotakis? The Minister of Chrysochoid, who went all his years - you said so - with the principles of social democracy? Or are you addressing the citizens who are not professionally anarchists or radicals protesting, but do they want to go to their work or shop to bring home a piece of money? Ladies and gentlemen, it would be reasonable and honest to welcome and praise today's bill, because it is the end of the 1971 Jun law. This law that you radical leftists have allowed him to exist for five and a half years. And not only that, but with all the left-hand sensitivity that it sees you, last January for the first time in history, the SYRIZA - ANEL persecuted farmers in Thessaly, for blocking communications, please, by short procedures and without their apology being preceded. Farmers and workers were also the ones who came out to protest and communicate their problems. Until recently, he was still afflicted in the courts. As you're interested in, that's all. Really, why in 2017 did you forbid WASH to protest? Was there a danger that the policemen, the guardians of the legal order, would commit crimes or crimes on their way? The farmers were finally right when they wanted to propose Mr Tsipras for the Nobel Peace Prize, the farmers wanted to propose it for Nobel self-expression and hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the core of today's bill? That democracy guarantees the widest possible freedom of all, not only those who want to protest. The freedom of one is limited to where his actions conflict with each other's freedoms. It fully respects the right to a public outdoor meeting, as enshrined in Article 11 of the Constitution. It goes without saying that this freedom must be exercised with a high sense of responsibility towards all citizens. Therefore, the exercise of the right to a meeting cannot restrict the freedoms, the daily activities of other citizens, nor, of course, the exercise of other constitutionally guaranteed rights, such as free access to work. Therefore, our debate should consider what is commonplace in most European countries, namely the right of assembly and the limits to be imposed to ensure equality and proportionality. Provision is made for the possibility of dismantling mergers on terms and conditions in the draft law. In particular, when there are grounds for public security and a threat of violence that can disrupt socio-economic life. And I ask: does not a favoured state have to weigh up the data and ensure public security and the smooth flow of work and the everyday life of all citizens? He reacts to the party of Officerial Response, stating perversely contrary to any arrangement. He refuses every debate and every effort to legislate. One issue that has been regulated, as I said before, by all the civilised countries here must remain intact, that the government does not guarantee a fundamental reform in the functioning of society, that the central roads of the cities are systematically closed - on average three days the centre is closed -, that there are squares and shops and the damage of hundreds of thousands of euros of euros for taxpayers and shoppers to be paid, that public services should be closed and that access to workers should be prevented. Generally, anyone they want, whenever they want, to make glasses of nails because that's what they want to do. And all of this, gentlemen of the counterpopulation? To get the kids out of here? Or why does it serve you to lovingly mock all those who cover this veil of lawlessness? We are all aware of the defenders of those who are brought into the GDR or the self-sufficient. Is that the definition of left-wing? What dictionary? North Korea? Ladies and gentlemen, let us put aside irrationalities and let us work together in a responsible way for the good of society as a whole. The tolerance of dealers, professionals, brokers, shopkeepers has been exhausted, since they are no longer able to withstand immunity, anarchy and disasters. It had to regulate the right to assemble as provided for in the Constitution, but with limitations. The New Democracy has been putting an end to the mess that has been arousing the country for many decades and has cost a lot to damage and human lives, such as the victims of Marfin. Under no circumstances does the law we introduce restrict or prohibit peaceful meetings - there are legal guarantees for this - only when there are cases of the break-up of public security and they become a diversion. I would conclude by saying that some should not hide behind the opposition rhetoric trying to cover the 'unknown strangers'. We proceed to specific, modern legislation that respects the Constitution. Minister, the opposition is attacking you, but the Greek society is waiting for this bill and is with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u472	Thank you. Mrs Gerovali has the floor for six minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u473	Of course, we were just restoring the unscrupulous theory of communism with fascism by Mrs. Skondra and everything that is needed to argue in favour of the also unscrupulous theory of both extremes. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the government, one year after your administration you bring a bill showing that you obviously decided in a strange way to celebrate New Democracy's one year of governance. Mr. Lebanese in his position on the objection of unconstitutionalism told us about evil Tsipras and mediocre Mitsotakis on the one-year anniversary. Of course you need to look after the Prime Minister's profile, it costs a lot - I understand that. Mr. Mitsotakis speaks eloquently and from below it all happens: circumvention of academic asylum, restore functionality and catechism in school life, abolish social and artistic life and put conduct! All this eloquently and tenderly! The para-state, the agency, even in this room, is being sanctified, to make political life - I think - one by one of your measures. The rapporteur, Mr Karagunis, has told us that forty-five years there has been lawlessness and you have now come to correct them. You understand what he is saying now: Transmigration has brought lawlessness and we have to turn behind the Transmigration, which, obviously, we all remember what it was. So in black times! Some are still nostalgic or do not understand that they are nostalgic. I don't know which one. A year ago, you have served to impose a new right, this extreme right that brought you to the government, pushes you and enough, and I think you're starting to get the voices pretty seriously. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what you have not succeeded in Revision of the Constitution is constantly attempting it through legislation and along the lines. After Article 16 today you also come for Article 11, namely the hard core of social rights and you are trying to achieve a reduction in the demonstrations. I think it is a great deal of stress and anguish to achieve it, so much that you are even undoing the supposed success of the doctrine 'law and order'. All the time. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, what happened to the film superproducts of repression, the beatings of children, residents, protesters - whoever is convenient! - Didn't they pay off that? Didn't you intimidate society enough? The Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, once wondered whether social issues would be fought with the police. That was once wondered by Mr Chrysochoidis. Today, how does the defensive line accept being forty-five years of lawlessness, to which Mr Karagunis refers? It has also been mentioned by other speakers. Put major and historical demonstrations on your mind, from 1-1-4, the concentrations for Cyprus, the concentrations of the students for Gregopoulou, the recent in America. A provocation in these demonstrations what would it mean? So these students and their families will be taken all their lives? I think that there is a real threat with this bill and, of course, civil responsibility for those who want to express themselves, those who want to react. You are burdening responsibility for things that can happen at any time and by definition cannot be controlled and, of course, instead of showing the state as a guarantor of rights, you are abolishing the State's guarantee responsibility towards the citizens. The main argument is that despite the brutal repression, chaos still exists in Athens and even a few protesters. In other words, you have been confessing to the complete failure of your policy for a year, you have not done anything else. I leave the Athenian center, I leave the pretext of the argument, and I ask why this kind of premiere? The committees have now been told by many speakers. Because you're afraid, ladies and gentlemen. Fear why you see social reaction coming near because of the economic disaster in which you drive the country, with your well-known endowed inability. Why do you see that the agents, parastate methods brought from the triplets of history and lying have very short feet. I would like to say to Mr Chrysochide that he will look very close to him. Here, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you can't move your finger. You will not find in us bracelets, prostates, "bouquets" that decorate the various legal watches, most recently the identification of cases. You won't find them in us. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, I think you are confessing to failure and fear and of course you cannot rob an entire people with the communication strategy, which, as we have seen, has also been soaking. Today she turns you money television channel, a big mass media group, denounces you for opacity. The deeper you drive the country the more you will fear the citizens and the more you fear the more politically more ruthless you will become. And colleagues, to answer a question Mr Kegeroglu's question - from the Members of the Change Movement, no one is here - leave these with the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u474	I'll tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u475	It's you, Mr. President, right. Leave the game with the amendments. This bill is not corrected and does not come into the balance with any amendment. The subject is much deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u476	Thank you for the time. You're unique in what you did. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u477	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, listening to some speakers from the opposition, he would think that we are living in a previous century, forty, fifty, sixty years ago, in times when democratic rights were questioned or even prosecuted. I think that this is really the problem, that some have remained in the previous century, that they are ideologically and politically fed by their hate rhetoric and the dangers of civilization and dictatorship. But let's get back to this bill. Has anyone questioned, Mr SYRIZA, because you are alone in the Chamber, by the Members of the New Democracy who have spoken today, the right of citizens to protest? Has anyone described the protesting citizens as an asshole? Of course not. After all, as the protest is the element of liberal ideology. It is liberal people who claim and fight. On the occasion of many things that have been heard from this wing, I would like to make a small historical point. The revolution of 1821 was not a class revolution, it was a liberation revolution, a national, liberal revolution of fighters and protesters of Greeks. I return to the bill again, after we have resolved this historic conflict that has been heard this morning. So, as I was saying, the protest is at the heart of our liberal ideology. Protesters and protesters are our partners and competitors, because they are struggling to improve their lives as well as the rest of the citizens. They are not our companions who are hating social struggles, causing loss of life and destroying public and private property. So today, with the bill brought by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, we are protecting those who want to protest peacefully from those who just want to make a mess. I told you a little earlier, but I don't know if you understood. We protect our comrades from your comrades. Colleagues, today what we are doing is a class choice. So let's make a case of work. Ten workers' clubs decide to hold a gathering, calculate the participants, define the guarding teams, if needed, ask the JRC which has a long-successful course on this issue, appoint the person responsible and submit their request. The request is approved, the site of the protest is defined, the various things they need are set. Create a little picture in front of you: citizens pedestrians or by car pass and see a organized, guarded, peaceful demonstration with pulse and tension. It is much more likely that they will feel solidarity for the protesters and they will certainly have greater respect for their demands than if they had to keep their heads from flying objects. It is called marketing, ladies and gentlemen, on the left. So the bill we are debating today and we will vote tomorrow preserves and highlights the social struggles. The technical and legal issues of the bill were analysed thoroughly and with absolute competence both by the Minister and previous Members of the New Democracy: the civil responsibility of the organiser, the criminal responsibilities, the police facilitator, the public prosecutor's decision to dismantle the concentration. There's no need for me to tire you any more. However, I would like to point out two very important provisions of the bill which I think have not been heard enough in this Chamber so that the Greek people can and will have them consolidated: the online information of citizens about the time and place of mergers and the treatment of mergers. On the one hand, online information helps not to be enclaved citizens where other citizens peacefully protest about their demands. On the other hand, anti-concentrations are historically one of the main reasons for violent incidents. The Left has been protesting for decades now. Aren't you going to vote for this provision? I wonder why. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, brought by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, supports it, except those who consider immunity. They do not support it by those who believe that the claim is made with trouble. It is not for those who are plundered to social anomaly, considering that this is how they are affected by the government in question. They don't want it for those who don't know what's wrong with molotovs. Minister, the government today unleashs the democratic protest from the micro-political exploitation in the only way it exists, by setting rules that will apply to everyone. Tomorrow we will vote for this law and call for it to be fully implemented without asterisks and rounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u478	Thank you for the time, Mrs Alexopoulou. Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u479	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the 21st century, the Greek society can't stand any more populism, can't afford to talk about the self-evidently negative actions of common sense, can't stand sterile confrontations with the conscious unconscious, unconscious ones, can't stand to run out of line with outdated logic, old perceptions, arteriosclerical actions, toxic behaviours, distortive ideas. The Greek society rejects those who have experienced within it, while the rights it ensures, at the same time abuse their obligations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, understand it. Greek society deeply democratically expects a government elected by clear procedures to implement its programme and at the same time expects the opposition to stop screaming for supposedly government junta that comes to scan everything. Finally, ending with the fairy tale of the so-called left moral advantage, but also more generally of the left arch, gentlemen of the Officerial Antipolitics, who everything that you don't like, you get used to baptizing it with punk and fascist. You don't have that right. And you do not have it, because in this way you insult the democratic conquests of all the Greeks, you slander the popular will, you slander the Greek citizen himself. So, with the draft law that we are discussing today, you have found the opportunity or rather you have taken it on your own, you have invented the opportunity, you have spoken about the dissolution of the democratic right of "conspiracy", about criminal laws restricting the assembly and the abolition of institutional guarantees, about a government that allegedly puts the police in front of it to relieve the public of its responsibilities and conflicts with the world and other captives. And as if this were not enough, you have again served in your favourite sport, that of the complete distortion of all natural reality and its replacement with a virtual, with an illusion that only in your mind becomes reasonable and present. You told us, in other words, that the bazaars do not in fact have any responsibility for the incidents in the demonstrations that devastate shops in the center of Athens. You also told us that the centre of Athens is not closed by the forty, fifty protesters, but by the operational plans of EL.AS. You also told us that the government brought this piece of legislation for communication purposes, in order to allegedly turn the lights of publicity elsewhere, instead of the fantastic hard measures of austerity that are coming. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, in every democratic state there is an inalienable rule that is that my rights should not be violated by others. And a city of four and a half million inhabitants, like a whole country, cannot be left to the mercy of the few who want to express their protests on the street without any rule and without any care to respect the vast majority, and most of all when these few are not always motivated by the least of the motives to express their objections, but seek to exercise their revolutionary gymnastics on the backs of the whole society, which they also trouble with their indifference. Circular chaos for nothing, incalculable lost labor hours for nothing, huge mental damage for nothing! Unjustified financial burden for professionals, especially in the center of Athens, also for nothing. Leave myths and populism. The bill does not ban protests, it simply regulates them to become operational, without insulting common sense and without playing with the nerves of millions of citizens. Make as many demonstrations as you want, but in order and with space based on proportionality. Nobody owes them the irrationality. Leave the crocodile tears. The bill doesn't dismantle all the concentrations. It only provides for the dismantling of cases of diversion and threatening lives and in order to protect public security. Don't you want public security? You want chaos? You want ruins? Do you want the lives and work of the many ballasts to be left in the moods of those who intrude in any demonstration with the sole purpose of breaking, burning and tearing down? Don't you want arrests of those who make the universe nail glasses? Because only they will be arrested, as it must do every state that respects itself. You don't want a firm reaction from the state to any organised vandal that will try to exploit a course to get its repulsive by force? You were supposed to be the first to want this, thereby protecting the right to protest. But as it turns out, even here hypocrisy goes too far. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. Don't you want there to be a responsible organizer talking to the police about the proper care of the protest? Don't you care about the potential scavengering of protest by anyone? Leave the hypocritical agony. You didn't come to the draft law to make suggestions. You came to just say "no", as you always do, "no" reaction to the reaction. the logic of the two poles, manhattan practices. You're against everything, because that's how you like it! And you are against everything, even when the government comes to converging and not deviating with some of the parties' positions. All in favour of democracy, all in favour of legitimacy, all in favour of citizens. This is the philosophy and commitment of the New Democracy. This was and will continue to be government practice towards the citizens of a country and a society that respects itself in the 21st century. Freedom, security, social rights, all in complete harmony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr. Tsavdaridis. It is now Mr Xenophon Baraliacos from New Democracy and will be followed by the Members. Vasileiadis and Manolakus to complete the process. Here, Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u481	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 May in a simple and particularly charged ceremony, in the presence of the majority of the political world, other than the left, the monument was revealed to the memory of the victims of the murderous attack on Marfin on the Stadium Street. It was completed ten years after the murder of three people and an unborn child, triggered by raw motives of hatred, inhumanity and idealism. Marfin's arson was the descendant of an uncontrolled anti-detector group who committed this horrific crime. Ten years later, the provisions of this bill come to a halt forever to the possibility of repeating such heinous crimes. They put an end to the tyranny of minorities who have for decades held hostage and entrepreneurial commitment of the majority of citizens, rampant public space, undermine fundamental rights, block access to transport and, in most cases, the destruction of property, vandalism of monuments and all kinds of unlawful activities. This bill places our country in the legal status of advanced countries and substantially shields the right to assemble. It introduces innovations and provides security folds, which ensure that the pace of living continues inevitably and harmlessly. Our Government is consistent with its pre-election commitments and faithful to the battlefield of our values and ideas, with legality, security, order and social peace. It chooses, in other words, to be consistent with the broad majority of Greek citizens. The Civic Opposition, on the other hand, remains entangled in its ideals and myths. The political time for SYRIZA is stuck a decade back on the "top" and "under" squares, in the mythology of the endless demonstrations and paths that paralyzed the country's social and economic life. It is even difficult today, having already ruled with catastrophic results for our country, to get rid of tight hugging with balls. He can't condemn the hoods. It insists on an inexpensive and populist rhetoric that is historically and politically outdated. Ladies and gentlemen, all these citizens understand that. That is why, in all polls and everywhere in the real society, citizens reward government manipulations. In these days, I have read an article by Mr Alivizatou, the top constitutionalist, who, as you know, does not belong to our party. Word to word contributors all your arguments to the legal level. It mentions features: “The right to assemble without restrictions is not recognized anywhere in the world. Everywhere concentrations are allowed to disintegrate when they develop into violent ones. Article 11 of the Constitution confers this responsibility to the police. Nothing shall, however, prevent, in respect of the preventive prohibition of a public meeting, the association of a judicial officer and, in the case of the dissolution in progress, not just the information, but the assent of the Advocate General, if present.’ For us, the legality and the protection of the legal order do not fit in ideological housing, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. Unlike your own reading, even peaceful gatherings with families and young children are considered by your side as hostile, they are dissolved with unreasonable violence and concise procedures. When protesters are simple, everyday people and stir Macedonia's Greekity, the right to the assembly goes for a walk. When bullies break civilian property and burn public property, you show proper sensitivity. Political hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, is over. It's time to choose with who you are. And with the balls and the civilians, it can't be. They're two worlds completely different, incompatible and unconnected. We know who we are, without half-writing and without asterisks. I would like to congratulate the Ministry's leadership of political consistency and boldness and not to retreat to the incontrovertible cries of counter-population, which remains entangled in its myths. We prioritise the overwhelming majority of the citizens, who are free and undivided to continue their lives and their everyday lives. The sense of security has returned and the outbreaks of lawlessness are neutralized. There is no security, and there is no security, without clear rules of legality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u482	Mr Vassilis Vassilidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are discussing today is entitled 'Public outdoor meetings and other provisions', but it could very easily be called 'Protecting public outdoor meetings'. I think that many times we are lost in the wording of articles and provisions and we fail to identify the substance of legislation. Without wanting to underestimate the letter of the law, it is important to examine the functionality behind the legislature. I'll explain what I mean, Mr. President. The main criticism of the Qualified Opposition and not only is that the draft law limits the right to assembly, that is, the constitutionally guaranteed right of citizens to hold peaceful gatherings, protests, events, etc., which the European Convention on Human Rights also enshrined, stressing once again the 'peaceful' right. But what is the essence of this right? But, of course, the communication of the matter that led to the meeting. In other words, to make society aware of the issue, to make public and, where appropriate, to lead to political decisions. It cannot be the purpose of a meeting or of a part of society. It cannot be the purpose of a meeting of the hostage of immobilised drivers or the provoking of economic costs to entrepreneurs and shoppers in a region to create political costs in the respective government. A peaceful meeting cannot produce, even indirectly, even limited, violent results, such as molotovs, material damage or deprivation of access to the workplace. That is what is happening today, ladies and gentlemen. In the eyes of society the right to assemble is threatened not by the current government, of course, but by years of work up to and including abuse, usually justified through an ideological framework revolutionary and anti-powerful against the government, whatever it may be, although for some years we have noticed that the anti-empty reflexes of the known space had been limited. That is why, Mr President, I am talking about protecting the assembly. The draft law under discussion is intended to regulate the conduct of the outdoor meetings and its core explicitly establishes that the authorities must ensure the absolute exercise of the right of assembly. Priority for the Police is the smooth running of the meeting, while the provision for dissolution concerns very specific conditions regarding the protection of human life. As I said, the aim of the meetings is to communicate a matter and not to violently confront authorities or disagreers. In this context, anti-concentration restrictions are rightly envisaged, the meeting organiser is established. This person will act as a link between the participants and the Greek Police, with the aim of always facilitating its conduct. Many things have been heard here both in public consultation and in the work of the committee and, unfortunately, here today. There have been references to the junta, which do not honor the functioning of this House, when the draft law under discussion comes to replace provisions in force since 1971, which you have not dared to abolish, as a government, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, nor have you proposed the revision of Article 11 of the Constitution - I suppose because you considered that it was not necessary - but you have used the existing framework to dismantle the rallys for Macedonia. I'm actually coming back. Greece is the only European country that has no framework for regulating meetings. For years it has also been cultivated the culture that the demonstration is being held against or against the police authorities. However, the presence of the police at a meeting is primarily to protect the participants in it and their right to meet. The existence of an organisational person and other provisions of the draft law will help to overcome backward perceptions and, at the same time, to protect minorities and vulnerable groups in particular. As the Prime Minister and the Minister have said many times, the aim of the draft law is to protect rights from arbitraryness. As far as Part II is concerned, a number of issues are dealt with which require legislative intervention. I know Article 20, which extends the beneficial provisions concerning wives, soldiers and teachers, covering both the Greek Police and the Fire Corps. We must support the institution of the family, in particular this difficult period, where many households are tested because of its pandemic and impact. Finally, on the one hand, I welcome the constructive opposition on the part of the Change Movement, on the other hand, to the improvements tabled by the Minister and I urge the House to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u484	Thank you. Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy has the floor and we are completing the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u485	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the past few days, but also during the debate, I regret to hear some colleagues speak about the jungles and the encryptionist logic. And you know what impressed me? The convenience some of the dividing lines put: "We are the morals, the good, the democratics and you are the immoral, the bad and the fascists." We and the others across the street! Do you realize that you're sowing the split or do you not care? You returned to the punctual memory socialist lines "The people do not forget what it means right". In fact, some have even arrived until occupation. You know, if there's anything positive about the left-wing country rule, it's just that it went through power. And now the people have an opinion and a memory for everyone. So he doesn't forget and he knows how to choose. That's why you're where you are. Finally let some people be serious and see that we have a responsibility towards the Greek people. Why this attack? Because we decided to do the self-evident thing? To turn Athens into a European capital that will not paralyse and will not look like a war zone every time we have a course? I wonder if some people are fond of these practices of anarchy and destruction of the legal state. Because how else can I explain this infatuation against the bill? Ladies and gentlemen, what is the purpose of this legislative intervention? It is the deterrent of the hostage of the centre of Athens and the major cities from marches and diversions that cause groups that enter the protests. It's over and over! Our Constitution, however, is not selective. It does not recognise specific rights in specific groups. All rights owe equal protection because against the law we are all equal. Clearly, it is an inalienable right for anyone who wants to be able to protest and express their displeasure and opposition. I do not understand, however, why the right to protest should be considered more important than the right of the owner of a store to protect his property or from the right to free movement of the parent, who wants to take his child quickly to the doctor, and why can't the center be unacceptable? It must be understood to everyone that this bill and its limitations do not concern those who are meeting to protest peacefully. They are those who every time expect a course to break them because they think they will protest. It is about those few who stop thousands from going to their jobs, to their homes or to take a walk. Furthermore, I believe that the Minister has taken important steps of goodwill to include opposition and reflections, because that also requires the serious problems of our society, dialogue and consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this bill doing? He's just making rules. Because they can't protest thirty people and close the Stadium Street or Syntagma Square. Because they can't break and burn the stores every time. After all, what is the institutional role of the Ministry, Minister? Isn't it to protect the citizen? That's exactly what he's doing through this bill. In what way? By nominating an organiser of the meeting who has to report to the police and, at the same time, appoint an ombudsman who is the link between the authorities and the organiser. In other words, it establishes an obligation to communicate between protesters and police through these two representatives. What's wrong with that? The bad news is he's putting order. And some people who have spent their lives in decency and generally in bulk situations don't want it. But let them relax. For the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is determined to bring the country back to progress and prosperity. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to stress that, as far as democracy protects the right of assembly, it must also protect the citizen's right to move freely in the centre of the capital, the professional to work unrestrictedly and the shopkeeper does not live with the nightmare of another demonstration that the shop will close. Then and only then will we be talking about real democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u486	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-08-S1-commons.u487	With the agreement of the House at 0.16 p.m. the meeting for the day, Thursday, 9 July 2020 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work, is to continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Public outdoor meetings and other provisions".
